CITY CODE
of
HELENA, MONTANA
1979
Code current through:
Ord. 3323, passed July 15, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This City Code of the City of Helena, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 3323, passed July 15, 2024. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this City
Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2261
AN ORDINANCE FOR THE CODIFICATION AND REVISION OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
HELENA, MONTANA, PRESENTLY CODIFIED IN TITLES I THROUGH XII OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE OF THE CITY OF HELENA, MONTANA.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF HELENA, MONTANA:
   Section 1. That Titles I through XII of the existing Helena Municipal Code
are hereby codified and revised into Titles I through XII of the Municipal Code
of the City of Helena, Montana, 1979.
   Section 2. This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after its
second passage by the Helena City Commission.
   Section 3. Ordinance No. 2138 of the City of Helena is hereby repealed.
   Section 4. From and after the effective date of this Ordinance, the 1962
codification of the City of Helena ordinances shall be in no further force and
effect.
   Section 5. That upon the effective date of this Ordinance, a copy of the
Code Book adopted hereby shall be kept in the office of the Clerk of the Helena
City Commission.
FIRST PASSED BY THE COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF HELENA, MONTANA, THIS 4th DAY OF
October, 1982.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1999.png]
ATTEST:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2001.png]
FINALLY PASSED BY THE COMMISSION OF HELENA, MONTANA, THIS 18th DAY OF October,
1982.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2003.png]
ATTEST:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2005.png]
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
EFFECT OF CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1:   Title
1-1-2:   Acceptance
1-1-3:   Amendments
1-1-4:   Construction Of Words
1-1-5:   Definitions
1-1-1: TITLE:
This compilation and recodification of the general ordinances of the city of
Helena, Montana, is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the
official Helena city code. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same under its
appropriate title heading, its chapter heading, and its section heading, and to
the general penalty clause thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal document. (Ord. 2905, 2-
26-2001)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of a general and permanent effect of the city. (Ord.
2905, 2-26-2001)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. This code will be
updated at regular intervals and no less frequently than each quarter. (Ord.
2905, 2-26-2001)
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females, as well as
males, and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to any section of this code
unless the content of any section makes such definition inapplicable thereto:
   NOTICE OR PUBLIC NOTICE: Unless otherwise specifically defined in a
particular context, this shall be satisfied by publishing pursuant to Montana
Code Annotated section 7-1-4127.
   OFFICER: Shall include officers, boards, and members of such boards. The
words "city" or "clerk", or other such titles shall mean the "city of Helena,
Montana", or "clerk of the commission", or other city officer as to which the
use may be applicable.
   PERSON: Shall be deemed to include any individual, firm, association,
corporation or any organization of any kind.
All other terms, unless specifically defined, shall be given their ordinary
meaning. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1:   Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2:   Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3:   Pending Suits
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except:
   A.   Such as are referred to herein as being still in force or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following section);
   B.   The following ordinances: tax levy ordinances, appropriation
ordinances, ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations, franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations, contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, salary ordinances, ordinances
establishing, naming, designating as one way or vacating streets, alleys, parks
or other public places, improvement ordinances, bond ordinances, ordinances
relating to elections, ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city, ordinances relating to the operation of city-
county buildings, property, airports, or other improvements, and all special
ordinances except as this code may contain provisions for such matters in which
case such provisions of this code on taking effect shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only;
   C.   All ordinances codified in title 11 (zoning) of this code and title 12
(subdivisions) of this code.
All ordinances referred to in subsections A, B and C of this section are not
repealed and shall remain in full force and effect. (1962 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provision for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1962 Code)
1-2-3: PENDING SUITS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provision
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the municipality herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision
thereof in force at the time of adoption of this code. (1962 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-3-1:   General Penalty
1-3-2:   Default
1-3-3:   License
1-3-4:   Applications
1-3-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code for which no
penalty is specifically provided shall be fined in a sum not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and such person may be confined
in the Lewis and Clark County detention center for a period of not more than
six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed. (Ord.
2905, 2-26-2001)
1-3-2: DEFAULT:
Any person wilfully in default of payment of any fine imposed shall be
imprisoned in the Lewis and Clark County detention center until the fine amount
is discharged at the daily rate charged for incarceration. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-
2001)
1-3-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to that person by the city may be revoked by the
court or by the commission in the manner provided for revocation of such a
license by this code or, in the absence of specific provisions therefor, may be
revoked by specific order of the commission. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-3-4: APPLICATIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code, where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any act which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
1-4-1:   Official Newspaper
1-4-2:   City Seal Description
1-4-3:   Facsimile
1-4-4:   Designation
1-4-5:   Reports
1-4-6:   Interest
1-4-7:   City Limits
1-4-8:   Meetings Of Commission
1-4-9:   Certain Contracts, Letting To Lowest Responsible Bidder
1-4-10:   Citizen Council Districts
1-4-11:   Reserved
1-4-12:   Payment Of Taxes And Assessments As Conditions
1-4-13:   Bid Security Required
1-4-14:   Change Orders
1-4-15:   Purchase Of Real Property
1-4-16:   State Law Superseded
1-4-17:   Sale, Disposal Or Lease Of Real Property
1-4-18:   Sale Or Disposal Of Surplus Personal Property
1-4-19:   Severability
1-4-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The daily "Independent Record" is hereby designated as the official newspaper
for all public advertising and publications of the city. No written contract
shall be necessary therefor until there is an additional daily newspaper in the
city for competitive bidding. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-2: CITY SEAL DESCRIPTION:
The seal of the city shall be in circular form with the words "City Of Helena,
Montana", on the outer circle, and in the interior and center of said circle,
the words "Lewis & Clark Co. 1881", with the figure of the city fire tower in
the center thereof. Said seal shall be used in all cases in which, by the laws
and customs of nations, it is necessary to use a seal by a municipal
corporation. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-3: FACSIMILE:
The facsimile of said seal is shown below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2007.png]
The city fire tower as depicted in the above seal is hereby designated as the
official symbol and emblem of the city. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-4: DESIGNATION:
The finance manager shall deposit the funds of the city from day to day in such
banks of the city as shall be designated by the commission as "city
depositories". No bank shall be designated as a city depository until it shall
have executed a bond to the city with sufficient sureties, or equivalent
security, approved by the commission, in an amount equal at least to the
largest amount at any time to be deposited in such bank as determined by the
finance manager. The commission shall have the power to direct the withdrawal
of all such monies from any such bank for any reason. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-5: REPORTS:
The president and cashier of every bank in which city funds are deposited
shall, monthly, make a full and complete verified statement of account showing
the amount of money which has been on deposit with the bank which they
represent during the quarter, and the amount of interest they have created,
allowed or paid to the finance manager on account of such deposit. Such
affidavit shall also contain a statement that no interest, consideration or
emolument, other than that prescribed by law has been paid by such depository
bank or any of its officers to the finance manager, or to any other person as
an inducement for the deposit or for continuing the same with such depository.
(Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-6: INTEREST:
All interest paid and collected on deposits shall be by the finance manager
credited to the general fund or to the appropriate fund from which the
investment was made. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-7: CITY LIMITS:
The city limits are as shown on the official map thereof retained in the office
of the director of public works as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-
2001)
1-4-8: MEETINGS OF COMMISSION:
The commission shall meet at least two (2) times each month. The mayor, any two
(2) members of the commission, or the manager, may call special meetings of the
commission upon at least twelve (12) hours' written notice to each member of
the commission served personally on each member or left at his usual place of
residence. All regular meetings of the commission shall be public and any
citizen shall have access to the minutes and records thereof at all reasonable
times. The commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall keep a journal of its proceedings. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-9: CERTAIN CONTRACTS, LETTING TO LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER:
For purposes of awarding bids to the lowest responsible bidder after
advertisement for bids, for any contract for the purchase of any automobile,
truck, other vehicle, road machinery, other machinery, apparatus, appliances or
equipment, for any materials or supplies of any kind, or for construction, for
which must be paid a sum exceeding twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), a
person shall not be deemed a responsible bidder if said person is delinquent in
the payment of property taxes or special improvement district assessment taxes
levied and assessed against said person, which taxes have been delinquent for a
period of six (6) months or more from the time bids are submitted.
If a person is not a responsible bidder as defined by this section, that person
shall not be eligible for the award of any contract or bid from the city.
This section in no way is an exclusive definition of the word "responsible" as
it appears in Montana state statutes. Instead, it in no way means to limit the
discretion and authority of the city to determine if a bidder is responsible on
grounds other than those addressed by the terms of this section. (Ord. 2905, 2-
26-2001)
1-4-10: CITIZEN COUNCIL DISTRICTS:
From and after the effective date hereof, the city shall be divided into seven
(7) citizen council districts. Each district's boundaries consist of those
voting precincts and portions of voting precincts located within the corporate
limits of the city of Helena. The precincts and portions of precincts that
comprise each district are shown below:
District Number Composed Of City Precinct Numbers
District Number Composed Of City Precinct Numbers
1               13, 14 and 26
2               8 and 17
3               22 and 25
4               6 and 24
5               4, 5 and 18
6               3, 7, 12 and 15
7               9, 16 and 20
 
(Ord. 3176, 6-10-2013)
1-4-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2966, 8-4-2003)
1-4-12: PAYMENT OF TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS AS CONDITIONS:
   A.   The taxes and assessments on the applicant's property, which is the
subject of the proposed action, must be paid or payment of said taxes and
assessments must be made a condition of final approval of said action by the
city commission, with the taxes and assessments to be paid within fourteen (14)
days after final passage. In the event the taxes and assessments are not paid,
the proposal will be brought back before the city commission at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. This section pertains to the following matters:
      1.   Conditional use permits;
      2.   Zone changes;
      3.   Land use variances;
      4.   Change in nonconforming use;
      5.   Amendments to zoning ordinance upon application of a specific
property owner; and
      6.   Subdivisions.
   B.   The taxes and assessments must be paid current on all property owned by
the applicant prior to city commission action on the following matters, or
payment of said taxes and assessments must be made a condition for final
approval of said action by the city commission:
      1.   Industrial development revenue bonds;
      2.   Tax increment financing requests; and
      3.   Community development block grant monies. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-13: BID SECURITY REQUIRED:
When soliciting bids, tenders or proposals as specified in section 7-5-4302,
Montana Code Annotated, the city may require bid security and set minimum and
maximum thresholds for such security for each bid, tender or proposal. (Ord.
2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-14: CHANGE ORDERS:
   A.   Intent: The city commission recognizes the need for construction
project budgets to provide for contingencies. The commission also finds that on
occasion other project costs are dependent on the final project amount,
including contingency expenditures. The commission recognizes that modifying or
amending contracts that increase the cost of the project after the bid has been
let is not a reasonable way to conduct the public competitive bidding process.
   B.   Contract Modification Procedure:
      1.   This section applies only to the following contracts:
         a.   Construction contracts awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
by the city after an advertised, competitive bid approved by the city
commission; and
         b.   Contracts for architectural, engineering, land surveying, legal,
consulting, and other professional or technical services that are procured
through an advertised request or solicitation and which are awarded by city
commission action.
      2.   Contracts described in this section may only be modified by a change
order as provided for in this section, even though the change order may
decrease the original amount of the contract.
      3.   The city manager or his designated representative may approve
contract modifications through change orders without first obtaining city
commission approval in the following circumstances:
         a.   If the change order varies the quantity of an item or material
for which the contract specifies a unit price, and the variance does not
increase the quantity specified in the contract by more than twenty five
percent (25%);
         b.   If the change order improves the quality of the project without
increasing the total contract bid award; or
         c.   If the change order is necessitated by conditions, emergencies,
or circumstances unforeseen at the time of the contract award, the amount of
the change order, together with all other change orders on that project, does
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the amount of the contract, and the change does
not substantially alter the original design or the project scope.
      4.   All other contract change orders, including changes in the
aesthetics of the project design, additional landscaping beyond that specified
by the original design, quality upgrade changes in materials that increases the
total contract price, and other nonemergency, foreseeable changes require
approval of the city commission prior to modifying the contract, and the
commission's authorization for the expenditure of additional funding, if
needed. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-15: PURCHASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
The city may only purchase real property after approval by the commission under
the following procedure:
   A.   When the estimated value of the property is less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), the city manager or the manager's designee may
negotiate a favorable purchase price on behalf of the city without first
obtaining an appraisal of the property. The proposed purchase must be brought
to the commission for approval. The city commission shall be provided with
sufficient information showing how the recommended purchase price compares with
the estimated fair market value of the property.
   B.   When the estimated value of the property is one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) or more, the city manager or the manager's designee may
negotiate a favorable purchase price on behalf of the city. After the city
manager has reached an agreement with the seller as to a purchase price
contingent upon approval by the commission, the city manager shall cause an
appraisal of the property to be done by a qualified, licensed appraiser. If the
proposed purchase price is more than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00), the city manager shall have the property appraised by two (2)
qualified, licensed appraisers who shall each independently appraise the
property without consultation or corroboration with the other as to the finding
of an appraised value. If the proposed purchase price is greater than the
appraised value, the city manager shall renegotiate with the seller. After all
negotiations are concluded, the proposed purchase must be brought to the
commission for approval. The city manager or the manager's designee shall
provide the commission with the results of the negotiation and the appraised
value. The commission may approve the purchase even though the purchase price
differs from the appraised value.
   C.   The commission may waive the requirements of this section or revise the
procedure upon a finding that the procedures in this section will prevent the
purchase from occurring or that the procedure is not in the best interest of
the city. This section does not apply to property purchased with funds from the
general obligations bonds (open space bonds) issued pursuant to resolution
11034, dated July 22, 1996, in the amount of five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) for, among other purposes, acquiring and constructing
recreational fields and facilities; walking, running, and biking trails; open
space lands or interest therein (in or near the city); and park and
recreational areas. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-4-16: STATE LAW SUPERSEDED:
Pursuant to the city's self-government powers, sections 7-5-4307, 7-8-101, and
7-8-4201, Montana Code Annotated, dealing with the sale, lease or disposal of
city property, are hereby superseded. (Ord. 2909, 6-4-2001)
1-4-17: SALE, DISPOSAL OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Real property in which the city has a legal or equitable interest may
not be sold, leased for a period of longer than ten (10) years, or disposed of,
nor any option or contract for the sale, lease, or disposition of the same may
be entered into, except as provided herein. Subject to the provisions of this
subsection, the city commission may sell, lease, or dispose of any real
property belonging to the city, including property held in trust for a specific
purpose, by a resolution passed by three (3) of the city commission members
present. Prior to selling, leasing for a period of longer than ten (10) years,
or disposing of said real property, except for real property the city has
acquired by tax deed from the county after a tax sale, the city manager or the
manager's designee shall:
      1.   Publish notice twice, in the legal newspaper, of the city's
intention to sell, lease for a period of longer than ten (10) years, or dispose
of real property, giving the public the opportunity to be heard regarding such
action. Said notice shall be published in accordance with state law.
      2.   Notify by mail all property owners within three hundred feet (300')
of the exterior boundaries of the real property subject to sale, lease for a
period of longer than ten (10) years, or disposal at same time as first
publication, of the time, date, and place of the public hearing and the
existing and proposed use of the property.
      3.   For property with an expected sale price of more than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00), have the property appraised by two (2)
qualified, licensed appraisers who shall each independently appraise the
property without consultation or corroboration with the other as to the finding
of an appraised value. These appraisals shall be obtained prior to providing
the public notices required in subsections A1 and A2 of this section and the
results of the appraisals shall be included in the public notices.
   B.   Real property acquired by the city by tax deed from the county may be
sold, leased or disposed of according to law without regard to this section.
   C.   Leases of real property, in which the city has a legal or equitable
interest, for terms of less than ten (10) years are not subject to the public
notice or notification of adjacent property owners requirements of subsections
A1 and A2 of this section. Leases of real property for terms of less than ten
(10) years may be approved by the commission as consent agenda items. (Ord.
3221, 9-26-2016)
1-4-18: SALE OR DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   "Surplus personal property" is any tangible personal property owned by
the city that is not needed at present or in the foreseeable future or that is
no longer of value or use to the city.
   B.   Prior to sale or disposal of personal property with an original value
equal to or greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the city commission
shall, by resolution, declare the property to be surplus to the needs of the
city and eligible for disposition. The surplus designation must be done in a
manner that is in the city's best interest and pursuant to, but not limited to:
      1.   Possible future requirements of the city;
      2.   Present value of the property;
      3.   Likelihood of locating a buyer;
      4.   Intergovernmental cooperation; and
      5.   The general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   C.   For disposition of personal property with an original value equal to or
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) the city commission shall, by
resolution, direct the city manager as to the authorized method of disposition.
If the city manager is unable to dispose of the personal property by one of the
methods specified by resolution, the city manager shall notify the city
commission and recommend further action. The city commission will then direct
disposition of the surplus property by amendment of the authorizing resolution.
   D.   Personal property with an original value of less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) may be eligible for disposition by the city manager using
the following methods without approval by the city commission. The city manager
may authorize disposal of surplus property with an original value of less than
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) only by one of the approved methods listed
below:
      1.   Competitive sale to a responsible purchaser after providing public
notice and public opportunity for the purchase of the property, including
public auction, solicitation of written bids, and negotiated sale to one or
more designated buyers.
      2.   Trade in on new supplies or equipment at such value as will result
in the lowest net price.
      3.   Transfer to another government agency at or below market value.
      4.   Transfer to a 501(c)3 tax exempt, nonprofit organization.
      5.   Proper disposal in a landfill of personal property with no value.
   E.   Disposition by the city manager of personal property with an original
value of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), other than by the methods
listed above, must be approved by the city commission by resolution. (Ord.
3218, 4-11-2016)
1-4-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other
provisions of this chapter which may be given effect without the invalid
provisions or application and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
declared to be severable. (Ord. 2909, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 5
TAXATION AND REVENUE
SECTION:
1-5-1:   Revenues; Current Expenses; Bonded Indebtedness
1-5-2:   General Fund
1-5-3:   Transfer Of Funds
1-5-4:   Monthly Reports
1-5-5:   Special Improvement District Taxes
1-5-6:   Special Improvement Districts
1-5-7:   Capital Improvement Program
1-5-8:   Annual Maintenance Assessment For Tree Planting And Maintenance
District No. 1
1-5-9:   Fee And Charge Amounts
1-5-10:   Special Assessment Splits
1-5-1: REVENUES; CURRENT EXPENSES; BONDED INDEBTEDNESS:
All monies received by the city from taxes levied for municipal and
administrative purposes, from liquor licenses and from each and every license
of every name, description and kind, granted by the city and the amounts of all
fines and penalties received for the violation of any of the provisions of this
code and all monies now on hand, not otherwise appropriated, and all other
monies not designated by law for any other fund, are hereby set aside for the
current expenses of the standing bonded indebtedness and any sinking funds
therein provided for, and are hereby set aside and placed in the respective
funds hereinafter created, named and designated. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-2: GENERAL FUND:
The general fund of the city shall consist of all monies now in the fund and of
all monies received from taxes levied for the general fund, for the current
fiscal year, of all monies received from impounded stock, sewer permits,
rentals and all revenues from all sources, exclusive of revenues from taxation
and monies received that may properly belong to special funds of the city, and
all of such other monies as may from time to time be transferred to the said
fund by resolution of the commission. Upon the general fund, warrants may be
drawn to defray miscellaneous expenses of the city and when directed by the
commission, the treasurer shall, out of the general fund, pay such outstanding
bonds as may be redeemable. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-3: TRANSFER OF FUNDS:
The commission may by resolution from time to time transfer from one fund to
another all monies in the treasury received from licenses, fines and penalties,
but monies collected as taxes levied for specific purposes shall not be
diverted from the purposes for which the same were levied. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-
2001)
1-5-4: MONTHLY REPORTS:
It shall be the duty of the finance manager to present to the commission, not
later than the second Monday of each month, a report in writing, giving a
statement of all warrants drawn during the previous calendar month, and the
fund upon which they were drawn respectively, and the amount of the balances on
hand in the said respective funds. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-5: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT TAXES:
It shall be the duty of the commission to annually levy an assessment and tax
for the payment of the principal and interest of all special improvement
district and sewer warrants, which may be issued by order of the commission.
(Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-6: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS:
Whenever a special improvement district or sewer district is created by the
city for the purpose of construction of sewers or improving the streets, alleys
and highways of said district, or opening, changing or altering any streets,
alleys or highways within the limits of said district, it shall be the duty of
the finance manager to have charge of the preparation and classification; the
mailing of notices of such assessments to property owners and all other duties
connected therewith; the collection of such assessments as are payable directly
to the city; and the preparation and certification of all unpaid assessments to
the county treasurer for collection. The finance manager shall administer the
said special improvement district in accordance with and in the manner
prescribed by state law. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-7: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   It is the intention of this city to adopt a capital improvement program
and earmark revenue for said program as contemplated by section 7-6-616,
Montana Code Annotated. The capital improvement program shall be a plan for
capital expenditures to be incurred each year over a fixed period of years to
meet capital needs arising from long term work programs. It shall set forth
each project, or other contemplated expenditure in which the city is to have a
part, and shall specify the full resources estimated to be available to finance
the projected expenditures.
   B.   A sum not to exceed five percent (5%) of the money received from the
all purpose mill levy may be set aside and placed in a separate fund known as
the capital improvement program fund, earmarked for the replacement and
acquisition of property, plan and equipment costing in excess of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) and with a life expectancy of five (5) years or more.
   C.   Money in the capital improvement program fund may be deposited in
savings or time deposits in a state or national bank, insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, or in direct obligations of the United States
government, as seems most appropriate with a view to maintaining the principal
of said fund and earning the maximum rate of interest consistent with such
preservation.
   D.   Money in the capital improvement program fund may only be used for the
purposes listed in section 7-6-616, Montana Code Annotated, and in subsection B
of this section. Prior to final adoption of a budget each year, the city
manager shall present to the commission a proposal for the expenditure of any
or all of the monies held in the capital improvement program fund. The program
shall provide for the improvement, replacement or extension of capital
improvements existing as of the date hereof, or the construction or purchase of
new improvements or capital equipment. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-8: ANNUAL MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT FOR TREE PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
NO. 1:
In determining and levying the annual maintenance assessment for tree planting
and maintenance district no. 1, the following procedure must be used in
conjunction with the requirements of state law:
   A.   To levy the annual maintenance assessment, the commission shall first
pass a resolution of intention to levy and assess property in the district for
the annual maintenance cost. The resolution of intention must describe the
method of assessment, which must be based upon the method or methods set forth
in sections 7-12-4161 through 7-12-4165, Montana Code Annotated. The resolution
of intention need not individually describe each lot and parcel to be assessed
nor identify the owner of each lot or parcel. The resolution of intention must
be kept in the office of the clerk of the commission and be subject to
inspection by the general public for a period of no less than ten (10) days
prior to adoption of a final resolution levying a maintenance assessment for
the district.
   B.   After passage of the resolution of intention to levy and assess, the
clerk of the commission shall cause a notice of passage of the resolution of
intention to be published in the official newspaper for the city. The notice
shall be published twice with at least six (6) days separating each
publication. The first publication shall be no more than twenty one (21) days
prior to the action and the last no less than three (3) days prior to the
action. The published notice shall contain the date, time and place that the
hearing will occur; a brief statement that the commission intends to set the
levy for an annual maintenance assessment; and the address and telephone number
of the person who can be contacted for further information.
   C.   After conducting the public hearing and passing upon any objections,
the city commission may pass a resolution levying a maintenance assessment for
tree planting and maintenance district no. 1.
   D.   Section 7-12-4177, Montana Code Annotated, is superseded only to the
extent it may be inconsistent with this section. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
1-5-9: FEE AND CHARGE AMOUNTS:
The specific amount of any fees and charges imposed by city ordinance will be
established and adjusted by the commission in the manner provided in title 7,
chapter 5, part 1 of the Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-
15-2013)
1-5-10: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT SPLITS:
   A.   Definitions:
      SPECIAL ASSESSMENT: An assessment upon property located within a special
improvement district created by the city.
      SPECIAL ASSESSMENT SPLIT: The changing of a special assessment upon a
subject property due to a subdivision of a subject property by the owner.
   B.   Application: Every person desiring a special assessment split on any
property shall make application therefor to the city engineer and shall provide
the following information on a form furnished by the city engineer:
      1.   The legal description of the properties.
      2.   The tax numbers of the subject properties, as provided by the Lewis
And Clark County assessor.
      3.   The square footages of the subject properties.
      4.   The front footages of the subject properties.
      5.   The special assessments to be split.
      6.   Information as to whether the assessment split is for immediate
prepayment on special assessments or for new special assessments on the split
properties.
      7.   The names of the current and proposed owners of the subject
properties.
      8.   The water and/or sewer stub outs that are part of the SID. (Ord.
2905, 2-26-2001)
   C.   Collection Of Fees: The city engineer shall collect nonrefundable fees
to cover costs of processing the special assessment split application. (Ord.
3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   D.   Special Assessment Costs: The city engineer is instructed to split the
special assessment costs as follows:
      1.   The assessment split shall be made on the same basis as the original
district assessment (i.e., square footage, linear footage, etc.).
      2.   The assessment against the subject property on a new subdivision
shall be assessed at the same rate as the original district.
      3.   If the total area of the assessed subject properties is decreased
due to the dedication of a new public tract for streets, parks, etc., or due to
the adjustment of the boundaries of existing dedicated public tracts, then the
original special assessment against the decreased subject property area shall
be prepaid by the property owner.
      4.   If a new subdivision creates a lot that would be served by two (2)
sets of water and/or sewer services which are part of the original special
assessment, then prepayment of the total assessment for one of the sets of
sewer and/or water services will be required. This prepayment by the owner must
be made before approval of the new subdivision by the city engineer.
      5.   The boundary lines of the property to be assessed shall be the same
as the original tract.
      6.   No prepayment of special assessments will be accepted until all of
the information in subsection B of this section is provided.
   E.   Special Assessment Lien: No new subdivision or amended plat that has a
special assessment lien will be approved by the city engineer until the
assessment splits affecting said subdivision have been applied for as set forth
in subsection B of this section, and paid for as set forth in subsection C of
this section.
   F.   Existing Subdivisions: On existing subdivisions, no change will be
noted on the tax rolls until the assessment split has been requested and paid
for by the affected property owners. (Ord. 2905, 2-26-2001)
CHAPTER 6
RECORDS AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-6-1:   Purpose
1-6-2:   Definitions
1-6-3:   Program Established
1-6-4:   City Records Declared Public Property
1-6-5:   Records Advisory Committee
1-6-6:   Records Manager
1-6-7:   Recovery Of City Records
1-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create a records and information management
program for the city of Helena and establish the duties and responsibilities of
city personnel with respect to city records. This chapter provides for
efficient, economical, and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all city records through a
comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of records
from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of law. (Ord. 3077, 3-12-2007)
1-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CITY RECORDS: All papers, correspondence, forms, books, photographs,
microfilm, magnetic tape, computer storage media, maps, drawings, or other
documents, including copies required by law to be kept as part of the official
record, regardless of physical form or characteristics, that have been made or
received by the city to document the transaction of official business, are
public writings pursuant to law, and are designated for retention by the local
government records committee, and all other records or documents required by
law to be filed with or kept by any department of the city of Helena. The term
includes electronic mail sent or received in connection with the transaction of
official duties, which can be brief notes, formal correspondence, substantive
narrative documents, and any attachments such as word processing, spreadsheets,
and other formats that are transmitted with the message. It does not include
any paper, correspondence, form, book, photograph, microfilm, magnetic tape,
computer storage media, map, drawing, or other type of document that is for
reference purposes only, or preliminary drafts, telephone message slips,
routing slips, stock of publications or preprinted forms, or any superseded
publications.
   RECORDS AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT: The application of management techniques
to the creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation, and disposal of
records for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
record keeping. This includes the development of records retention schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
vital records, the preservation of permanent records, the economical and space
effective storage of inactive records, control over the creation and
distribution of forms, reports, and correspondence, and the management of
micrographic, electronic, and other records storage systems. It is the
systematic control of city records from their creation or receipt to their
final preservation or destruction. (Ord. 3077, 3-12-2007)
1-6-3: PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
   A.   A records and information management program is hereby established. The
city manager is responsible for directing and approving the program.
   B.   The records and information management program is binding on all
offices, departments, divisions, programs, boards, commissions, committees, or
similar entities of the city, and records will be created, maintained, and
disposed of in accordance with the program. (Ord. 3077, 3-12-2007)
1-6-4: CITY RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY:
All city records are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No city
official or employee has, by virtue of position, any personal or property right
to such records even though that person may have developed or compiled them.
The unauthorized destruction, removal from files, or use of such records is
prohibited. Any custodian of any public records shall, at the expiration of
appointment or employment, deliver to a successor, or if there be none, to the
clerk of the commission, all books, writings, letters, documents, public
information, or other information, recorded on any medium, or created, kept, or
received in the transaction of official business. (Ord. 3077, 3-12-2007)
1-6-5: RECORDS ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
A records advisory committee, consisting of the clerk of the commission, a
representative from the city attorney's office, and the clerk of municipal
court, is hereby established. The committee shall:
   A.   Assist the records manager in the development and administration of the
records and information management program.
   B.   Prepare records and information management policies, systems, standards
and procedures for approval by the city manager.
   C.   Review the performance of the program on a biennial basis and propose
changes and improvements if needed.
   D.   Review and approve records retention schedules and amendments thereto
as submitted by the records manager.
   E.   Give recommendations to the city commission for the destruction of
records in accordance with approved records retention schedules.
   F.   Actively support and promote the records and information management
program throughout the city. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
1-6-6: RECORDS MANAGER:
The clerk of the commission is designated as the records manager. The records
manager will administer the records and information management program pursuant
to policies, standards, and procedures recommended by the records advisory
committee and approved by the city manager. The records manager will provide
the direction and control for the city's records retention and disposition, and
provide assistance to the departments in their implementation. The records
manager will provide reports regarding the program to the city manager. (Ord.
3077, 3-12-2007)
1-6-7: RECOVERY OF CITY RECORDS:
The city attorney may take steps to recover local government records that have
been removed or wrongfully retained from proper custody and may, when
necessary, institute actions of records recovery on behalf of the city. (Ord.
3077, 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT COST RECOVERY
SECTION:
1-7-1:   Title
1-7-2:   Intent And Purpose
1-7-3:   Definitions
1-7-4:   Exception To Liability For Costs
1-7-5:   Liability For Costs
1-7-6:   Methods Of Enforcement
1-7-7:   Conflict With Other Laws
1-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter is known and cited as the HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT COST
RECOVERY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 3141, 12-6-2010)
1-7-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to provide for the recovery of costs incurred in the
emergency response to hazardous materials incidents. (Ord. 3141, 12-6-2010)
1-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meaning
indicated unless the context requires otherwise:
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE: The provision of authorized assistance during and
following a hazardous materials incident.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed. This includes materials defined as hazardous
by the United States environmental protection agency and the Montana department
of environmental quality.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT: Actual or threatened release of a hazardous
material, which poses an imminent threat to the environment or the public
health or safety and requires emergency response.
   RELEASE: The accidental or intentional, sudden or gradual spilling, leaking,
pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping,
leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment, whether such release
occurs from a fixed facility or while hazardous materials are being
transported.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A person or persons who cause or allow a release of a
hazardous material or who had custody or control of the hazardous material at
the time of such release.
   SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFICIAL PROJECTS: Projects that a responsible party agrees
to undertake to benefit the city's emergency response capability or mitigate
future hazards but is not otherwise legally required to perform. (Ord. 3141,
12-6-2010)
1-7-4: EXCEPTION TO LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
The authority to recover costs under this chapter does not include costs
incurred for routine firefighting procedures that are normally or usually
provided within the city by its fire department or authorized agents. (Ord.
3141, 12-6-2010)
1-7-5: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   A responsible party is liable to reimburse the city for all costs
incurred by the city or its agents for emergency response to a hazardous
materials incident.
   B.   The city may present a claim to the responsible party for reimbursement
of the costs of responding to a hazardous materials incident.
   C.   Costs will be calculated using the following methodology:
      1.   Actual cost of equipment and materials, including shipping, for
equipment and materials that are damaged or spoiled and that cannot be
decontaminated or used again.
      2.   Actual cost of equipment rental, laboratory costs, and materials
disposal.
      3.   Personnel and administrative costs at a rate set by resolution
approved by the city commission.
      4.   Equipment costs at a rate set by resolution approved by the city
commission. (Ord. 3141, 12-6-2010)
1-7-6: METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city may enter into an agreement with the responsible party for
remedial actions such as supplemental beneficial projects ("SBP") in lieu of
monetary payment for a hazardous materials incident.
   B.   The city may enforce this chapter by civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the collection of any costs attributable to a
hazardous materials incident, plus administrative collection costs, attorney
fees, or for any other relief as may be appropriate. (Ord. 3141, 12-6-2010)
1-7-7: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
This chapter does not restrict or replace hazardous materials incident cost
recovery from other funding sources available under state or federal
regulations. (Ord. 3141, 12-6-2010)
CHAPTER 8
ILLEGAL DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
1-8-1:   Intent And Purpose
1-8-2:   Definitions
1-8-3:   Employment Discrimination Prohibited
1-8-4:   Discrimination In Public Accommodations Prohibited
1-8-5:   Housing Discrimination Prohibited
1-8-6:   Retaliation Prohibited
1-8-7:   Violation; Civil Remedy; Exhaustion Of Human Rights Bureau Remedy
1-8-8:   Severability
1-8-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
State and/or federal law prohibits the denial of civil rights or discrimination
on the basis of age, race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, creed,
sex, pregnancy, marital status, familial status (solely for housing), and
physical or mental disability. In addition to these protections, it is the
intent of the city of Helena that no person shall be denied his or her civil
rights or be discriminated against based upon his or her sexual orientation or
gender identity or expression.
The city commission declares that such discrimination prohibitions are
necessary and desirable because existing state and federal laws regarding
discrimination do not expressly or clearly address all discriminatory acts
reported by the city's diverse residents. Therefore, the city deems it
necessary to adopt local regulations adapted to the needs of its citizens.
Nothing in this chapter is intended, however, to conflict with such state and
federal laws, or to alter or abridge other rights, protections, or privileges
secured by state or federal law, including state and federal constitutional
protections of freedom of speech and exercise of religion. (Ord. 3162, 12-17-
2012)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
   DISCRIMINATION: "Discrimination", "discriminate" or "discriminatory" means
any act, policy, or practice that has the effect of unfavorably subjecting any
person to different or separate treatment on the basis of their sexual
orientation or gender identity or expression, or because of their association
with a person or group of people so identified. "Discrimination",
"discriminate" or "discriminatory" also means any act, policy, or practice that
has the effect of unfavorably subjecting any person to different or separate
treatment on the belief that a person has a particular sexual orientation or
gender identity or expression, even if that belief is incorrect.
   EMPLOYEE: An individual employed by an employer.
   EMPLOYER: An employer of one or more persons or an agent of the employer,
but not including a fraternal, charitable, or religious association or
corporation unless the association or corporation is organized either for
private profit or to provide accommodations or services that are available on a
nonmembership basis.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: A person undertaking to procure employees or
opportunities to work.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION: A gender related identity, expression, or
behavior, regardless of the individual's sex at birth.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: A building or portion of a building, whether
constructed or to be constructed, that is or will be used as the home,
domicile, residence, or sleeping quarters of its occupants.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization or an agent of an organization organized
for the purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining, of dealing with
employers concerning grievances or terms or conditions of employment, or of
other mutual aid and protection of employees.
   PERSON: One or more individuals, labor unions, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies,
trusts, unincorporated employees' associations, employers, employment agencies,
organizations, or labor organizations.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place that caters or offers its services, goods, or
facilities to the general public, subject only to the conditions and
limitations established by law and applicable to all persons. It includes,
without limitation, a public inn, restaurant, eating house, hotel, roadhouse,
place where food or alcoholic beverages or malt liquors are sold for
consumption, motel, soda fountain, soft drink parlor, tavern, nightclub,
trailer park, resort, campground, barbering, cosmetology, electrology,
aesthetics, or manicuring salon or shop, bathroom, rest house, theater,
swimming pool, skating rink, golf course, cafe, ice cream parlor,
transportation company, hospital, and all other public amusement and business
establishments.
Public accommodation does not include an institution, club, or place of
accommodation that proves that it is, by its nature, distinctly private. An
institution, club, or place of accommodation may not be considered by its
nature distinctly private if it has more than one hundred (100) members,
provides regular meal service, and regularly receives payment for dues, fees,
use of space, facilities, services, meals, or beverages, directly or
indirectly, from or on behalf of nonmembers, for the furtherance of trade or
business. For the purposes of this definition, any lodge of a recognized
national fraternal organization is considered by its nature distinctly private.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION: Heterosexuality, bisexuality, or homosexuality. (Ord.
3162, 12-17-2012)
1-8-3: EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   No employer shall discriminate in the employment, failure to hire,
refusal to hire, compensation, work classification, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment, including promotion, demotion, or termination of
employment.
   B.   No employer shall fail or refuse to refer for employment, or give
negative information to a potential employer of an individual, in such a manner
that would deprive or limit an individual's employment opportunities or that
would otherwise adversely affect an individual's status as an applicant or
prospective employee, for a discriminatory reason.
   C.   No labor organization shall discriminate in limiting membership,
conditions of membership, or termination of membership of any person in any
labor union or apprenticeship program.
   D.   No employment agency shall discriminate in the procurement or
recruitment of any person for possible employment with an employer. (Ord. 3162,
12-17-2012)
1-8-4: DISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for a place of public accommodation to deny, directly or
indirectly, any person full and equal access or enjoyment of the goods,
services, activities, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations
for a discriminatory reason. (Ord. 3224, 1-9-2017)
1-8-5: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, owner, manager, employee, or any entity whose
business includes engaging in any residential real estate related transactions
to discriminate in the sale, lease or rental of any housing facility, or to
otherwise discriminate in the terms, conditions, maintenance, improvement, or
repair of any housing facility. The rental of sleeping rooms in a private
residence designed as a single dwelling unit in which the owner also resides is
excluded from this section provided that the owner rents no more than three (3)
sleeping rooms within the residence. (Ord. 3162, 12-17-2012)
1-8-6: RETALIATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall coerce, threaten, discharge, expel, blacklist, or otherwise
retaliate against another person for opposing any practices prohibited by this
chapter, making a complaint, or assisting in an investigation or proceeding
regarding an alleged violation of this chapter; nor shall any person require,
request, conspire with, assist, or coerce another person to retaliate against a
person for making a complaint or assisting in an investigation or proceeding.
(Ord. 3162, 12-17-2012)
1-8-7: VIOLATION; CIVIL REMEDY; EXHAUSTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS BUREAU REMEDY:
Any illegal discrimination specifically addressed by Montana state law shall be
submitted to the Montana department of labor and industry, human rights bureau,
pursuant to title 49, chapters 2 and 3, Montana Code Annotated (MCA), for
processing by the state of Montana.
Any person claiming a violation of this chapter may seek civil remedies,
injunctive relief, attorney fees or other equitable relief by petitioning the
Helena municipal court. Prior to the filing of any petition in Helena municipal
court under this chapter, a person must have:
   A.   Filed or sought to file a timely complaint with the Montana human
rights bureau alleging discrimination in employment, public accommodations or
housing, or retaliation; and
   B.   Received a written disposition of the complaint from the Montana human
rights bureau, Montana department of labor and industry hearings bureau,
Montana human rights commission, or any Montana court indicating that the acts
of alleged discrimination or retaliation underlying the complaint do not fall
within the scope of the Montana human rights act.
For purposes of this section, the term "timely" shall mean filed with the
Montana human rights bureau within the time frames set forth in section 49-2-
501, Montana Code Annotated.
Any person claiming a violation of this chapter must file a petition with the
Helena municipal court within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written
disposition referenced in subsection B of this section.
The initiation of or the granting of relief under a grievance procedure shall
not preclude or limit any other claims or remedies available under this
chapter. (Ord. 3162, 12-17-2012)
1-8-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city
commission hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, and words thereof, irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases or words have been declared invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any
reason this chapter should be declared invalid or unconstitutional, then the
remaining ordinance provisions will remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
3162, 12-17-2012)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICERS
CHAPTER 1
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
2-1-1:   Appointments
2-1-2:   Liability Of Officers
2-1-3:   Personnel Policies
2-1-4:   Immunity, Defense And Indemnification
2-1-5:   Exceptions
2-1-6:   Notice Required
2-1-7:   Severability
2-1-1: APPOINTMENTS:
The commission shall appoint a city manager 1 , a clerk of the city commission
and a deputy clerk. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  2-2-1 of this title.
2-1-2: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the commission to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord.
2910, 6-4-2001)
2-1-3: PERSONNEL POLICIES:
Officers and employees are governed by the personnel policies adopted by the
commission. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-1-4: IMMUNITY, DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
The Helena city commission hereby provides for specific immunity, defense and
indemnification of all public officers and employees of the city who are
subjected to any civil action brought against them for alleged violations of
article VIII, section 17 of the Montana constitution. In the event that any
civil action is brought against city officers or employees, the city shall
defend the action on behalf of the public officer or public employee and
indemnify the same for any liability resulting from any alleged violation of
article VIII, section 17 of the Montana constitution except as provided in
section
2-1-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-1-5: EXCEPTIONS:
In any civil action brought against a public officer or employee of the city
which names the officer or employee as a party defendant for alleged violations
of article VIII, section 17 of the Montana constitution, the officer or
employee will not be defended or indemnified by the city for any money
judgments or litigation expenses, including attorney fees, which may be
incurred by the officer or employee as a result of such a civil action if a
judicial determination is made that:
   A.   The conduct of the officer or employee upon which the alleged violation
of article VIII, section 17 of the Montana constitution is based constitutes
oppression, fraud or malice, or for any other reason such conduct does not
arise out of the course and scope of the officer's or employee's employment
with the city;
   B.   The officer or employee unilaterally compromised or settled the claim
without the consent of the city; or
   C.   The officer or employee failed or refused to reasonably cooperate in
the defense of the alleged violations.
If no judicial determination has been made applying any or all of the
exclusions noted above, the city may independently determine whether any of the
exclusions apply to a particular case. If there is a dispute between the city
and an officer or employee concerning whether any or all of the exclusions
apply, and the city determines that it should clarify its obligation to the
officer or employee as provided in section
2-1-4 of this chapter by commencing a declaratory action or other legal action,
the city remains obligated to provide indemnification and defense of the
officer or employee until such time as a final judgment is issued ruling that
the city has no such obligation to defend and indemnify the officer or
employee. However, the city has no obligation to represent or otherwise provide
a defense to any officer or employee in a declaratory action or other legal
action brought by the city and against the officer or employee in an effort to
determine the respective rights and obligations of the city and its officer or
employee. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-1-6: NOTICE REQUIRED:
Upon receipt of service of a summons and complaint against an officer or
employee of the city which alleges a violation of article VIII, section 17 of
the Montana constitution, the officer or employee shall give written notice to
the clerk of the commission, the city manager, and the city attorney requesting
that a defense to the action be provided by the city. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of sections
2-1-4 through
2-1-6 of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of those
sections which may be effective without the invalid provision or application
and, to this end, any provision of those sections is declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 2
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2-2-1:   Appointment
2-2-2:   Powers And Duties
2-2-3:   Salary
2-2-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city manager 1 , shall be the administrative head of the city government,
and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments.
The manager shall be appointed without regard to political beliefs, and may or
may not be a resident of the city when appointed. The commission may require
the manager to become a resident after appointment. The manager shall hold
office at the will of the commission. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  2-1-1 of this title.
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall have all of the powers and duties imposed by state law
and this code including the power to engage such officers and employees as are
necessary for administration of the city, and any other duties which the
commission may prescribe. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-2-3: SALARY:
The city manager shall receive such salary as may be fixed by the commission.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 3
DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
2-3-1:   Established
2-3-2:   Directors Of Departments
2-3-3:   Finance Department
2-3-4:   Community Development Department
2-3-5:   Fire Department
2-3-6:   Parks, Recreation, And Open Lands Department
2-3-7:   Police Department
2-3-8:   Public Works Department
2-3-9:   Transportation Systems Department
2-3-10:Community Facilities Department
2-3-11:   City Attorney Office
2-3-12:   Human Resources Office
2-3-13:   Duties Of Each Department
2-3-14:   Substitution
2-3-15: Bond
2-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
The city has the following departments:
A.   Finance;
B.   Community Development;
C.   Fire;
D.   Parks, Recreation, and Open Lands;
E.   Police;
F.   Public Works;
G.   Community Facilities; and
H.   Transportation Systems.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-2: DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS:
Each department shall be under the supervision of a director who shall be
appointed, directed, and supervised by the city manager. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-3-3: FINANCE DEPARTMENT:
The Finance department includes such divisions as may from time to time be
delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Budget and Finance;
   B.   Payment Services;
   C.   Accounting;
   D.   Public Finance and Debt Management;
   E.   Grant Administration and Contracts.
(Ord. 2927, 12-17-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-4: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:
The community development department shall include such divisions as may from
time to time be delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   A.   Building and safety;
   B.   Planning; and
   C.   Grants administration. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-3-5: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
The fire department shall include such divisions as may from time to time be
delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Fire and rescue services; and
   B.   Fire prevention and investigations. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-3-6: PARKS, RECREATION, AND OPEN LANDS DEPARTMENT:
The Parks, Recreation, and Open Lands department includes such divisions as may
from time to time be delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   A.   Parks and Recreation;
   B.   Open Lands;
   C.   Golf Course; and
   D.   Civic Center.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-7: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The police department shall include such divisions as may from time to time be
delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Criminal investigation;
   B.   Operations; and
   C.   Support services. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-3-8: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
The Public Works department includes such divisions as may from time to time be
delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   City Engineer;
   B.   Solid Waste;
   C.   Utility Systems Maintenance;
   D.   Water Treatment; and
   E.   Wastewater Treatment.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-9: TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS DEPARTMENT:
The Transportation Systems department includes such divisions as may from time
to time be delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Streets;
   B.   Shop and Fleet Services;
   C.   Transit;
   D.   Parking; and
   E.   Right-of-Way Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-10: COMMUNITY FACILITIES DEPARTMENT:
The Community Facilities department includes such divisions as may, from time
to time, be delegated to it by the city manager, including, but not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Construction Management; and
   B.   Building Maintenance.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-11: CITY ATTORNEY OFFICE:
The office of the city attorney shall be under the supervision of the city
attorney who shall be appointed and supervised by the city manager.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-12: HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICE:
The human resources office shall be under the supervision of the human resource
manager who shall be appointed and supervised by the city manager.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-13: DUTIES OF EACH DEPARTMENT:
Each department shall have such duties and responsibilities as are delegated to
or required of it in this code and by state law as well as those duties
delegated from time to time by the city manager.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-14: SUBSTITUTION:
In the event that the office of director of any city department is vacant, the
city manager shall be ex officio director of such department, or may appoint a
temporary or acting director to serve such department. In the event that the
city manager serves as ex officio director of any department, the city manager
may not receive additional compensation by reason of these extra duties as
such.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
2-3-15:  BOND:
The city manager with the advice and consent of the commission may, as a
condition to the appointment of any person as the director of any city
department or as a condition of the appointment of any other city officer or
employee whose responsibilities include the handling of public money, require
an official bond in form to be approved by the commission with one or more
surety companies authorized to do business in this state. The premiums on any
such bond shall be a proper charge against the city and shall be paid as other
expenses of the appropriate department for whose employees the city manager,
with the advice and consent of the commission, has required them.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001; amd. Ord. 3264, 8-26-2019)
CHAPTER 4
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-4-1:   Organization; Appointment
2-4-2:   Chief Of Police
2-4-3:   Captain, Lieutenant Or Sergeants Of Police
2-4-4:   Special Officers
2-4-5:   Jurisdiction
2-4-1: ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENT:
The police force shall be composed of a Chief of Police and such police
officers and other employees as the City Manager may determine. In case of
riot, or in the event of emergency, or at the time of elections or similar
occasions, the Chief may appoint additional police officers for temporary
service who need not be in the classified service. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-4-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police is the chief law enforcement officer within the City and
has exclusive control of the stationing and transferring of all police officers
and such other employees constituting the police force. The Chief shall have
such power and perform such duties as are prescribed by Federal law, State law,
the City Charter, this Code and the City Manager. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-4-3: CAPTAIN, LIEUTENANT OR SERGEANTS OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police may establish positions of Captain, Lieutenant or Sergeants
of police, and establish rules applicable thereto. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-4-4: SPECIAL OFFICERS:
No person shall act as a special police officer, special detective or other
special police officer for any purpose whatsoever, except upon the written
authority of the Chief of Police and for a period not to exceed ten (10) days
without a special order to that effect from the City Manager. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-
2001)
2-4-5: JURISDICTION:
Each and every police officer of the City is hereby authorized to make arrests
of persons charged with or committing crime(s) within the limits of the City
and within five (5) miles thereof, and along the lines of water supply of the
City in accordance with State law. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-5-1:   Organization
2-5-2:   Fire Chief
2-5-3:   Authority Of Chief During Fire
2-5-4:   Obeying Lawful Commands
2-5-5:   Crossing Fire Hose
2-5-6:   Police Power Of The Chief
2-5-7:   Fire Protection Outside City
2-5-8:   Fire Protection Contract
2-5-9:   Special Firefighters
2-5-1: ORGANIZATION:
The fire department consists of a chief of the fire department and such numbers
of paid officers and firefighters as the commission may provide. The fire
department is regulated by state law, this code, and such other rules and
regulations as the fire chief, under the supervision of the city manager, may
prescribe. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-2: FIRE CHIEF:
The fire chief has exclusive control of the stationing and transfer of all
firefighters and such other officers and special firefighters as may constitute
the fire department. The fire chief has such power as is necessary to perform
the duties prescribed by state law, this code, and the city manager. (Ord.
2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-3: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF DURING FIRE:
The fire chief may prescribe the limits in the vicinity of any fire or
emergency scene within which no persons, except those who reside therein,
firefighters, police officers, and those admitted by order of any officer of
the fire department, are permitted to enter or remain. The fire chief is hereby
authorized to request of the chief of police or other officer in charge of the
police, a detail of police officers sufficient in the fire chief's judgment
therefor, who, for the time being, shall act under the instructions of said
chief of the fire department or officer in command. It is unlawful for any
person to break through or attempt to break through the limits mentioned in
this section. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-4: OBEYING LAWFUL COMMANDS:
The operations of the fire department in connection with extinguishing any fire
or other emergency may not be obstructed. Lawful commands of the fire chief or
officer of the fire department in charge at such a scene, or any part thereof,
or any police officer assisting the fire department, must be obeyed. (Ord.
2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-5: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle may be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command. (Ord.
2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-6: POLICE POWER OF THE CHIEF:
The fire chief ex officio has and may exercise all the powers of a police
officer at the time and place of a fire. The fire chief has the power, if need
be, to summon any and all persons present to aid in extinguishing any fire or
in removing any property from any building on fire or in danger thereof, and in
guarding same. The fire chief has the power to order the cutting down and
removal of any building, structure, fence or other thing if deemed necessary
for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-7: FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY:
Any village, governmental subdivision, unincorporated fire district,
institution of educational, philanthropic, or eleemosynary nature, private
corporation, or individual, located outside of the city limits, desiring the
city to furnish them with fire protection may make application to the city
commission for that purpose. The application must set forth the corporate
limits, boundaries or legal description of the property to be protected in
relation to the city limits, and a statement of the total assessed valuation of
said real and personal property as shown in the records of Lewis and Clark
County as of the date of application, and annually thereafter. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-
2001)
2-5-8: FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT:
If the city commission elects to provide the fire protection in response to the
aforesaid application, the following rules govern such contract for said fire
protection:
   A.   The contract must be executed by the applicant pursuant to proper
authority by its governing body, or in the case of individuals or corporations,
by an authorized person or persons.
   B.   After proper execution by the applicant and approval by the city
attorney, the contract will be submitted to the commission, and upon proper
approval by the commission will be executed by the proper city officials and a
copy thereof delivered to the applicant. The contract will be in force and
effect from and after execution and delivery by the city.
   C.   Cost of protection outside of the city is determined according to the
assessed valuation of the property to be protected; provided, however, where
the property is not subject to taxation and there is no valuation, the city
commission may negotiate a reasonable sum with the applicant for the
protection.
   D.   The fire chief or the officer in charge may retain in the city such
equipment and personnel as, in the fire chief's or officer's opinion, are
necessary for the proper and adequate protection of the city. The fire chief or
officer in charge may dispatch for the protection of the applicant only such
personnel and equipment in response to fire alarms or calls by authorized
persons as can for the time being be safely spared from the city. In case of
emergency within the city while the equipment and personnel of the fire
department are engaged in fighting a fire for the applicant, the fire chief, or
other officer in charge of the fire department may recall to the city from the
service of said applicant such equipment and personnel as is considered
necessary to meet said emergency. The determination of the chief or active head
of the fire department as to which equipment shall be furnished or withdrawn as
provided herein is final and conclusive.
   E.   No charge may be imposed for the use of fire equipment or personnel in
the case of communities maintaining fire departments which have reciprocal
agreements for such service with the city. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-5-9: SPECIAL FIREFIGHTERS:
In case of riot, conflagration or other emergency, the fire chief may appoint
additional firefighters and such other officers for temporary service as are
needed and who need not be in the classified service. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 6
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-6-1:   Created, Powers
2-6-2:   Boards And Commissions Created By Interlocal Agreement
2-6-3:   Existing Boards
2-6-1: CREATED, POWERS:
There shall be such subordinate boards, commissions and special committees as
the commission may by resolution, motion or interlocal cooperation agreement
create. Such boards, commissions and committees shall have such powers, duties,
terms of existence and membership as are specified in the resolution, motion or
agreement creating them, unless otherwise specifically provided in state law.
Unless otherwise provided in such motion, resolution or agreement, or in state
law, members must be adult citizens of the city and serve at the pleasure of
the commission. Each such board, commission or committee shall establish rules
and procedures for its own operation. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-6-2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS CREATED BY INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT:
The city and the county of Lewis And Clark have, by interlocal agreement,
established joint boards and commissions. These boards and commissions shall
have the powers and responsibilities described in the agreements establishing
them. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-6-3: EXISTING BOARDS:
There shall be:
   A.   A housing authority, constituted and possessing the powers granted in
state law.
   B.   A board of adjustment constituted and possessing the powers and duties
delegated to it in this code and, so far as not inconsistent therewith, the
powers and duties prescribed by law. (Ord. 2914, 7-23-2001)
   C.   A zoning commission constituted and possessing the powers and duties
delegated to it in this code and, so far as not inconsistent therewith, the
powers and duties prescribed by law.
      1.   The zoning commission shall be appointed by the mayor with the
concurrence of the city commission. There shall be five (5) members and one
alternate, all of whom must be residents of the city of Helena.
      2.   Each member will serve a term of three (3) years with the terms
being staggered. Initially, one member shall be appointed for a one year term,
one member for a two (2) year term, and the third member for a three (3) year
term. Thereafter, each appointment to the zoning commission shall be for a
three (3) year term. The alternate member shall be appointed for a three (3)
year term.
      3.   The alternate will serve only in the event that a regular member is
unable to attend a meeting.
      4.   The zoning commission shall select one of the members to chair the
meetings and it may adopt operating rules.
      5.   Three (3) members constitute a quorum. (Ord. 3066, 10-30-2006)
   D.   A board of appeals constituted and possessing the powers and duties
provided in the international building code, as amended from time to time. In
addition, the board of appeals shall possess the duties of an appeals board for
the electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and fire codes. (Ord. 3195, 6-23-2014)
      1.   Said board shall determine the suitability of alternate materials
and methods of construction and provide for reasonable interpretations of the
international building, electrical, mechanical, and plumbing codes.
      2.   The board of appeals is appointed by the mayor with the concurrence
of the city commission. There are five (5) members of said board, along with
two (2) alternates. The five (5) members of the board must consist of the
following:
         a.   The chief building official who is a nonvoting member;
         b.   A member of the fire department;
         c.   A consumer/citizen of the city;
         d.   An architect or engineer practicing in the city; and
         e.   A contractor doing business in the city.
      3.   In addition to the five (5) regular members of said board, the
mayor, with the concurrence of the city commission, shall appoint two (2)
alternate members.
      4.   Each member of this board shall serve for a term of five (5) years
from the date of appointment. The terms of the members of this board are
staggered. Two (2) members will be appointed for initial terms of three (3)
years, and three (3) members will be appointed for initial terms of two (2)
years. Thereafter, each board member shall serve a term of five (5) years.
   E.   The Helena/Lewis And Clark County consolidated planning board, a
consolidation of the planning boards of the city of Helena and Lewis And Clark
County. This consolidated planning board is constituted and organized by
interlocal agreement between the city of Helena and Lewis And Clark County. It
possesses the powers granted by the interlocal agreement, state law, and this
code and may exercise those powers within its jurisdictional area.
   F.   A city planning board that possesses the powers granted by state law
and this code. It may exercise those powers over the jurisdictional area of the
city of Helena located within Jefferson County. The city planning board shall
have no less than seven (7) members with qualifications required by state law,
and the board may include additional members representing Jefferson County as
is agreed upon between the city of Helena and Jefferson County. Any member of
the Helena/Lewis And Clark County consolidated planning board who is otherwise
qualified by law may serve as a member of the city planning board. This board
may be combined by interlocal agreement with Jefferson County into either a
joint planning board with the Jefferson County planning board or a consolidated
city-county planning board. If combined, the jurisdictional area of the
combined planning board will be defined by the interlocal agreement.
   G.   An affordable housing trust fund advisory board that will review and
make funding allocation recommendations to the Helena City Commission for each
project applying for support from the Affordable Housing Trust Fund that was
created by Resolution No. 20630 on November 9, 2020.
      1.   The affordable housing trust fund advisory board is appointed by the
mayor with the concurrence of the city commission. There are seven (7) members
of the affordable housing trust fund advisory board. The seven (7) members of
the affordable housing trust fund advisory board consist of the following:
         a.   One (1) member with direct experience in housing insecurity;
         b.   One (1) resident of the City of Helena at large;
         c.   One (1) member of the nonprofit housing sector;
         d.   One (1) member of the real estate sector;
         e.   One (1) member with a background in engineering or architecture;
and
         f.   Two (2) members from the field of banking or finance.
      2.   Each member of this board will serve for a term of three (3) years
from the date of appointment. The terms of the members of this board are
staggered. Four (4) members will be appointed for initial terms of two (2)
years, and three (3) members will be appointed for initial terms of one (1)
year. Thereafter, each board member shall serve a term of three (3) years.
(Ord. 3066, 10-30-2006; amd. Ord. 3292, 10-18-2021)
CHAPTER 7
POLICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1:   Created; Appointees
2-7-2:   Police Commission Duties
2-7-1: CREATED; APPOINTEES:
   A.   There is hereby created a Police Commission for the City, to consist of
members appointed in accordance with section 7-32-4151, Montana Code Annotated.
   B.   The terms and compensation of members of the Police Commission are as
found in section 7-32-4152, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 3239, 4-9-2018)
2-7-2: POLICE COMMISSION DUTIES:
   A.   The Police Commission shall administer such portions of title 7,
chapter 32, part 41, Montana Code Annotated, as are not inconsistent herewith.
   B.   The commission shall examine all applicants certified for the police
force forwarded to it by the Helena Police Department as to their age, legal,
mental, moral, and physical qualifications. (Ord. 3239, 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
2-8-1:   Abolishment Of City Court And Establishment Of Municipal Court
2-8-2:   Municipal Court Clerk And Duties
2-8-3:   Judge's Duties; Deposit Of Fines
2-8-4:   Bail Bond
2-8-5:   Judge's Qualifications And Compensation
2-8-6:   Court Fees, Criminal
2-8-7:   Court Fees, Civil
2-8-8:   Court Sessions And Office Hours
2-8-1: ABOLISHMENT OF CITY COURT AND ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.   The Helena city court is hereby abolished and a municipal court for the
city of Helena is hereby established pursuant to section 3-6-101, Montana Code
Annotated.
   B.   A municipal court is established and governed as set forth in title 3,
chapter 6, Montana Code Annotated, which is hereby adopted by this reference.
   C.   The municipal court shall assume continuing jurisdiction over all
pending city court cases.
   D.   The position of city court judge is abolished and the city court judge
shall serve as the municipal court judge for the remainder of the judge's term,
until the office of municipal court judge is filled by election, as provided by
law.
   E.   One judge is required to operate the municipal court. Additional part
time assistant judges may be appointed by the judge with approval of the city
commission as provided by law. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-2: MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK AND DUTIES:
   A.   Pursuant to the requirements of section 3-6-301, Montana Code
Annotated, the position of municipal court clerk is established within the
municipal court.
   B.   The city manager is responsible for and has the authority for the
hiring and, when necessary, the discipline and discharge of the municipal court
clerk and municipal court staff. The municipal court judge is responsible for
and has the authority to direct and supervise the municipal court clerk and
municipal court staff on the operation of the court.
   C.   The city commission shall set the salary for the municipal court clerk
and provide for other necessary expenses incurred in operating the court in the
city's annual budget.
   D.   The municipal court clerk, under the direction of the municipal court
judge, shall assist the municipal court judge in the recording and signing of
court proceedings. The municipal court records must be created, kept,
maintained, and retained by the clerk in the manner and fashion as provided by
law. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-3: JUDGE'S DUTIES; DEPOSIT OF FINES:
   A.   The municipal court judge shall perform such duties and have those
powers as are prescribed by state law. The municipal court judge shall keep a
docket of and hear and determine all cases filed in the municipal court.
   B.   All fines imposed and collected by the municipal court must be paid to
the city treasurer in the finance division of the city's administrative
services department within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof. (Ord. 3121, 1-
11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-4: BAIL BOND:
   A.   The municipal court judge is authorized and directed to set bonds for
the various violations of city ordinances and state statutes within the
municipal court's jurisdiction and authorized by state law. The municipal court
judge shall provide a bond schedule to the chief of police.
   B.   The municipal court judge is authorized to receive bail bonds from,
for, or on behalf of defendants charged with misdemeanors in the municipal
court.
   C.   Bonds collected by police officers or detention officers must be
delivered to the municipal court at the beginning of the next business day. The
police officers or detention officers shall provide defendants or persons
posting bond with receipts for bail and written notice of the time and place to
appear before the municipal judge. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-5: JUDGE'S QUALIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   The qualifications of the municipal court judge are those prescribed by
state law.
   B.   The annual salary and compensation of the municipal court judge must be
fixed by ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-6: COURT FEES, CRIMINAL:
   A.   The court fee for posting bond for any case pending in municipal court
is in addition to the regular bond. This court fee must be paid at the time of
posting bond. If, at a later date, the municipal court judge or a jury finds
the defendant not guilty, the court fee will be returned to the defendant. If
the defendant forfeits the posted bond, the court fee also will be forfeited.
   B.   A court fee, in addition to the regular fine and surcharges required by
law, will be assessed against any person who appears in the municipal court and
is found guilty of the charges brought against him or her. This court fee may
not be assessed until a conviction has been reached by either the judge or a
jury. This court fee is to be paid along with the regular fine and surcharges,
and is to cover the court costs incurred in the action. If a defendant has
previously paid a court fee for posting bond, the defendant shall pay the
difference between the amount of the bond fee and the court fee upon receiving
a guilty verdict. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   C.   If a not guilty verdict is returned by either the judge or jury, a
court fee may not be assessed against the defendant.
   D.   The municipal court judge has no discretion in levying the court fee.
All defendants who are found guilty either by plea, the judge, or a jury are
responsible for said court fee. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
2-8-7: COURT FEES, CIVIL:
In civil cases, the municipal court will charge the fees set forth in Montana
Code Annotated section 25-31-112 and any surcharges otherwise established by
law. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
2-8-8: COURT SESSIONS AND OFFICE HOURS:
The municipal court is in continuous session as provided by law. The hours for
the court office must be posted in the court office. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010,
eff. 3-1-2010)
CHAPTER 9
CLERK OF THE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1:   Duties
2-9-2:   Bond
2-9-1: DUTIES:
The clerk shall countersign all warrants drawn on the city treasury, and shall
do and perform such other duties as are provided in this code and as may from
time to time be enjoined upon the clerk by order of the commission. (Ord. 2910,
6-4-2001)
2-9-2: BOND:
The clerk shall give bond to the city, with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the commission, in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 10
DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES AGENCY
SECTION:
2-10-1:   Definitions
2-10-2:   Designation Of Disaster And Emergency Services Office
2-10-3:   State Of Local Disaster Emergency
2-10-4:   Effect Of Federal And State Legislation
2-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions as used in this chapter:
   DISASTER: The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot, or
hostile military or paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS: Measures taken to minimize the probability of
severity of disasters; the preparation for, and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible; and the prevention minimization,
and reparation of injuries and damages resulting from disasters.
   STATE OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY: A condition declared by the chairman of
the board of county commissioners of any county or by the mayor or other
principal executive officer of any city upon finding that a disaster has
occurred or the threat is imminent within such county or city. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-
2001)
2-10-2: DESIGNATION OF DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES OFFICE:
   A.   The Lewis and Clark County disaster and emergency services office is
designated by the city of Helena as the disaster agency responsible for
emergency and disaster preparedness and coordination of response and recovery.
   B.   The disaster and emergency services office is responsible emergency
preparedness, coordination of response to disasters, providing disaster
planning and emergency services, and furnishing additional information relating
thereto as the state division of disaster and emergency services requires.
(Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-10-3: STATE OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY:
   A.   A state of local disaster emergency may be declared by the mayor,
having a local disaster emergency plan, upon a finding by such officer that a
disaster has occurred or the threat thereof is imminent within the city.
   B.   No state of local disaster emergency shall be continued for a period in
excess of ten (10) days or renewed except with the consent of the Helena city
commission.
   C.   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a state
of local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed promptly with the city clerk.
   D.   In the absence of the mayor, or if the mayor is incapacitated, the city
commission, by majority action of the remaining members thereof, may declare a
state of local disaster emergency.
   E.   The declaration of a state of local disaster emergency shall activate
the response and recovery aspects of any and all local disaster emergency plans
which are applicable to the city, and shall initiate the rendering of aid and
assistance thereunder. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
2-10-4: EFFECT OF FEDERAL AND STATE LEGISLATION:
   A.   This chapter is subject to, but not limited by, state and federal laws
presently in effect. Montana law is presently title 10, chapter 3, Montana Code
Annotated, as amended. Federal law is presently PL 82-920, PL 93-288, and PL
94-361.
   B.   All of the rights, powers, privileges, priorities, and protections
embodied in said state and federal laws, enacted now or hereafter, may enlarge,
expand, supplement, complement, amend, or explain this chapter, but in no event
shall they limit the specific provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2910, 6-4-2001)
TITLE 3
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Building And Safety Division Established
3-1-2: Appointment Of Building Official
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: Access To Structures
3-1-5: Occupied Structures To Be Served By City Utilities
3-1-6: Permits Required
3-1-7: Permit Requirements
3-1-8: Plans And Specifications
3-1-9: Inspection Required
3-1-10: Certificate Of Occupancy
3-1-11: Decision And Appeal
3-1-12: Waiver Of Fees
3-1-13: Violations; Penalties
3-1-14: Enforcement
3-1-1: BUILDING AND SAFETY DIVISION ESTABLISHED:
There is a building and safety division within the community development
department that is supervised by the director of community development. (Ord.
3151, 4-23-2012; amd. Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The city manager shall appoint the building official. The building official is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this title, with
the exception of
chapter 9, "Fire Prevention Code", of this title. (Ord. 3151, 4-23-2012; amd.
Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official appointed by the city manager or the
building official's designee, to include all city code inspectors.
ENFORCED CODES: All codes adopted and enforced by the city as specified in
Chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-4: ACCESS TO STRUCTURES:
No structure may be occupied, and no permit for any structure shall be issued,
unless there is a road, built to city specifications, providing access to said
structure. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-5: OCCUPIED STRUCTURES TO BE SERVED BY CITY UTILITIES:
   A.   No structure may be occupied unless it is served by city water and
sanitary sewer services.
   B.   All service connections to city water and sanitary sewer services must
be:
      1.   Connected to a city water or sanitary sewer main in the city's
right-of-way, alley, or the city's utility easement adjacent to the structure
to be served;
      2.   In compliance with Title 6 of this city code; and
      3.   In compliance with city engineering standards.
   C.   If no city water main is available in the city's right-of-way or alley
adjacent to the structure, the owner of the structure must, at the owner's sole
expense, extend the existing city water main through the entire length of the
property to be served. All such extensions must be made in compliance with
Title 6 of this city code and city engineering standards.
   D.   If no city sewer main is available in the city's right-of-way or alley
adjacent to the structure, the owner of the structure must, at the owner's sole
expense, extend the existing city sanitary sewer main through as much of the
length of the property as is determined necessary and reasonable by the
director of public works of the city. All such extensions must be made in
compliance with Title 6 of this city code and city engineering standards. (Ord.
3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-6: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   No building construction, alteration, repair, or demolition may begin
without a permit issued by the building official if a permit is required by the
enforced codes.
   B.   The permit card must be posted in a conspicuous place on the front
premises for which the permit is issued and in such a location as to allow the
building official to conveniently make the required entries thereon respecting
inspection of the work. The permit card must be maintained in such location by
the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has been issued or final
inspection completed. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The property owner, or the owner's designee, must submit the
information for each permit as required by the building official, on the forms
provided. The building official may require that all permit applications be
submitted electronically.
   B.   All applicable permit fees, as set by resolution of the city
commission, must be paid prior to a permit being issued. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-8: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Whenever the issuance of a permit requires the applicant to submit
plans and specifications for review by the building official, when the permit
is issued, the building official must endorse in writing or stamp "Approved"
the submitted plans and specifications. Such approved plans and specifications
shall not be changed, modified, or altered without authorization from the
building official and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans.
   B.   A copy of the approved plans and specifications must be kept at the
work site to which the plans and specifications pertain at all times during
which the work authorized thereby is in progress and shall be open to
inspection by the building official.
   C.   The building and safety division must retain a copy, as public record,
of the plans and specifications submitted and approved as part of a permit for
a period of not less than ninety (90) days from the date of completion of the
work covered therein. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-9: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   All work requiring a permit must be inspected by the building official
at various intervals, as required by the city, to assure compliance with the
enforced codes. No work may be covered up until the same has been approved by
the building official.
   B.   The building official must be provided access to the property to
conduct the required inspections.
   C.   Following an inspection, the permit holder must correct any condition
that is determined to be unsafe to life and property or in violation of the
applicable enforced code. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-10: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No building may be occupied, including in part, unless or until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the building official. The building
official shall, after an application therefore has been filed by the owner or
the owner's agent, issue a certificate of occupancy for such building if, after
inspection of the work authorized by applicable permits, it is found that such
building substantially complies with the provisions of this title and all other
requirements of the enforced codes applicable thereto.
   B.   The certificate of occupancy must show:
      1.   Building permit number;
      2.   Address of the building;
      3.   Name and address of the owner;
      4.   Description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is being issued;
      5.   Statement that the described portion of the building has been
inspected for substantial compliance with the applicable enforced code for the
group, division, and use for which the occupancy is certified;
      6.   The name of the building official;
      7.   The edition of the enforced code under which the permit was issued;
      8.   The type of construction;
      9.   The design occupant load;
      10.   The existence of an automatic sprinkler system and whether it was
required; and
      11.   Any special requirements and conditions associated with the
building permit.
   C.   The issued certificate of occupancy is not a certification or guarantee
of total compliance with the applicable effective codes.
   D.   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the building
official for the temporary use of a portion of a building prior to the
completion and occupancy of the entire building. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-11: DECISION AND APPEAL:
   A.   Any decision of a building official’s designee, including that of an
inspector, may be appealed in writing to the appointed building official for a
final decision. The building official may confirm or reverse the inspector. The
final decision of the building official shall be in writing.
   B.   An appeal from the final written decision of the building official upon
any matter affecting any of the codes adopted in this title or any other
provision in this title may be taken to the board of appeals, which has powers
and duties as provided in subsection
2-6-3D of this code, as well as the powers and duties of an appeals board in
any of the codes adopted in this title.
   C.   Any appeal to the board of appeals must be in writing and delivered to
the director of community development within thirty (30) calendar days of the
building official's final decision. The board shall hear and render a decision
on the appeal within thirty (30) days of filing, unless by agreement of the
department and the appellant the time is extended.
   D.   An appeal from the decision of the board of appeals may be taken to the
commission, by filing a written notice of appeal upon the clerk, within thirty
(30) days after the decision of the board of appeals. The commission has the
power to review the decision of the board of appeals, hear evidence relative
thereto, and to revise, amend or alter the order of the board of appeals. (Ord.
3151, 4-23-2012; amd. Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-12: WAIVER OF FEES:
   A.   The city commission may, by resolution, at its sole discretion, waive
the imposition of a portion or all of any fee imposed by the provisions of
Title 3 of the city code for an affordable housing project.
   B.   For purposes of this section “affordable housing project” is defined as
a housing project intended to house:
      1.   Homeless or disabled persons, as such terms are defined by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development; or
      2.   Households with an annual income that does not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the area median income for the applicable household size in the Lewis
and Clark County statistical area, as published by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   C.   A developer seeking waiver of fees pursuant to this section must submit
an application, provided by the city, prior to the issuance of any certificates
of occupancy for the project that is subject to the waiver request.
   D.   To grant a waiver of fees the city commission must find that:
      1.   The project meets the definition of an “affordable housing project;”
and
      2.   The proposed waiver will not jeopardize the financial interests of
the city. In making this determination, the city commission may consider any of
the following factors:
         a.   The size of the project;
         b.   The number of persons proposed to be served;
         c.   The financial capability of the applicant to pursue the project
without fee waiver;
         d.   The length of time the project is guaranteed to remain
affordable;
         e.   The manner in which the applicant has guaranteed the project will
remain affordable; and
         f.   Any other factor the city commission deems relevant.
   E.   The city commission may condition the waiver of fees to ensure the
project remains affordable. Conditions imposed by the city commission can
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Time limitations;
      2.   Written agreements;
      3.   Guarantees;
      4.   Proof of income verification;
      5.   Annual certification of rents; and
      6.   Annual certifications of compliance.
   F.   The city must keep a record of all waivers of fees granted pursuant to
this section.
   G.   If the city determines that an affordable housing project has violated
any condition imposed, the city may seek the full balance of the waived fees,
which may be attached as a lien against the property. (Ord. 3277, 12-9-2019;
amd. Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any contractor who performs work without a permit when a permit is required by
the applicable enforced code may have that contractor’s city business license
suspended or revoked as provided for in Title 4 of this code and be subject to
any applicable penalties. (Ord. 3151, 4-23-2012; amd. Ord. 3277, 12-9-2019;
Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
3-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
The city may seek injunctive relief, in the Helena municipal court, to assure
compliance with provisions of this title. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES ADOPTED AND ENFORCED BY THE CITY
SECTION:
3-2-1:   Building Code
3-2-2:   Residential Code
3-2-3:   Energy Code
3-2-4:   Existing Building Code
3-2-5:   Plumbing Code
3-2-6:   Electrical Code
3-2-7:   Mechanical Code
3-2-8:   Fuel Gas Code
3-2-9:   Swimming Pool And Spa Code
3-2-10:   Copies Of Adopted And Enforced Codes
3-2-1: BUILDING CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Building Code ( "IBC") as adopted by the State of Montana, together with
Appendix C - Group U-Agricultural Buildings, amendments, and modifications, as
set forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as
adopted by the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280,
2-24-2020; amd. Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and.by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Residential Code ("IRC") as adopted by the State of Montana, together with
Appendix Q - Tiny Houses and Appendix S - Strawbale Construction, including
amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title 24, Chapter 30 1, of the
Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the State of Montana, Department
of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd. Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-3: ENERGY CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Code Council's International Energy Conservation Code, referred to as the
International Energy Conservation Code as adopted by the State of Montana,
together with all amendments and modifications, as set forth in Title 24,
Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by Ord. 3301
the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020;
amd. Ord. 3288, 5-17-2021; Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-4: EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Existing Building Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with all
accompanying appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title
24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the
State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd.
Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-5: PLUMBING CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the Uniform Plumbing
Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with all accompanying
appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title 24, Chapter
301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the State of
Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd. Ord.
3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-6: ELECTRICAL CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the National
Electrical Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with all
accompanying appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title
24, Chapter 30 1 , of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the
State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd.
Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-7: MECHANICAL CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Mechanical Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with all
accompanying appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title
24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the
State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd.
Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-8: FUEL GAS CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Fuel Gas Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with all
accompanying appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in Title
24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the
State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd.
Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-9: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
The City of Helena hereby adopts and by this reference incorporates into this
title as if set forth in full, except any regulations which are not applicable
to local government jurisdictions, the current edition of the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code as adopted by the State of Montana, together with
all accompanying appendices, amendments, and modifications, as set forth in
Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by
the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry. (Ord. 3283, 11-9-2020;
amd. Ord. 3301, 9-26-2022)
3-2-10: COPIES OF ADOPTED AND ENFORCED CODES:
A copy of all building codes adopted and enforced by the city are available for
viewing in the city's building and safety division located at 316 North Park
Avenue, Helena, Montana 59623. (Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020; amd. Ord. 3283, 11-9-
2020)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
   (Repealed and Reserved by Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
   (Repealed and Reserved by Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
   (Repealed and Reserved by Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 6
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-6-1:   Permit Required; Bond
3-6-2:   Application For Permit
3-6-3:   Duties Of Owner
3-6-4:   Moving To Be Continuous
3-6-5:   Utility Lines; Notification Required
3-6-6:   When Escort Service Required
3-6-7:   Building Removal, Repair; Bond
3-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; BOND:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any portion of any public right
of way for the removal of any building or structure within, into or out of the
corporate limits without first securing a permit from the department of
building and safety. Before such permit is granted the applicant must show
compliance with all provisions of this chapter and furnish a liability bond or
policy of liability insurance in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) personal injury
and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage, which must be on file
in the clerk's office. The public liability policy provided by section
3-6-7 of this chapter, may be accepted as meeting the requirements of this
section. It shall be unlawful to place any moved building or structure on any
lot or parcel of ground, or to move a building from one lot to a part of the
same within the city limits without first securing a building permit from the
department of building and safety. (Ord. 1717, 2-14-1966)
3-6-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for the moving of any building or structure shall be made on forms
supplied by the community development department, accompanied by a fee. Upon
approval of the moving permit, the applicant will be given an eight inch by ten
inch (8" x 10") yellow colored permit card which shall be securely attached to
the front of the building. This permit shall show the following: (Ord. 3177, 6-
10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   A.   Date,
   B.   Name of applicant,
   C.   Route to be taken in the moving of the building.
Application for a permit to place such building or structure on any lot or
parcel of ground within the corporate limits shall be made on forms provided by
the building department.
All forms shall contain such information as may be deemed necessary for the use
and protection of public property and to meet all applicable codes and zoning
regulations. (Ord. 2205, 8-3-1981)
3-6-3: DUTIES OF OWNER:
Before any building or structure for which a moving permit required is moved
into or within or from one lot to another, or from a part of one lot to a part
of the same within the city, the owner or his agent shall:
   A.   Provide the department of building and safety with the location and
destination of the building structure to be moved.
   B.   Upon proper notification, the department of building and safety shall
cause the building or structure to be inspected and examined for compliance
with all codes applicable and to see that it will be consistent with the type
of buildings or structures in the area to which it will be moved as not to
depreciate the value of surrounding property.
   C.   The owner shall file with the department of building and safety a good
and sufficient surety bond or cash, in an amount to be set by the building
official based upon his cost estimate, that will guarantee faithful and prompt
construction of the building in compliance with applicable codes and zoning
regulations. (Ord. 1717, 2-14-1966)
3-6-4: MOVING TO BE CONTINUOUS:
The moving of buildings or structures upon or over public rights of way shall
be continuous. All moving of buildings shall be subject to such safety
regulations as may be promulgated by the director of building and safety. (Ord.
1717, 2-14-1966)
3-6-5: UTILITY LINES; NOTIFICATION REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to move a building or structure upon or over city rights
of way wherein it is necessary to cut, repair, remove, raise or replace any
cable, wires or any objects whether they are public or privately owned that may
interfere with the moving of such building or structure shall file with the
application for a permit written evidence (consent) that arrangements have been
made with the owner of such facilities, which shall be filed with the
department of building and safety at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the
expectation of the issuance of the permit.
In all cases where the height of the building plus the height of the moving
conveyance is in excess of seventeen feet (17'), the application for a moving
permit must be accompanied by a deposit of two hundred dollars ($200.00) as a
guaranty of payment to the city of costs incurred by the city in performing
services incident to such building moving, which cost shall be deducted from
such deposit. Any balance remaining on deposit shall be remitted to the
applicant forthwith and any balance owing to the city shall be charged to the
applicant.
In addition, the applicant must furnish to the director of building and safety
a certificate showing approval by the officer or business concern having
property with which such building moving may interfere, including, but not
limited to, the following concerns and properties:
   Montana Power Company      Light and power wires
   Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company   Telephone wires
   Fire department    Fire alarm wire system
   Police department   Traffic and signal system routes and traffic control
   Superintendent of parks   Trees and shrubbery
The issuance of a permit shall not release the applicant from any liability for
damage to utilities or other property whether or not mentioned in this chapter.
(Ord. 1717, 2-14-1966)
3-6-6: WHEN ESCORT SERVICE REQUIRED:
When the building or structure to be moved is more than ten feet (10') in
width, escort service is required. The owner or his authorized agent shall
obtain such escort service when moving buildings or structures over public
rights of way within the city. (Ord. 1717, 2-14-1966)
3-6-7: BUILDING REMOVAL, REPAIR; BOND:
No person shall construct, repair or remove any building or structure within
the city, where said building or structure, or any part thereof, is within
three feet (3') of the property line, or where any scaffolding or work is on or
projects over any sidewalk, street or alley, or where work or materials occupy
any part of sidewalk, street or alley, without first securing a permit therefor
from the building inspector, and no permit shall be issued by said building
inspector, unless the person shall have on file in the office of the clerk a
public liability policy of insurance or surety bond providing limits of not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) on account of injury to or
death of one person, and subject to the same limit for each person, and not
less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) on account of injury to
or death of two (2) or more persons, and said policy of insurance or surety
bond shall be conditioned on and save harmless the city against any and all
damages or claims on account of any accident occurring during the construction,
alteration or removal of any building, or where any scaffolding or work is on,
or projects over any sidewalk, street or alley, or where any work or materials
occupy any part of sidewalks, streets or alley as herein provided.
Provided, further, that such permit may be revoked by the building official
where the holder thereof fails to comply with any of the rules or regulations
under which it is granted. Convenience and safety require such revocation.
(Ord. 1717, 2-14-1966)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Repealed and Reserved by Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 8
ERECTION OF SIGNS
(Rep. by Ord. 3072, 11-20-2006)
CHAPTER 9
RESERVED
   Repealed by Ord. 3313, passed 1-8-2024.
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
   Repealed by Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024.
CHAPTER 11
WATER WELLS
SECTION:
3-11-1:   Title
3-11-2:   Definitions
3-11-3:   Restrictions
3-11-4:   Authorized Wells
3-11-5:   Revocation
3-11-6:   Property Authorized For Well Use By Permit
3-11-7:   Control Valves
3-11-8:   Domestic Wells Serving Newly Annexed Property
3-11-9:   Marking
3-11-10:   Administration
3-11-11:   Interpretation, Conflict With Other Laws
3-11-12:   Validity
3-11-13:   Violations And Civil Penalties
3-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WATER WELL CODE OF THE CITY
OF HELENA, MONTANA. (Ord. 1705, 5-24-1965)
3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation or body politic, and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or other similar representative
thereof.
   WATER WELL: Any digging, drilling or excavation, by hand or by the use of
machinery or equipment, whereby water is obtained from under the surface of the
ground to be used on or above the ground surface. (Ord. 2492, 2-27-1989; amd.
Ord. 2811A, 10-6-1997)
3-11-3: RESTRICTIONS:
No other water well is authorized, except as provided in this chapter. Except
as may be allowed by the express permission of the city, piping from a water
well may not be connected directly or indirectly or cross connected to piping
connected to the city's water distribution system. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-4: AUTHORIZED WELLS:
   A.   Upon obtaining a well permit pursuant to this chapter, a person may use
a water well within the city limits for the following purposes:
      1.   Production of manufactured goods, whether or not such goods are
designed for human consumption. Well water used for production of manufactured
goods may not be used for other domestic uses except as otherwise allowed by
this chapter.
      2.   Uses not necessitating potable water.
   B.   A person desiring to install and use a water well shall make
application therefor to the building and safety division of the community
development department for a well permit. Any such application shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Purpose for which the well and well water are to be used. For
manufacturing uses, a statement of why well water is preferable to city water.
      3.   A site plan and legal description of the property proposed to
contain the well and of the property to be served by the well. The site plan
must show the proposed location of the well and well equipment or piping
associated with the well water distribution system. The site plan must also
show all underground utilities (i.e., water, sewer service, gas, electric,
telephone, cable television, etc.). The applicant shall verify utility
locations when preparing the site plan by contacting the "one call utility
locate system" and shall preserve such evidence on site until the well is
drilled.
      4.   Name of person who will drill the well.
      5.   Proof that the applicant either has obtained a ground water
appropriation certificate from the state of Montana or that a certificate is
not required.
   C.   Before the well is put into operation, the building official will
inspect it to determine that the well will be utilized only for permitted
purposes and that no unauthorized connections or cross connections from the
well to the city's water distribution system have occurred. Cross connections
may be authorized by the public works director if the city's water distribution
system is protected from backflow from the well according to the applicable
plumbing or water quality codes designed to protect public health. The building
official will also inspect the drilling premises to determine compliance with
subsection E of this section. The building official shall make the
investigation necessary to determine that the well being applied for is within
the property boundaries described in the application and will not adversely
affect city owned utilities (i.e., water and sewer mains, storm drains and
similar structures) that may cross through the applicant's property, with or
without an easement, as determined by the utility locate verification required
in subsection B3 of this section.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the permit
required hereunder shall be obtained by the person applying for the same or by
the drilling firm responsible for drilling the well. The permit is valid for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance, and if
drilling of a new well or development of an existing well is not commenced
within that time period, the permit lapses.
   E.   During the drilling process, any products of the operation shall be
confined to the premises upon which the well is being drilled. Discharging of
waste materials in or on city rights of way, alleys, streets or drainageways is
prohibited. In the event waste materials are improperly discharged, the
property owner or driller will be required to complete restoration and cleanup
to city specifications prior to final approval of well operation.
   F.   The building and safety division may grant a permit for the use of a
well for one of the purposes announced in this section, but only after making
the following findings:
      1.   For manufacturing purposes:
         a.   The existence of a bona fide manufacturing or commercial need for
the use of well water in the manufacture of a product. For purposes of this
section, the mere fact that well water may be less expensive to use in the
manufacturing process may not be considered a bona fide manufacturing or
commercial purpose;
         b.   That city water is used to separately supply other water demands
on the premises;
         c.   The well is not directly or indirectly connected or cross
connected to the city's water distribution system; and
         d.   That the applicant has agreed to pay a reasonable fee to the city
that will compensate the city for providing standby potable water and sewage
services to the manufacturing premises. The fee will be based upon existing
rates and charges for utility services then in effect and adopted by the city.
      2.   For uses not requiring potable water:
         a.   That the well, its piping, and fixtures will not be directly or
indirectly connected or cross connected to the city's water distribution system
unless the city's water distribution system is protected from backflow from the
well by means approved by the public works director as provided in subsection C
of this section; and
         b.   That the well will be used exclusively for the purpose stated in
the application.
      3.   The application is not a subterfuge for using the well in question
for potable human consumption or domestic or commercial uses not allowed by
this chapter.
      4.   Wells producing water that is discharged into the city's wastewater
system must have a city approved water meter to measure water produced by the
well. (Ord. 3015, 2-28-2005)
3-11-5: REVOCATION:
Any permit granted under the terms of this chapter may be revoked by the
building and safety division of the community development department if it
affirmatively appears that the person operating or using said well is doing so
in violation of this chapter. Revocations by the building and safety division
of the community development department under this section may be appealed to
the city manager. Appeals must be made in writing to the city manager within
thirty (30) days after mailing the written notice of revocation. (Ord. 2811A,
10-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-6: PROPERTY AUTHORIZED FOR WELL USE BY PERMIT:
A well permitted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and prior city
ordinances may be used by an applicant applying for a permit pursuant to this
chapter and its use is limited to the property listed on the application. (Ord.
2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-7: CONTROL VALVES:
For any authorized well drilled, dug or excavated pursuant to a permit granted
hereunder, the city may require that the well be equipped with adequate shutoff
valves or control valves for the purpose of controlling the flow of water from
the well and for the protection of the city's water system from pollution from
a cross connection between well piping and the city's water system. Protection
shall consist of installation of a backflow prevention device. The city may
require the installation of appropriate backflow protection devices on the
city's water system when an existing well is used for irrigation or on any
existing or new manufacturing use utilizing a well pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-8: DOMESTIC WELLS SERVING NEWLY ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Wells actively used as the sole potable water source for domestic purposes on
property annexed into the city may continue to be used as the potable water
source for the property and may be repaired, replaced, and maintained providing
all of the following apply:
   A.   A permit for the use has been obtained pursuant to this chapter;
   B.   The quality of the water produced by the well is potable and fit for
human consumption and use;
   C.   Subsequent replacements or renovations of the well do not enlarge the
initial capacity of the well as originally developed; and
   D.   The property cannot reasonably be served by the city's water
distribution system. Property served by a well must discontinue the use of that
well and connect to the city's water distribution system when the property is
capable of being served by city water pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2897, 8-
14-2000)
3-11-9: MARKING:
The issuance of a water well permit shall be conditioned on marking the water
well in a manner to be designated by the building official for the purposes of
identification, location, and for inspection at such times as may be reasonably
required. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-10: ADMINISTRATION:
The building and safety division of the community development department is
hereby designated and charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the
regulations herein prescribed. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-11: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be requirements adopted for the promotion of the health, safety and
welfare of the general public. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations
or ordinances, the more restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-12: VALIDITY:
Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-2000)
3-11-13: VIOLATIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful to install or operate any well in violation of this
chapter. A violation of any provision of this chapter may be treated as a
municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty of not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation, or if the infraction is a repeat
violation, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each subsequent
violation, and other alternative relief from the court as provided by law. Each
day the infraction exists constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. 2897, 8-14-
2000)
CHAPTER 12
EMERGENCY INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-12-1:   Declaration Of Findings
3-12-2:   Effective Date
3-12-3:   Application
3-12-4:   Right Of Entry
3-12-5:   Deputies
3-12-6:   Liability
3-12-7:   Unsafe Building
3-12-8:   Posting
3-12-9:   Repairs
3-12-10:   Penalty
3-12-1: DECLARATION OF FINDINGS:
The city commission of the city of Helena, Montana, does hereby find and
declare:
   A.   That in the event of an enemy attack, explosion, fire, riot, windstorm,
flood, tidal wave, earthquake, landslide or other disaster, it is possible that
a large number of buildings within the city will be damaged.
   B.   That it is in the best interests of the public that all buildings
within the areas where damage has occurred be inspected to determine whether
such buildings are safe for occupancy.
   C.   That it is in the best interest of the public to make such inspections
as soon as possible, and in order to accomplish such inspection, it is
necessary to use all available resources of manpower and equipment. (Ord. 2379,
10-7-1985)
3-12-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter shall become effective immediately whenever an
emergency or local disaster has been declared by resolution by the city
commission, or state of extreme emergency or state of disaster have been
declared by proper authority and shall continue in effect until terminated by a
resolution of the city commission. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-3: APPLICATION:
Upon declaration of a local or state emergency as defined in section
3-12-2 of this chapter, the director of building and safety of the city of
Helena shall have the power to order the immediate vacation of any building in
the city of Helena. Only those buildings determined to be dangerous buildings
pursuant to section 302 of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings shall be ordered vacated. Such vacated buildings shall not be
reoccupied until such buildings have been inspected and approved for occupancy.
The director of building and safety may, because of the nature of the
construction and occupancy of certain types of buildings, permit occupancy
without inspection. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The director of building and safety and his authorized representatives may,
upon showing proper credentials, inspect any building within the city upon the
declaration of an emergency pursuant to section
3-12-2 of this chapter. If any person shall refuse admittance to the director
of building and safety or his authorized representatives, said director of
building and safety or his authorized representatives are authorized to obtain
an inspection warrant pursuant to the uniform building code. The director of
building and safety or his authorized representative may remove portions of
walls or ceiling finish or other materials in order to inspect concealed
portions of the structures being inspected. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-5: DEPUTIES:
The director of building and safety may enlist volunteers with specialized
training and experience in the field of building design or construction to
assist him in inspecting buildings. Such persons shall be compensated as
specified by the city commission. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-6: LIABILITY:
The director of building and safety and his authorized representatives,
including all volunteers, shall not render themselves personally liable for any
damage that may accrue to person or property as a result of any act required,
or by reason of any omission, in the discharge of said duties. Any suit brought
against the director of building and safety or his authorized representatives
because of any act or omission performed by him in the enforcement of this
chapter shall be defended by the city. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-7: UNSAFE BUILDING:
Any building or portion thereof which, in the judgment of the director of
building and safety or his authorized representative, after inspection is not
safe for occupancy, shall be vacated forthwith and shall not be reoccupied
until the building or portion thereof is made safe and reoccupancy is approved
by the director of building and safety.
Any building or portion thereof which, in the judgment of the director of
building and safety or his authorized representative, after inspection
constitutes an immediate hazard to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public, or endangers private or public property, may be abated by immediate
demolition and removal, and the director of building and safety is hereby
authorized to take whatever steps may be necessary to accomplish summary
abatement.
The director of building and safety or his authorized representative may permit
limited entry into unsafe buildings for the purpose of rescue, salvage or
temporary repairs. Such requirements shall be enforced by the police or other
authorized security groups. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-8: POSTING:
The director of building and safety or his authorized representative, after
inspection, may post notices in a conspicuous place at the entrance to each
building. The notices may prohibit entry, permit limited entry into unsafe
buildings, or indicate that the building is safe for occupancy. No person shall
enter any building into which entry has been prohibited. Only persons
authorized by the director of building and safety or other proper authority
shall enter any building which has been permitted limited entry. No person
shall remove or deface any signs posted by the director of building and safety
or his authorized representatives.
   Color Posted            Hazard Category
   Posted green            No significant damage - unlimited entry
   Posted yellow         Minor significant damage - limited entry
   Posted red            Unsafe - major damage - entry prohibited
(Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
3-12-9: REPAIRS:
The provisions of the building code, plumbing code, electrical code and heating
and ventilating code relating to the issuance of permits and collection of
permit fees are hereby modified as follows:
The director of building and safety or his authorized representatives may issue
permits without the submission of plans, specifications or permit fees for the
following:
   A.   For repair to wood frame structures where the damage is not serious and
where repairs can be made with the same methods of construction and material
used in the original building.
   B.   For repair of interior nonstructural members not required to be fire
resistive.
   C.   For repair of electrical, mechanical and plumbing systems where the
repair work will be done substantially in the same manner as the original
construction.
   D.   For the installation of temporary bracing or shoring. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-
1985)
3-12-10: PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this chapter or of an order issued hereunder
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of such a violation
shall be subject to a fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or
imprisonment of up to thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2379, 10-7-1985)
CHAPTER 13
RESERVED
   (Repealed and Reserved by Ord. 3280, 2-24-2020)
CHAPTER 14
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-14-1:   Title
3-14-2:   Intent
3-14-3:   Purpose
3-14-4:   Definitions
3-14-5:   Jurisdictional Area
3-14-6:   Rules For Interpretation Of Floodplain Boundaries
3-14-7:   Compliance
3-14-8:   Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
3-14-9:   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
3-14-10:   Severability
3-14-11:   Disclosure Provision
3-14-12:   Required Base Flood Elevation Data
3-14-13:   Permit Application And Review
3-14-14:   Development Standards In The Floodway
3-14-15:   Development Standards In The Floodway Fringe
3-14-16:   Floodproofing Requirements
3-14-17:   Postconstruction Certification
3-14-18:   Emergency Waiver
3-14-19:   Variances
3-14-20:   Violation And Notice
3-14-21:   Penalties
3-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter is known and cited as the CITY OF HELENA, MONTANA, FLOODPLAIN
ORDINANCE. This chapter is in accordance with and exercising the authority of
the laws of the state of Montana, chapter 5, floodplain and floodway
management, 76-5-101 through 76-5-406, Montana Code Annotated 2009. (Ord. 3159,
8-20-2012)
3-14-2: INTENT:
This chapter is passed in order to comply with state law and to ensure
compliance with the requirements for the continued participation by the city in
the national flood insurance program. Land use regulations which are hereby
adopted are to be applied to all identified floodplains within the city. (Ord.
3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize losses due to flood conditions in the
floodplain. These regulations have been established with the following purposes
intended:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public infrastructure and utilities located in
floodplain;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the national flood insurance program for the benefit of the
residents of Helena.
   B.   Specifically it is the purpose of these regulations to:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property in times of flood, or that cause increased flood heights and
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities,
be developed and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      3.   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
      4.   Regulate filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Regulate the construction of flood barriers which will impact other
property, floodwater depth, or velocity of floodwaters;
      6.   Distinguish between the regulations applicable to the floodway
within the floodplain and those applicable to the floodway fringe;
      7.   Apply more restrictive regulations within the floodway; and
      8.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ALTERATION: Any change or addition to a structure that increases its
external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION: Any obstruction that is not natural and includes any
dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, bridge, conduit,
culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill, or other analogous structure
or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any floodplain.
   BASE FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A base flood is the same as a 100-year flood and
the terms are used interchangeably.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation above sea level of the base flood in
relation to the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) unless
otherwise specified.
   BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade on all sides.
   CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks
of a watercourse or drainway.
   CHANNELIZATION PROJECT: The excavation or construction of an artificial
channel for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a stream from its
established course.
   DEPARTMENT: Community development department.
   DEVELOPMENT: A manmade change to real property, including, but not limited
to, construction of structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, or drilling operations.
   DRAINWAY: A depression two feet (2') or more below the surrounding land
serving to give direction to a current of water less than nine (9) months of
the year and having a bed and well defined banks.
   DWELLING: A permanent structure for human habitation, a place for living
purposes.
   EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES: Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or before the effective date of this chapter.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency that manages
compliance with the national flood insurance program.
   FLOOD: The water of any watercourse or drainway that is above the bank or
outside the channel and banks of the watercourse or drainway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The map on which FEMA has delineated the 100-year
floodplain, the base flood elevations, and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles,
as well as the flood boundary-floodway map and the water surface profiles.
   FLOODPLAIN: The channel of a river or stream and the area adjoining a river
or stream that would be covered by floodwater of a base flood. The floodplain
consists of a floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real and personal property.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream, the limits of which have been designated
pursuant to part 2, chapter 5 of title 76, Montana Code Annotated, and the
adjoining areas that are reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half
foot (1/2').
   FLOODWAY FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside the limits of the
floodway.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as drainage and closure devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: Any floor used for living purposes, storage or recreation.
This includes any floor that could be converted to such a use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure suitable for human habitation that is
transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis, and
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: The North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or other
datum to which base flood elevations are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction,
substantial improvement or alteration commences on or after the effective date
of this chapter.
   100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of occurring in any
given year and is the same as a base flood. A 100-year flood has nearly a
twenty three percent (23%) chance of occurring in a twenty five (25) year
period.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at its largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and d) designed primarily for use as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use and not for use as a
permanent dwelling.
   RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks or analogous material that is placed
along the banks or bed of a stream to alleviate erosion.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, or brook.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, a gas or liquid storage tank,
bridge, culvert, dam, diversion, wall, revetment, dike or other projection that
may impede, retard or alter the pattern of flow of water.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage sustained by a structure where the cost of
restoring the structure to its condition before the damage would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored before the
damage occurred. For purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first construction to any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences. The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or state inventory of historic places.
   SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded,
pervious, generally unaffected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other organic material, and is fitting
for the purpose of supporting the intended use or structure. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-
2012)
3-14-5: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
These regulations shall apply to all floodplains within the jurisdiction of the
city as identified on the flood insurance study and the federal emergency
management agency flood insurance rate map dated September 19, 2012. (Ord.
3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-6: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARIES:
The flood insurance rate map may be used as a guide for determining the
floodplain boundary, but the exact location of the floodplain boundary is where
the base flood elevation intersects the natural ground. The boundaries of the
floodplain are determined by scaling distances on the flood insurance rate maps
and using the floodplain data table contained in the flood insurance study.
(Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-7: COMPLIANCE:
Development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may not
commence without full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-8: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, deed restrictions, or underlying zoning. However, where
this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter
prevail. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-9: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This chapter does not imply that areas outside the regulated flood hazard areas
or permitted land uses within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter does not create liability or cause of action against the
city, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damage that may result
from reliance upon this chapter. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-11: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All owners of property in an identified floodplain as indicated on the flood
insurance rate maps must notify potential buyers or their agents that such
property is subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-12: REQUIRED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA:
Base flood elevation data for developments greater than fifty (50) lots or five
(5) acres is required to be provided by the applicant before development may
begin. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-13: PERMIT APPLICATION AND REVIEW:
   A.   When a floodplain development permit is required by this chapter,
applicants are required to furnish the following information:
      1.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale (including dimensions) showing the
location and elevation of the lot, existing and proposed structure locations,
external dimension of structures, floodproofing measures, mean sea level
elevation of the lowest floor of proposed structures and location of the
channel, street or road finished grade elevations, well locations, and
excavation or fill quantity estimates;
      2.   Specifications for floodproofing, filling, excavating, grading,
riprapping, storage of materials and location of utilities;
      3.   A professional engineer's or registered architect's design
calculations and certification that the proposed activity has been designed to
be in compliance with these regulations; and
      4.   Certification of floodproofing or elevation shall be provided on a
standard form available from the department.
   B.   To determine that the permit specifications and conditions have been
completed, applicants who have received permits are required to furnish the
following at the time of an on site conformance inspection:
      1.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor of the actual mean sea level elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new, altered or substantially improved buildings;
      2.   If floodproofing techniques were used for buildings, the mean sea
level elevation to which the floodproofing was accomplished must be certified
by a structural engineer or licensed architect in the same manner;
      3.   Certification for artificial obstructions other than buildings,
verifying that the activity was accomplished in accordance with this chapter
and the design plans submitted with the application for the permit activity;
and
      4.   Certification of floodproofing or elevation on a standard form
available from the department.
   C.   Floodplain development permits may be granted or denied by the
department on the basis of whether the proposal meets the requirements of this
chapter. Factors that must be considered are:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights,
increased floodwater velocities or alterations in the pattern of flood flow
caused by encroachments;
      2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      3.   The proposed water supply and wastewater systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
      5.   The importance of the services provided by the facility to the
community;
      6.   The requirement of the facility for a waterfront location;
      7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the growth policy and
floodplain management program for the area; and
      10.   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services.
   D.   A floodplain development permit application is considered to have been
automatically granted sixty (60) days after the date of receipt of a complete
application as determined by the department unless the applicant has been
notified that the permit is denied, conditionally approved or additional
information pertinent to the permit review process is required.
   E.   The department may require additional information if necessary to
determine whether the proposal meets the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain development
permit or a variance, the department must prepare a notice containing the facts
pertinent to the application and must publish the notice at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area. Notice must also be sent by first
class mail upon adjacent property owners and by the most efficient method to
the DNRC floodplain management section. The notice must provide at least
fifteen (15) days for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed
activity.
   G.   Copies of all permits granted must be sent, by the most efficient
method, to the DNRC floodplain management section.
   H.   In riverine situations notification by the department must be made to
adjacent communities, the DNRC floodplain management section, and the federal
emergency management agency prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-14: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE FLOODWAY:
   A.   The minimum floodplain development standards listed in this section
apply to the floodway portions of the floodplain as delineated on the flood
insurance rate maps as the numbered A1-30 or AE zones.
   B.   The following open space uses are allowed without a permit within the
floodway, provided that such uses conform to the floodproofing provisions of
this chapter, are not prohibited by any other ordinance, resolution or statute,
and do not require fill, excavation, permanent storage of materials or
equipment or structures other than portable structures:
      1.   Agricultural uses;
      2.   Accessory uses such as loading and parking areas, or emergency
landing strips associated with industrial commercial facilities;
      3.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, parks, wildlife
management and natural areas, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and hiking or
horseback riding trails;
      4.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
      5.   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play
areas;
      6.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are
located at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells;
      7.   Fences, except permanent fences crossing channels; and
      8.   Recreational vehicles provided that they are on the site for fewer
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or be fully licensed and ready
for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and securing devices and has no permanently
attached additions.
   C.   The following may be permitted in the floodway subject to the issuance
of a permit by the department:
      1.   Excavation of material from pits and pools provided that:
         a.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land is left between the edge of
the channel and the edge of the excavation. This buffer strip must be of
sufficient width to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation;
         b.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and
         c.   Excavated material is stockpiled outside the floodway.
      2.   Railroad, highway and street stream crossings provided the crossings
are designed to offer minimal obstruction to flood flow. Stream crossings may
not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one-half foot (1/2')
nor cause a significant increase in flood velocities.
      3.   Limited filling for highway, street and railroad embankments not
associated with stream crossings, provided that:
         a.   Reasonable alternative transportation routes outside the floodway
are not available; and
         b.   Such floodway encroachment is located as far from the stream
channel as possible and shall not result in a cumulative increase in base flood
elevations, after allowable encroachments into the floodway fringe, exceeding
one-half foot (1/2').
      4.   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines, provided that:
         a.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed so the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the base
flood elevation;
         b.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed
to withstand and minimally obstruct flood flows; and
         c.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials
are buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth of scour
for 100-year flood. The maximum depth of scour may be determined by hydraulic
engineering methods acceptable to the department.
      5.   Storage of materials and equipment, provided that:
         a.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by
flooding and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement;
or
         b.   The material or equipment is readily movable within the limited
time available after flood warning.
      6.   Domestic water supply wells, provided that:
         a.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
the surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
         b.   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty five
feet (25') below the ground surface;
         c.   Water supply and electrical lines have watertight seals where the
lines enter the casing;
         d.   All pumps, electrical lines and equipment are either submersible
or adequately floodproofed; and
         e.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and all
building entry locations.
      7.   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in recreational areas
provided that they meet applicable state law.
      8.   Public or private campgrounds provided that:
         a.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or
divert floodwaters; and
         b.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and ready
for highway use. They are ready for highway use if on wheels or jacking system
with wheels intact, are attached to the site with only quick disconnect type
utilities and securing devices and have no permanently attached additions.
      9.   Structures accessory to the uses permitted in this section such as
boat docks, marinas, sheds, picnic shelters, tables and toilets provided that:
         a.   The structures are not intended for human habitation;
         b.   The structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         c.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
         d.   The floodproofing standards of this chapter are met; and
         e.   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer
minimal obstruction to flood flows and also are anchored to prevent flotation.
      10.   Substantial improvements to a structure or alterations to a
structure or artificial obstructions provided that the alteration or
substantial improvement will not raise flood heights and that the structure
will be floodproofed or elevated on a permanent foundation rather than on fill.
      11.   All other artificial obstructions or development not specifically
listed or prohibited by this section.
   D.   Flood control works are allowed by permit within floodways subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Levees and floodwalls are permitted if:
         a.   The proposed levee or floodwall is designed and constructed to
safely convey a 100-year flood; and
         b.   The cumulative effect of the levee or floodwall combined with
allowable floodway fringe encroachments does not increase the unobstructed base
flood elevation more than one-half foot (1/2'). The department may establish
either a lower or higher permissible increase in the base flood elevation for
individual levee projects only with concurrence from the DNRC and the federal
emergency management agency based upon consideration of the following criteria:
            (1)   The estimated cumulative effect of any anticipated future
permissible uses; and
            (2)   The type and amount of existing flood prone development in
the affected area.
         c.   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, is constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the base
flood elevation.
      2.   Riprap, except that which is hand placed, if:
         a.   The riprap is designed to withstand a 100-year flood;
         b.   The riprap does not increase the base flood elevation; and
         c.   The riprap will not increase erosion upstream, downstream or
adjacent to the riprap site.
      3.   Channelization projects if they do not significantly increase the
magnitude, velocity or base flood elevation in the proximity of the project and
that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
      4.   Dams, provided that:
         a.   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the Montana
dam safety act and applicable safety standards; and
         b.   They will not increase flood hazards downstream, either through
operational procedures or improper hydrologic design.
   E.   Permits for the establishment of a water diversion or change in place
of diversion may not be issued if, in the judgment of the department:
      1.   The proposed diversion will significantly increase the upstream base
flood elevation to the detriment of neighboring property;
      2.   The proposed diversion is not designed and constructed to minimize
potential erosion from a 100-year flood; and
      3.   Any permanent diversion structure crossing the full width of the
stream channel is not designed and constructed to safely withstand up to a 100-
year flood.
   F.   The following are prohibited within the floodway:
      1.   New construction of any structure or placement of any manufactured
home;
      2.   Development that would result in erosion of the embankment,
obstruction of the natural flow of waters, or increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of a 100-year flood;
      3.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and wastewater treatment and
disposal systems; and
      4.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials.
(Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-15: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE:
   A.   All uses allowed in the floodway without a permit, are allowed without
a permit in the floodway fringe.
   B.   All uses allowed in the floodway that require a permit, are allowed by
permit within the floodway fringe. In addition, new construction, substantial
improvements and alterations to structures are allowed by permit. This
includes, but is not limited to, residential, commercial and industrial
construction, and suitable fill to be allowed by permit from the department
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Structures or fill must not be prohibited by any other statute,
regulation, ordinance or resolution;
      2.   All structures must be designed and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Additionally all structures must be constructed with materials that are
resistant to flood damage, constructed with methods and practices that minimize
flooding damages;
      3.   New construction, alterations and substantial improvements of
residential structures must be constructed such that:
         a.   The lowest floor elevation including basement; and electrical,
heating, ductwork, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment is two
feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation by elevating with a permanent
foundation; and
         b.   Any crawl space must be designed so that the crawl space floor is
at or above the base flood elevation.
      4.   New construction, alterations and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures must be constructed such that the lowest floor
elevation including basement, and electrical, heating, ductwork, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment is two feet (2') or more above the
base flood elevation by elevating with a permanent foundation. If not elevated
two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation then the nonresidential
structure must be adequately floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Floodproofing must be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing methods
are adequate to withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
pressures, velocities, impact, buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
100-year flood:
         a.   If the structure is designed to allow internal flooding of the
areas below the lowest floor, use of the space shall be limited to parking,
loading areas, building access and storage of equipment or materials not
appreciably affected by floodwaters. The floors and walls shall be designed and
constructed of materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Walls must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for entry and exit of
floodwaters. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, other
coverings, or devices which permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters;
         b.   Structures whose lowest floors are used for a purpose other than
parking, loading, or storage of materials resistant to flooding shall be
floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. Floodproofing must include impermeable membranes or materials for
floors and walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors and other
openings. These structures must be designed to withstand the hydrostatic,
hydrodynamic and buoyancy effects of a 100-year flood; and
         c.   Floodproofing of electrical, heating and plumbing systems must
also be accomplished in accordance with section
3-14-16 of this chapter.
      5.   Fill material placed in the floodway fringe must be stable,
compacted, well graded, pervious, generally unaffected by water and frost,
devoid of trash or similar foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other
organic material, and appropriate for the purpose of supporting the intended
use or permanent structure;
      6.   Roads, streets, highways and rail lines must be designed to minimize
increase in flood heights. Where failure or interruption of transportation
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety, the facility
must be located two feet (2') above the base flood elevation;
      7.   Agricultural structures that have a low damage potential, such as
sheds, barns, shelters, and hay or grain storage structures must be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation or collapse and all electrical facilities must be
placed above the base flood elevation; and
      8.   Recreational vehicles, if they are on the site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use, must
meet the elevating requirements of subsection B3 of this section and be
securely anchored.
   C.   The following are prohibited within the floodway fringe:
      1.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal; and
      2.   Storage of highly toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive
materials. Storage of petroleum products may be allowed by permit if stored on
compacted fill at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
anchored to a permanent foundation to prevent downstream movement. (Ord. 3159,
8-20-2012)
3-14-16: FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When floodproofing is required by this chapter the methods used must be
certified as adequate by a registered professional engineer or architect.
   B.   Permitted floodproofing systems must conform to the conditions listed
below and the floodproofing standards listed in subsection
3-14-15B4 of this chapter for commercial and industrial structures:
      1.   Electrical Systems:
         a.   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation;
         b.   Portable or movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation if the equipment can be disconnected by a single
submersible plug and socket assembly;
         c.   The main power service line shall have automatic or manually
operated electrical disconnect equipment located at an accessible location
outside the floodplain or above the base flood elevation; and
         d.   All electrical wiring systems installed at or below the base
flood elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
      2.   Heating Systems:
         a.   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed in gas
furnace supply lines so that the fuel supply is automatically shut off when
floodwaters reach the floor level where the furnace is located;
         b.   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation; and
         c.   Electric heating systems must be installed in accordance with the
provisions of subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Plumbing Systems:
         a.   Wastewater service lines, except those to be buried and sealed in
vaults, must have check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into
permitted structures; and
         b.   All toilet stools, sinks, urinals, and drains must be located so
the lowest point of possible water entry is at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-17: POSTCONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATION:
An applicant is required to submit certification by a registered professional
engineer, architect, land surveyor, or other qualified person designated by the
department that finished fill and building floor elevations, floodproofing,
hydraulic design, or other flood protection measures were constructed and
installed in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-18: EMERGENCY WAIVER:
   A.   Emergency repair or replacement of severely damaged public
transportation facilities, public water and wastewater facilities and flood
control works may be authorized and the floodplain development permit
requirements may be waived if:
      1.   Upon notification and prior to the emergency repair or replacement,
the department determines that an emergency condition exists warranting
immediate action; and
      2.   The department agrees upon the nature and type of proposed emergency
repair or replacement.
   B.   Authorization to undertake emergency repair or replacement work may be
given verbally if the department feels that such a written authorization would
unduly delay the emergency work. Such verbal authorization must be followed by
a written authorization describing the emergency condition, the type of
emergency work agreed upon and stating that a verbal authorization had been
previously given. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-19: VARIANCES:
   A.   The city commission may, by variance, grant a permit that is not in
compliance with the minimum standards contained in these regulations according
to this section.
   B.   An applicant desiring to obtain a variance from the requirements of
this chapter must present a completed floodplain application and required
supporting material must be submitted, and a completed variance application
specific to the variance request including facts and information addressing the
criteria in this section.
   C.   The city commission must hold a public hearing on the variance and
development permit application. Public notice must be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in Lewis And Clark County not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of hearing as required by law. The notice
must include a summary of the application, including the location and size of
the development, and specify where additional information can be obtained.
   D.   The city commission may, by variance, grant a floodplain development
permit that is not in compliance with the minimum standards contained in this
chapter according to the following procedures:
      1.   Variances may not be issued for areas within a floodway if any
increase in flood elevations or velocities, after allowable encroachments into
the floodway fringe, would result.
      2.   Variances may only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights to existing insurable buildings, additional threats
to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, or conflict
with existing state and local laws;
         c.   A determination that a proposed use would be adequately
floodproofed;
         d.   A determination that a reasonable alternate location outside the
floodplain is not available; and
         e.   A determination that the variance requested is the minimum
necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard.
      3.   Variances granted must be issued in writing from the city commission
and must notify the applicant that:
         a.   A specific variance is granted, and certain conditions are
attached;
         b.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
floodplain elevation will result in increased premium rates; and
         c.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks
to life and property. The department shall maintain records of the variance
notification and actions, including justification for their issuance, and
forward copies of all variance actions to the DNRC and the federal emergency
management agency. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
3-14-20: VIOLATION AND NOTICE:
Any development, new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration that
is not in compliance with this chapter is a violation and punishable as
provided in this chapter. The department must bring any violation of these
regulations to the attention of the city attorney and the DNRC. (Ord. 3159, 8-
20-2012)
3-14-21: PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements, including permit approval prior to development in the
floodplain is a misdemeanor. Any person who violates these regulations or fails
to comply with any of its requirements must, upon conviction, be fined not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned in jail for not more than ten
(10) days or both. Each day's continuance of a violation is a separate and
distinct offense. (Ord. 3159, 8-20-2012)
CHAPTER 15
REVIEW PROCESS FOR DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS,
STRUCTURES, AND SITES
SECTION:
3-15-1:   Intent
3-15-2:   Definitions
3-15-3:   Demolition Permit Required
3-15-4:   Determination If Review Is Required
3-15-5:   Preapplication Meeting
3-15-6:   Application Requirements
3-15-7:   Administrative Application Review
3-15-8:   Demolition Review Procedure And Criteria
3-15-9:    Issuance Of A Demolition Permit
3-15-10: Application After Denial
3-15-1: INTENT:
   A.   General Intent:
      1.   Historic districts and historic buildings, structures, sites, and
contributing properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places
recognize national, state and local architectural, historical, social and
cultural values. Helena's historic districts embody the area's identity to the
community, provide a "sense of place", or the connection with the historic
places we value, for residents and visitors, and provide recognition for the
area (including an attraction for heritage tourism); provide a defined area to
promote economic incentives (such as federal tax credits, the local tax
abatement program and grants for building rehabilitation); represent a
financial investment for property owners and protect property values; and
promote tourism, as a benefit to the local economy, by protecting the area's
significant historical values.
      2.   Helena's historic districts and historic buildings, structures,
sites, and contributing properties include a wealth of architectural variety;
contribute to greater knowledge, awareness and understanding of the area's
cultural development over time; and encourage the integration of historic
preservation into the private, local, state and federal decision-making
process.
      3.   Understanding that the National Register of Historic Places does not
protect nor prevent the destruction of historic buildings, structures, and
sites, the intent of this ordinance is to accomplish, at the local level, what
the National Register of Historic Places cannot.
   B.   Intent For The Demolition Permit Review Process:
      1.   The purpose of the demolition permit review process is to protect
and preserve the historical and archeological heritage of Helena, because the
historic district designation is not permanent, and the designation and related
benefits can be lost forever if changes and alternatives are not carefully
considered.
      2.   This section applies to those buildings, structures, and sites
within the city that are individually listed on the National Register of
Historic Places and those properties located within the city's historic
districts which are designated by the state historic preservation office (SHPO)
as contributing.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are applicable:
                                      A structure created to shelter any form
BUILDING:                             of human activity, such as a house, barn,
                                      church, hotel, or similar structure.
                                      Any building, structure or site so
CONTRIBUTING:                         designated by the SHPO that contributes
                                      to the overall fabric of the historic
                                      district.
                                      To raze, destroy, dismantle, deface or in
                                      any other manner cause partial or total
                                      destruction of a historic building,
                                      structure, or site in a historic district
DEMOLITION:                           or otherwise completely alter the
                                      building, structure, or site so that it
                                      no longer qualifies for contributing
                                      status, or listing on the National
                                      Register.
                                      An employee assigned by both the Lewis
                                      and Clark County Commission and the
                                      Helena City Commission to coordinate day
                                      to day activities of the Heritage Tourism
                                      Council (HTC); to assist with local
                                      historic preservation and heritage
HERITAGE PRESERVATION OFFICER (HPO):  tourism programs; to advise and provide
                                      assistance to government agencies and the
                                      public; to review and provide comment on
                                      any development affecting historic
                                      properties and heritage tourism,
                                      including demolition review of historic
                                      structures in accordance with this
                                      chapter.i
                                      Formally known as the Lewis and Clark
                                      County Heritage Preservation and Tourism
                                      Development Council, the HTC is a joint
                                      advisory body of the Lewis and Clark
HERITAGE TOURISM COUNCIL (HTC):       County Commission and the City of Helena
                                      Commission on matters related to historic
                                      preservation and development within
                                      historic districts and heritage and
                                      cultural tourism.
                                      Any building, structure, or site herein
                                      defined as contributing to a historic
HISTORIC:                             district, or any building, structure, or
                                      site individually listed on the National
                                      Register of Historic Places.
                                      Any area so designated by SHPO and/or so
HISTORIC DISTRICT:                    designated by the City of Helena or Lewis
                                      and Clark County.
                                      A list maintained by the national park
                                      service of properties such as buildings,
NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES  structures, sites, districts and objects
(NATIONAL REGISTER):                  that are important in history,
                                      prehistory, architectural history,
                                      engineering history, archeology or
                                      culture.
                                      The location of a significant event, a
                                      prehistoric or historic occupation or
                                      activity, or a building or structure,
SITE:                                 whether standing, ruined, or vanished,
                                      where the location itself maintains
                                      historical or archaeological value
                                      regardless of the value of any existing
                                      structure.
                                      The person who has been designated by the
                                      Governor or by State statute to
                                      administer the State Historic
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER   Preservation Program, including
(SHPO):                               identifying and nominating eligible
                                      properties to the National Register and
                                      otherwise administering applications for
                                      listing historic properties in the
                                      National Register.
                                      A work made up of interdependent and
                                      interrelated parts in a definite pattern
                                      of organization. Structures are generally
STRUCTURE:                            constructed as part of an engineering
                                      project that is large in scale. Examples
                                      of structures include, but are not
                                      limited to, towers, smokestacks, walls,
                                      sculptures, monuments, and bridges.
 
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-3: DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED:
   No historic building, structure, or site shall be demolished without
obtaining a demolition permit from the City of Helena Building Division. No
demolition permit shall be issued unless such issuance conforms with all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the State of Montana adopted International
Codes and amendments.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-4: DETERMINATION IF REVIEW IS REQUIRED:
   Upon receipt of the completed application for a general building demolition
permit, a determination by staff shall be made if the property is individually
listed on the National Register or is designated as contributing to the
historic district. If the property is determined to be noncontributing to the
historic district, a general building demolition permit may be issued.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-5: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
   If the property is determined to be individually listed on the National
Register or is a contributing property to the historic district, the applicant
shall meet with the City/County Historic Preservation Officer (HPO) to present
the proposal for demolition. The HPO and/or HTC staff shall provide procedural
information about the historic property demolition requirements and discuss
options for the property, such as, but not limited to, alternative designs,
grants, tax credits, tax abatements, purchase, land exchanges and building
relocation.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   For any property determined to be individually listed on the National
Register or a contributing property to the historic district, an application on
forms provided by the city, along with the required application fee, shall be
submitted to the Building Division. No application shall be deemed as being
filed unless accompanied with the required fees or until the required fees are
submitted.
   In addition to materials, items, or information required of a general
building demolition permit, an application for a historic property demolition
shall include the following information:
   A.   Legal description, property address and the year the building or
structure was built.
   B.   A written description and current photographs that illustrate the
present condition of the building, structure, or site and which show the
necessity or justification for the demolition request.
   C.   A description of the proposal and the reason demolition is requested.
   D.   A description of the surrounding neighborhood and how the proposed loss
of a contributing property will not impact the district's SHPO designation as a
historic district.
   E.   Cost estimates to rehabilitate or repair the structure and the name of
the person or firm preparing the estimates. Estimates shall be supplemented
with documentation or reports providing justification for the demolition.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-7: ADMINISTRATIVE APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Upon receipt of a historic property demolition application, the
Building Division shall transmit the application and supporting materials to
the HPO.
   B.   Within fifteen (15) full working days of receipt of a historic property
demolition application, the HPO shall determine whether the application
contains all of the listed materials required in 3-15-6 of this chapter and
which allow for an adequate and sufficient review of the application and shall
give written notice to the applicant, or applicant's designated agent, of the
determination.
      1.   If the HPO determines that materials are missing from the
application, or the submitted materials are not sufficient for a review of the
demolition request, the HPO will identify those materials that are not in the
application or are not sufficient for review by written notification to the
applicant, or applicant's designated agent. The HPO shall take no further
action on the application until the missing or insufficient materials are
submitted.
      2.   In the event the missing or insufficient materials are not provided
by the applicant or applicant's designated agent within six (6) months of
notification to the applicant or applicant's agent of the incomplete
application, all submitted application materials will be returned to the
applicant or the applicant's designated agent. Subsequent resubmittal of the
historic property demolition application requires payment of a new application
fee.
      3.   If the applicant or applicant's designated agent resubmits the
application to correct deficiencies noted in the written notice, the HPO will
have fifteen (15) full working days to notify the applicant, or applicant's
designated agent, in writing whether the corrected application contains the
listed or deficient materials identified in the written notice.
      4.   This process will be repeated until the applicant submits an
application that contains the elements initially identified as missing or
deficient in the notice or the application is withdrawn.
      5.   Public hearing dates may be tentatively scheduled after the
application has been determined to be complete and sufficient for review of the
demolition request.
      6.   A determination that an application is complete and contains
information sufficient for review of the demolition request does not ensure
that the proposed demolition will be approved or conditionally approved by the
City Commission and does not limit the ability of City staff, the HPO, HTC, or
the City Commission to request additional information during the review
process.
      7.   If the applicant, or applicant's agent, disagrees with the HPO's
determination that an application is incomplete or otherwise does not contain
information sufficient for a review of the demolition request, the applicant or
applicant's designated agent may appeal, in writing, to the City Community
Development Director. The City Community Development Director shall render a
written decision after receipt of a written appeal.
(Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-8: DEMOLITION REVIEW PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA:
   A.   For a property determined to be individually listed on the National
Register or a contributing property to the historic district, the Historic
Tourism Council (HTC) shall conduct a legally advertised public hearing.
      1.   Notice of the hearing must be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city once, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date.
   B.   At the public hearing the HTC shall review and evaluate:
      1.    Information submitted that satisfies the application requirements;
      2.    Architectural and/or historical significance of the structure, its
relationship to the district and/or its relationship to a larger project;
      3.   Consider public testimony on the proposed demolition; and
      4.   Any other relevant information.
   C.   The HTC shall make a recommendation to the City Commission for the
approval, conditional approval, or denial of the demolition application. The
HTC's recommendation must be based on information contained in the required
application materials and any information presented at the public hearing.
   The HTC's recommended conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      1.    Those needed to mitigate adverse impacts that the historic
demolition may have on the historic district and adjacent historic properties;
      2.   Those needed to mitigate adverse environmental impacts to the
immediate area;
      3.   A timeframe within which the demolition must take place; and
      4.   A set delay in the demolition so that alternatives to demolition may
be sought after, such as relocation or purchase, for further coordination of
salvaging of architectural features and elements, or for additional historical
documentation.
   D.   The City Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the
application.
      1.   Notice of the hearing must be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city once, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date.
   E.   The City Commission shall consider:
      1.   Information provided to the HTC;
      2.   The HTC recommendation; and
      3.   Any other relevant information including, but not limited to, the
property's historical significance or the economic and technical feasibility of
the project.
   The City Commission shall then approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
demolition application within sixty (60) working days after the application has
been deemed complete and sufficient for review, unless the applicant, or
applicant's designated agent, and the City Commission agree to an extension or
suspension of the review period, not to exceed a total of one hundred eighty
(180) days.
(Ord. 2639, 11-16-1992; amd. Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-9: ISSUANCE OF A DEMOLITION PERMIT:
   A.   The City building department shall issue the demolition permit within
five (5) business days of each the following requirements being met:
      1.   The City Commission approves or conditionally approves the historic
property demolition request; and
      2.   Applicant provides City staff and the HPO with the following
documentation, which must be accompanied by a written narrative or detailed
individual descriptions:
         a.   Using the preferred standards in the latest edition of the US
Department of the Interior's Consolidated and Updated Photographic Policy for
National Register of Historic Places, photographic and/or videographic
documentation of all rooms in the interior and all sides of the exterior of the
building(s) or structure(s) that are proposed to be demolished; and
         b.   Using the preferred standards in the latest edition of the US
Department of the Interior's Consolidated and Updated Photographic Policy for
National Register of Historic Places, photographic documentation of salvageable
interior and exterior architectural elements of the existing building or
structure.
   B.   If the demolition permit is issued, the demolition permit holder must:
      1.   To the greatest extent possible, salvage, reuse, or make available
for reuse the salvageable interior exterior architectural elements of the
existing building or structure that were photographed and documented in 3-15-
9A.2.b.; and
      2.   Photograph and video the demolition process and provide a copy of
the photographs and video, along with a written narrative, to City staff and
the HPO.
   C.   Upon completion of the demolition process and prior to close-out of the
Building Division's general building demolition permit, an interpretative sign
with a photograph(s) explaining the local, state, and/or national significance
of the demolished historic property shall be installed on the property. Prior
to installation, this sign shall be reviewed by the HPO or HPO staff. In
consultation with the HPO, preference shall be given to the property owner as
to the text or other material included on this sign.
   D.   Final Inspection Required:
      1.   After the completion of demolition activities, as permitted, a final
inspection of the site by building division staff shall be required.
      2.   In addition to a review of the site, a review of the required
documentation, signage, and approval conditions must be conducted by the HPO or
designated staff.
(Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
3-15-10: APPLICATION AFTER DENIAL:
   If the City Commission denies the application, no further historic property
demolition applications may be considered for the subject property for six (6)
months from the date of the public hearing wherein the application is denied by
the City Commission, unless the City Commission finds there are changed
circumstances sufficient to warrant a new application. Any new application must
be accompanied with a new application fee.
(Ord. 3320, 7-15-2024)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1:   Definitions
4-1-2:   License Required
4-1-3:   Responsibilities Of The Licensee
4-1-4:   Application Requirements
4-1-5:   Renewal Requirements
4-1-6:   Fees
4-1-7:   Sale Or Transfer
4-1-8:   Suspension And Revocation
4-1-9:   Enforcement
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations have the meanings given herein. Unless specifically specified,
terms have the meanings as defined in title 11 of this Code.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES SELLER: A commercial enterprise that includes the sale
of alcoholic beverages as a distributer or directly to consumers, including but
not limited to, bars, taverns, and general retail establishments.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE: Any occupation, vocation, pursuit, trade, industry,
profession, or commercial activity of any kind, carried on for purposes of
economic benefit or profit or engaged in for livelihood or gain, including
direct sales and activities conducted as home occupations. This definition does
not include the practice of law, nor does it include any business which the
Montana Legislature has specifically declared that cities with self-governing
powers may not regulate. This definition does not include any person because of
that person's status as an employee of any unit of government or of any private
employer. This definition does not include any nonprofit group or organization
which is recognized as a nonprofit group or organization by the United States
Internal Revenue Service.
   FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT EMPLOYEES: The number of full-time equivalent employees
is determined by dividing the total number of hours worked by all employees of
the business, including self-employed persons, in the previous calendar year by
two thousand eighty (2,080). The resulting quotient, rounded up to the next
whole number, is the number of full- time equivalent employees.
   LICENSEE: The legal owner of a commercial enterprise licensed pursuant to
this chapter.
   PAWNBROKER: A commercial enterprise that loans money on the person's own
behalf or for another, upon personal property, personal security, pawns, or
pledges, or engages in the business of purchasing articles of personal property
and reselling or agreeing to resell the articles to the vendors or their
assigns at prices agreed on at or before the time of purchase. This definition
includes commercial enterprises that buy, sell, or deal in secondhand
merchandise, including dealing in such merchandise on consignment. (Ord. 3250,
5-20-2019)
4-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   All Commercial Enterprises Must Be Licensed: A person conducting,
operating, transacting, engaging in, or carrying on any commercial enterprise
within the City must apply for and obtain a license as provided in this
chapter.
      1.   Separate License Required For Each Location Of Each Commercial
Enterprise:
         a.   Each separate commercial enterprise is required to be licensed
separately even if owned by the same owner.
         b.   Each location of the commercial enterprise requires a separate
license. A separate application must be submitted for each location.
      2.   Certain Commercial Enterprises Subject To Additional Requirements: A
commercial enterprise that engages in the following activities as part of its
operations is required to obtain an additional endorsement, which may be
subject to additional application requirements, as determined by the City, and
fees as determined by the City Commission, as part of their business license.
         a.   Alcoholic beverages seller.
         b.   Pawnbroker.
         c.   Medical marijuana dispensary.
         d.   Marijuana grow operations.
         e.   Home occupation.
         f.   Tobacco retailer.
         g.   Casino.
      3.   Prohibited Commercial Enterprises Not To Be Licensed: No provision
herein contained may be construed so as to license any commercial enterprise
prohibited by any law of the United States or the State of Montana, or by any
provision of this Code, except that medical marijuana dispensaries and grow
operations are permitted.
      4.   Exclusions: The requirements of this chapter do not apply to the
following:
         a.   Persons or entities with no base of operations in Lewis and Clark
County who exclusively deal with and contact licensed businesses only by
salesmen, telephone or mail.
         b.   Persons under eighteen (18) years old.
   B.   Licenses Are A Privilege: All licenses issued pursuant to provisions of
this Code are revocable privileges, and no holder thereof acquires any vested
rights therein.
   C.   Form Of License: The license issued must be in the form prescribed by
the City and must be signed in blank by the Mayor and countersigned by the City
Finance Director when granted. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LICENSEE:
   A.   Notification Requirements: The licensee must notify the City within
thirty (30) days if any of the information contained within the licensee's
initial application has changed. Failure to update the licensee's contact
information may result in suspension or revocation of the license as provided
for in this chapter.
   B.   License To Be Displayed: The license issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter must be conspicuously displayed in such a manner that a City
official may observe the same upon entering the licensee's place of business.
If the commercial enterprise operates out of multiple locations, a copy of the
business license must be displayed at each location. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Requirements: To obtain a license under this chapter, the legal
owner or the legal representative of the commercial enterprise must submit a
complete application and pay the non-refundable applicable fee to the City.
   B.   Initial Application Form:
      1.   The form of the application must be uniform for all applicants as
determined by the City, but must contain the following:
         a.   Legal name of the owner of the commercial enterprise to be
licensed.
         b.   Physical and mailing address of the commercial enterprise. If the
commercial enterprise operates out of multiple locations, the physical address
of each location, including warehouses, must be listed.
         c.   If the commercial enterprise is operated by a separate legal
entity, the full name of said legal entity and the entity's registered agent as
registered with the Montana Secretary of State.
         d.   Description of the nature of the commercial enterprise in
sufficient detail to determine if additional licensure or endorsement is
required.
         e.   Whether the commercial enterprise is being conducted as a home
occupation.
         f.   The number of full-time equivalent employees employed by the
commercial enterprise.
         g.   Affirmation that the commercial enterprise will be conducted in
compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, rules, and
regulations.
         h.   Any other information as may be required for administration of
this title.
      2.   The application form must be signed by the legal owner or the legal
representative of the commercial enterprise verifying that all information
contained within the application is true and correct.
   C.   No License Will Be Issued If Arrears Are Owed To The City: A business
license cannot be issued to any person or commercial enterprise if the person,
commercial enterprise, or the owner or any officer thereof, owes any arrears to
the City.
   D.   Initial Application Review Process:
      1.   The City has ten (10) business days to review the application and to
either approve, deny, or request additional information from the applicant.
Requests for additional information must be in writing and state the reason for
the request. If additional information is requested, the City has an additional
ten (10) business days from receipt of the requested information to either
approve or deny the application.
      2.   If an application for a license is denied, the denial must be in
writing and state the reason for the denial.
      3.   The applicant may appeal the denial of a license to the City
Manager. The appeal must be in writing and clearly state the grounds for
appeal. The City Manager has ten (10) business days from the date of receipt of
the appeal request to review the information contained within the application
and the written notice of appeal and to issue a decision to either grant or
deny the application. The City Manager's decision constitutes the final
administrative decision upon the application. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-5: RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Term Of License: A license issued pursuant to this chapter is valid
from January 1 to December 31 of the year in which the license is issued.
   B.   License To Be Renewed Annually:
      1.   A license issued pursuant to this title must be renewed annually no
later than February 1 of each year.
      2.   To renew a license, the licensee must submit a renewal application
provided by the City and pay the annual license renewal fee.
   C.   Renewal Application Form: The form of the application for renewal must
be uniform for all applicants as determined by the Finance Director.
   D.   Penalty For Late Renewal: A penalty fee will be imposed in the event of
any late renewal in the amount as established by the City Commission. The
penalty must be paid prior to issuance of any new or renewed license. (Ord.
3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-6: FEES:
The amount of any fee provided for in this chapter is to be determined by the
City Commission. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-7: SALE OR TRANSFER:
A license issued pursuant to this title may be transferred upon sale or
transfer of the commercial enterprise for which a license was issued. A request
for a license transfer must be submitted to the City using the forms provided
along with any applicable processing fees. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-8: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Definitions:
   ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD: Information and documents considered by the City
Manager in making the City Manager's decision.
   REVOCATION: Elimination of the licensee's license. Licensee must reapply for
a new license upon expiration of the revocation period.
   SUSPENSION: A temporary suspension of a license for a period less than a
year. A suspended license is automatically reinstated upon expiration of the
suspension period without any additional action from the licensee.
   B.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation Of A License: The City Manager may
suspend or revoke a license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following
reasons:
      1.   Upon clear evidence that the commercial enterprise is operating in
violation of Federal, State, or local rule, law, or regulation, including
violations of Building and Fire Codes.
      2.   Upon clear evidence that the license was obtained on false
information.
      3.   Denying entry to City officials conducting an inspection pursuant to
subsection
4-1-9A of this chapter.
      4.   Failure to notify the City of change in contact information.
      5.   When suspension or revocation is required by law.
      6.   Any reason determined to be sufficiently egregious to warrant
revocation.
   C.   Informal Resolution: Nothing in this section prohibits the parties from
engaging in informal resolution.
   D.   Initial Determination:
      1.   The City Manager must notify the licensee, in writing, by certified
mail, of the reason for the suspension or revocation of the license and the
duration thereof. If the reason for the suspension is due to an alleged
violation of Federal, State, or local rule, law, or regulation, the notice must
cite to the rule, law, or regulation in question and recite the facts that
support the alleged violation. The notice must also include any supporting
documents relied upon by the City Manager.
      2.   Upon receipt of the notice provided for in subsection D1 of this
section, the licensee has ten (10) business days to provide a written response
to the City Manager.
      3.   After receipt of the licensee's written response the City Manager
has ten (10) business days to issue the final decision revoking, suspending, or
reinstating the license. The City Manager may request City officials to conduct
additional inspections to verify the information contained in the licensee's
written response. The licensee must be informed of the City Manager's final
decision in writing by certified mail.
   E.   Request For Redetermination:
      1.   A licensee who has received an adverse final decision from the City
Manager may request a redetermination prior to appealing to the City
Commission. The request for a redetermination must be made within five (5)
business days of the date the final decision is mailed. The request for a
redetermination must be in writing and include new or additional information
relevant to the issue(s) in dispute. The request must include the new
information which the City Manager is to consider.
      2.   Upon receipt of a request for a redetermination, the City Manager
has ten (10) business days in which to consider the request. The City Manager's
redetermination decision must be issued in writing and mailed to the licensee
by certified mail. The City Manager will only issue one redetermination for
each licensee who receives an adverse decision.
   F.   Appeal To The City Commission:
      1.   Licensee may appeal the City Manager's final decision or the
redetermination decision to the City Commission for reconsideration. Licensee
must notify the City Manager, within ten (10) business days from the date of
the decision, in writing, if the licensee wishes to appeal the decision.
      2.   The City Commission must hear the appeal within sixty (60) calendar
days of receiving the request for an appeal. The period for the hearing may be
extended with the consent of the licensee. The City Commission review will be
limited to the administrative record and the testimony of the licensee
presented at the hearing. Upon conclusion of the hearing the City Commission
may revoke, suspend, reinstate, or take any other action with respect to the
license as permitted by law.
   G.   Final Administrative Decision:
      1.   If no appeal is requested, the City Manager's decision constitutes
the final administrative decision with respect to the license.
      2.   If the City Manager's decision is appealed to the City Commission,
the City Commission's decision constitutes the final administrative decision.
   H.   Effective Date Of Revocation: The suspension or revocation takes effect
on the date the final administrative decision is issued and all time lines for
redetermination or appeals have passed.
   I.   Effect Of Revocation: A licensee whose license has been revoked may not
apply for a new license during the revocation period. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
4-1-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Commercial Enterprise Subject To Inspection: City officials may conduct
periodic inspection of the commercial enterprise for which a license has been
issued to assure compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws,
rules, and regulations, including compliance with Building and Fire Codes.
   B.   Civil Penalty: Any commercial enterprise found to be operating in
violation of this title is subject to a civil penalty in the amount equal to
the license fee for each violation and cost of enforcement, including cost of
investigation, attorney fees, and court costs. For the purposes of this
section, each day of operation in violation of the title constitutes a separate
violation. (Ord. 3250, 5-20-2019)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS REGULATIONS, GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-2-1:   Pawnbrokers
4-2-2:   Sale Of Tobacco
4-2-1: PAWNBROKERS:
   A.   Records: The licensee must keep or cause to be kept a record, in
triplicate, on a form numbered consecutively, prescribed by the Chief of
Police, written in ink without changes or erasing, showing the exact time of
acceptance of any article in the course of business, an accurate description of
each and any article received so that same can be easily identified.
A true copy of the record must be open for inspection by the Chief of Police
and members of the Police Department at all reasonable hours.
The record must be kept for one year from the date of receipt of the article.
A true and exact copy of the record must be delivered immediately to the person
from whom such article was received and the original copy of such report must
be mailed or delivered to the Chief of Police before twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon on the date following the receipt of such article.
The record must contain the following information:
      1.   A detailed description of the article received, including, number,
color, size, unusual marks, make and model, and any other matter of
identification;
      2.   The name and residence of the person from whom such article is
received;
      3.   Physical description of the person from whom the article was
received, including the person's height, weight, age, nationality, color,
complexion, color of hair, eyes, sex, and distinguishing marks;
      4.   The terms and conditions of the transaction, including the rate of
interest charged, and amount allowed on each article received.
   B.   Inspection By Police; Stolen Articles: All articles must be produced
for inspection on demand by the Chief of Police or a police officer. Any
article designated by the Chief of Police or a police officer as being stolen
property cannot be offered for sale, returned to the person from whom the
article was received, sold, or otherwise disposed of in any manner thereafter
except upon written permission of the Chief of Police or order from a court of
record.
   C.   Sale Of Articles: No article received can be sold, removed from the
City or otherwise disposed of until after the passing of five (5) days after
the article has been reported to the Chief of Police as set forth in subsection
A of this section unless personally inspected by the Chief of Police or a
member of the Police Department and released for sale. All articles received
must be kept within the licensee's place of business when not so inspected and
released during said period, grouped by date received in a manner satisfactory
to the Chief of Police.
   D.   Stolen Property To Be Reported: The licensee must report immediately to
the chief of police any article coming into the possession of the licensee or
licensee's place of business which has been reported or advertised as lost or
stolen.
   E.   Proof Of Age And Legal Identification: Prior to accepting items for
pawn a duly licensed pawnbroker must require the presentation of a birth
certificate or other satisfactory evidence of age and identification.
(Ord. 1516, 12-27-1954; amd. Ord. 2140, 12-3-1979; amd. Ord. 3253, 5-20-2019;
amd. Ord. 3263, 8-26-2019)
4-2-2: SALE OF TOBACCO:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of the City Commission in enacting this
section to protect public health and welfare by reducing access to flavored
tobacco products and self-service access to tobacco products, making it easier
to quit and more difficult to start.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
section, have the meanings defined in this subsection unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
   DISTRIBUTE: To give, deliver, sample, or sell; to offer to give, deliver,
sample, or sell; or to cause or hire another person to give, deliver, sample,
or sell or offer to give, deliver, sample, or sell.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY: The open display or storage of tobacco products in a
manner that is physically accessible in any way to the general public without
the assistance of the retailer or employee of the retailer and without a direct
person-to-person transfer between the purchaser and the retailer or employee of
the retailer.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or
that contains nicotine that is intended for human consumption or is likely to
be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or
ingested by any other means, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars,
hookahs, pipes, electronic cigarettes, e-cigars, electronic pipes, vape pens,
or electronic hookahs. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, "tobacco
product" includes any component, part, or accessory intended or reasonably
expected to be used with a tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. The
term does not include drugs, devices, or combination products approved for sale
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   TOBACCO RETAILER: Any person who distributes tobacco, or tobacco products.
"Tobacco retailing" means the doing of any of these things. This definition is
without regard to the quantity of tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia
sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
   C.   Sale Of Tobacco Products By Self-Service Display Prohibited: A tobacco
retailer may not distribute tobacco products by means of a self-service
display. The purchaser may not take possession of the tobacco product until
after payment has been received and processed. This section does not apply to
facilities where the tobacco retailer ensures that no person younger than
eighteen (18) years of age is present, or permitted to enter, at any time.
   D.   Compliance And Inspections:
      1.   Remedies Are Cumulative: The remedies provided by this section are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
      2.   Inspections:
         a.   Inspections will occur biannually during the first year of
ordinance implementation.
         b.   Inspections will occur annually after the first year of
implementation.
      3.   Violations: Inspections will be conducted following all confirmed
violations.
   E.   Violations And Penalties: It is a violation for any person to fail to
comply with the requirements of this section. If a person is found to have
violated this section, the person may be assessed a civil penalty as follows:
      1.   Violations within sixty (60) days of effective date of this section
will result in a warning letter and education.
      2.   Upon a first violation of this section City will impose a civil
penalty of at least five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   Upon a second violation of this section City will impose a civil
penalty of at least seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      4.   Upon a third violation of this section City will impose a civil
penalty of at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense. Failure to comply with
any provision of this section constitutes grounds for the denial of, refusal to
renew, suspension of, or revocation of any food, liquor, tobacco, or other
business license issued by the City.
   F.   Severability: If any portion of this section, or its application to any
circumstances, is held invalid, the remaining portions are severable, and must
be given effect to the maximum extent possible. (Ord. 3253, 5-20-2019)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1:   Possession Of Intoxicating Beverages
5-1-2:   Parachute Jumping And The Landing Of Aircraft Within The City
5-1-3:   Firearms And Other Weapons; Discharge; Exceptions
5-1-4:   Smoking Prohibited In Certain Places
5-1-5:   Fireworks Prohibited
5-1-6:   Penalty
5-1-1: POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession on the streets,
alleys, parks or on any other public premises in this City any beer, wine,
liquor, or other intoxicating beverage in any container on which the cap, top,
seal, cork, or other closing device has been removed or opened or in any other
container from which such a beverage can be drunk directly. Provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any individual who possesses alcohol or
intoxicating beverages pursuant to a permit issued by the City Manager, or his/
her designee, in accordance with provisions of this Code. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
5-1-2: PARACHUTE JUMPING AND THE LANDING OF AIRCRAFT WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   No person may make a parachute jump, and no pilot in command of an
aircraft may allow a parachute jump to be made from the aircraft within the
limits of the City unless approval for such jump has first been obtained from
the City Manager.
   B.   No pilot in command of any aircraft or balloon shall land the same
within the confines of the City, except at the City-County airport or the
landing pad at any hospital without having first obtained the approval of the
City Manager.
   C.   No person may soar, glide or sail in the air with any nonengine driven
infernal device or machine attached to his body by means of a harness within
the confines of the City unless specific approval for such activity has been
obtained from the City Manager.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to prohibit the
landing of any parachutist, aircraft or balloon within the confines of the City
if an actual emergency exists which reasonably requires such landing. (Ord.
3238, 1-8-2018)
5-1-3: FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS; DISCHARGE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, the term "firearm" means any weapon that can
discharge a projectile by way of an explosive charge.
   B.   Except as provided in sections
5-1-3(C) and
5-1-3(D), it is unlawful for a person to:
      1.   Carry on or about their person an unconcealed firearm or air gun in
a publicly owned and occupied building under the City of Helena's jurisdiction;
or
      2.   Discharge any firearm, air gun, slingshot, bow, or crossbow within
city limits.
   C.   The following people are exempt from every prohibition set forth in
section
5-1-3(B):
      1.   A peace officer who is engaged in the discharge of the official
duties of their employment;
      2.   A member of the United States Armed Forces who is engaged in the
discharge of the official duties of their employment;
      3.   An armed carrier service employee, private security guard,
government agent, government contractor, or government employee who is engaged
in the discharge of their official work duties and is required to carry the
weapon in question as a part of those duties; and
      4.   A person summoned to the aid of any person named in sections
5-1-3(C)(1) through
5-1-3(C)(3).
   D.   The following people are exempt from the prohibition set forth in
section
5-1-3(B)(1):
      1.   Persons participating in hunter or gun safety classes sanctioned by
the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks; and
      2.   Persons participating in or attending a legitimate display of
unloaded firearms at shows or other public occasions put on by collectors or
others. (amd. Ord. 3286, 1-11-2021)
5-1-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to perform the following acts: permitting a spark
or sparks from a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe to fall upon or into anything
inflammable; placing any lighted smoking material on or about or in close
proximity to any flammable article or articles; falling asleep with lighted
smoking material of any kind at hand; throwing lighted smoking material out of
a window or into an elevator pit or elsewhere other than in a proper receptacle
therefor; dropping a lighted cigarette or cigar or part thereof into a mail
chute in any building; failing to extinguish the fire of a match or any kind of
lighter device after use of the same; failure to destroy the lighted part of a
cigar or cigarette when disposing of it; failure to destroy the burning smidgen
or smidgens of tobacco from a pipe when cleaning or unloading a pipe.
   B.   Smoking may not occur within a reasonable distance of an indoor public
place such that tobacco smoke may enter through its entrances, windows,
ventilation systems or other accesses and circulate to nonsmoking areas. (Ord.
3251, 5-20-2019)
5-1-5: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire, buy, sell at
retail, fireworks of any kind or other devices for firing fireworks of any kind
within the City limits of the City; provided, however, that this chapter shall
not pertain to professional fireworks displays supervised by a pyrotechnician.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess fireworks of any kind, or
devices for firing fireworks of any kind, within the City limits unless the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The person possessing said fireworks is eighteen (18) years of age
or older.
      2.   The retail value of the fireworks in said person's possession does
not exceed the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Said fireworks are possessed by said person during the period of
time that the State allows fireworks to be sold at retail to the public.
   B.   The storage or sale of fireworks at wholesale is prohibited except by
permit from the commission issued for a period of one year. Application for a
permit must be filed with the Fire Chief of the City at least thirty (30) days
prior to issuance of the permit, and said application must give detailed
description of the proposed care and storage of said materials, and of the
structural condition and occupancy of the building to be used for storage.
Permits for the storage or sale of fireworks at wholesale may be issued only
after inspection of the premises by the Fire Chief or his authorized agent who
shall file with the commission and with the Fire Department a certificate of
approval or disapproval and the reasons therefor. (Ord. 3238, 1-8-2018)
5-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 3238, 1-8-
2018)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1:   Definitions
5-2-2:   Animals Allowed Within City Limits
5-2-3:   Animal Licenses
5-2-4:   Rabies Vaccinations
5-2-5:   Prohibited Behavior Of Animals, Owners, And Responsible Persons
5-2-6:   Bite Reporting, Rabies, And Quarantine
5-2-7:   Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs
5-2-8:   Seizure, Impoundment, And Redemption Of Animals
5-2-9:   Duty To Give Aid Upon Striking Animal With Motor Vehicle
5-2-10:   Keeping Of Apiaries
5-2-11:   Feeding Deer
5-2-12:   Trap-Neuter-Release (TNR) Programs
5-2-13:   Enforcement
5-2-14:   Application
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply unless specified
otherwise:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any duly appointed and qualified city animal control
officer, as well as any sworn city police officer.
ATTITUDE OF ATTACK: Behavior of a dog that leads a reasonable person to believe
the dog is going to inflict injury upon the person or another, which behavior
may include growling, barking, baring of teeth, tense or stiff posture, raised
hackles, lunging, or nipping.
BEE: Any stage Apis mellifera and all European subspecies.
BITE: Any abrasion, scratch, puncture, laceration, bruise, tear or piercing of
the skin caused by the teeth of an animal.
COMMUNITY CAT: An unowned, outdoor cat. A community cat is not to be classified
as a Public Nuisance Animal merely for being repeatedly found unconfined and
roaming.
COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER: A person who, in accordance with Trap-Neuter-Return,
provides care including food, shelter, or medical care to a community cat. A
community cat caregiver shall not be considered the owner, harborer,
controller, or keeper of a community cat.
CONTINUOUSLY: Any noise that is repeated with less than one (1) minute of
silence between the noises.
EARTIPPING: The removal of the half inch tip of a community cat's left-ear,
performed while the cat is under anesthesia, to identify the community cat as
being sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies at time of surgery.
ENCLOSURE: Any confined space closed on all sides to prevent escape and provide
protection from the elements, including a vehicle, pen, cage, or kennel.
FERAL CAT: A cat which is known to live in a wild or semi- wild state without
benefit of an owner or a cat which has escaped for a substantial period of time
from the care of its owner and is existing in a wild state without benefit of
domestication.
HIVE: A receptacle, container, or part of a container, natural or artificial,
used as a domicile for bees that is clearly recognized for that use.
HOBBYIST APIARY SITE: An apiary site registered by a hobbyist beekeeper.
HOBBYIST BEEKEEPER: A person who owns a total of no more than two (2) hives.
LIVESTOCK: Cattle, goats, horses, pigs, sheep, and other domesticated animals
normally used or raised on a farm.
OWNER: A person over the age of eighteen (18) who owns, keeps, or harbors an
animal. A person listed on a dog license, multiple animal license, or dangerous
dog license is presumed to be an owner.
RESCUE GROUP: A non-profit entity which is appropriately licensed and
regulated, and has at least one of its purposes of the rescue and placement of
cats which cannot be kept or placed by public animal control agencies or humane
shelters.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: A person over the age of eighteen (18) who possesses an
animal or the parent or guardian of a person under the age of eighteen (18) who
possesses an animal, irrespective of whether the person is an owner.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury consisting of a broken bone, muscle tear,
disfiguring laceration, or more than one (1) bite or deep puncture. (Ord. 3282,
7-13-2020)
TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (TNR): The effective process of humanely trapping community
cats, and sterilizing, vaccinating for rabies and Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis,
Calcivirus, and Panleukopenia, ear tipping, and returning community cats to
their original location. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020; amd. Ord. 3312, 6-12-2023)
5-2-2: ANIMALS ALLOWED WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
   A.   The following animals may be kept in city limits:
      1.   Dogs;
      2.   Cats;
      3.   Ferrets;
      4.   Chickens, turkeys, or ducks; and
      5.   Livestock, but no more than two (2) total animals above the age of
one (1) year. Pigs must weigh less than one hundred and fifty (150) pounds.
   B.   Animals other than dogs and cats shall be located or kept at least
twenty-five feet (25') away from the dwelling of another person. (Ord. 3282, 7-
13-2020)
5-2-3: ANIMAL LICENSES:
   A.   A person who keeps or harbors a dog over six (6) months of age within
the city for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days shall obtain a dog
license.
      1.   To obtain a dog license, the owner of the animal shall:
         a.   Submit a completed application provided by the city;
         b.   Provide current proof of rabies vaccination for the animal being
licensed, which rabies vaccination must remain current and unexpired or the
associated license automatically becomes void; and
         c.   Pay the associated license fee.
   B.   A person who keeps or harbors more than two (2) dogs or two (2) cats
over six (6) months of age within the city for a period longer than fourteen
(14) consecutive days shall obtain a multiple animal license.
      1.   To obtain a multiple animal license, the owner of the animals shall:
         a.   Submit a completed application provided by the city;
         b.   Provide current proof of rabies vaccination for each animal being
licensed, which rabies vaccinations must remain current and unexpired or the
associated license automatically becomes void;
         c.   Provide written confirmation from the animal control officer that
the premises at which the animals are to be kept has been inspected for
compliance with the requirements of section
5-2-3(B)(2)of this code;
         d.   Provide a written recommendation from the animal control officer
that the license should be granted; and
         e.   Pay the associated license fee.
      2.   Multiple animal license applicants and holders shall do the
following or the city will deny the license application or may revoke the
license if already issued:
         a.   Maintain an enclosure or enclosures that are adequate to house
the animals;
         b.   Regularly dispose of animal excreta so it does not become a
nuisance or a health hazard;
         c.   Provide proper food, water, shelter, and general care for all
animals;
         d.   Comply with all zoning and business license requirements if
operating a commercial kennel as defined in Title 11 of this code; and
         e.   Commit no violations of the provisions of this chapter, provided,
however, that a person's eligibility for a multiple animal license will be
restored once the person has gone two (2) years without such a violation.
   C.   A person who keeps or harbors a dog that has been designated as
dangerous pursuant to section
5-2-7 of this code shall obtain a dangerous dog license.
      1.   To obtain a dangerous dog license, the owner of the animal shall:
         a.   Submit a completed application provided by the city;
         b.   Provide current proof of rabies vaccination for the animal being
licensed, which rabies vaccination must remain current and unexpired or the
associated license automatically becomes void;
         c.   Provide written confirmation from the animal control officer that
the premises at which the dog is to be kept has been inspected for compliance
with the requirements of section
5-2-3(C)(2) of this code; and
         d.   Pay the associated license fee.
      2.   Dangerous dog license applicants and holders shall do the following
or the city will deny the license application or automatically revoke the
license if already    issued:
         a.   Maintain an enclosure on the premises where the dog is kept that
prevents entry by children, is shut-in on all sides, including the top, to
prevent the dog from escaping the premises, and provides the dog with
protection from the elements;
         b.   Post the premises where the dog is kept with clearly visible and
readable warning signs that a dangerous dog is on the premises;
         c.   Obtain from an insurer qualified under the laws of the state
either a surety bond in an amount no less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) that is payable to any person injured by the dangerous dog, or a
policy of liability insurance, such as homeowner's insurance, issued by an
insurer qualified under the laws of the state in the amount of no less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) that insures the owner for any personal
injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog; and
         d.   Present the animal control officer with proof that the dog has
been microchipped.
   D.   Regardless of issuance date, a license granted pursuant to this chapter
automatically expires at 11:59 p.m. on December 31 of the calendar year for
which the license was issued. A new license shall be obtained for each calendar
year.
   E.   A license issued pursuant to this chapter is non-transferable. If
ownership of an animal changes during the license year, the new owner shall
obtain all required licenses within fourteen (14) days of acquiring the animal.
   F.   Every licensed dog must bear either its license tag or another tag
engraved with its license number on a collar or harness when not located on the
owner's property. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-4: RABIES VACCINATIONS:
   A.   A dog, cat, or ferret located within the city must have a valid rabies
vaccination if the animal is over three (3) months of age. Vaccination must be
administered by a veterinarian licensed pursuant to 37-18-305, MCA, or under
the direct supervision of such a veterinarian.
   B.   All rabies vaccinations must remain current and unexpired. Failure to
maintain a current, unexpired rabies vaccination automatically voids any
license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Proof of valid rabies vaccination is required upon demand by the animal
control officer or a police officer of the city. Proof can be in the form of
vaccination records from a licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-5: PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR OF ANIMALS, OWNERS, AND RESPONSIBLE PERSONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and an owner or responsible person may be cited if a
dog:
      1.   That is off the owner's or responsible person's property charges or
approaches a human with an attitude of attack.
      2.   Bites or causes injury to a human or domesticated animal.
      3.   Makes noise continuously, on three separate occasions, over a seven-
day period:
         a.   For longer than thirty (30) minutes; or
         b.   At separate and distinct time periods that, when considered
together, amount to a time greater than sixty (60) minutes out of any twelve
(12) hour period.
   B.   It is unlawful and an owner or responsible person may be cited if the
owner or responsible person:
      1.   Allows an animal to run at large or leaves an animal unattended or
picketed upon the right-of-way, city park, open space, or other public
facility;
      2.   Fails to remove and properly dispose of any excreta deposited by
their animal on public property or private property not belonging to the owner
or responsible person;
      3.   Fails to remove and properly dispose of excreta deposited on the
owner's or responsible person's property on a weekly basis;
      4.   Abandons an animal in city limits;
      5.   Fails to surrender an animal when the animal control officer is
either required or permitted to seize the animal by city ordinance;
      6.   Fails to keep a dog on a leash of ten feet (10') or less that is
held by a person physically able to control the dog when the dog is not
confined within an enclosure or on the owner's property, unless:
         a.   The dog is within a designated open space or any natural park as
defined in section
7-12-1 of this code and is more than one hundred (100) yards from a trailhead,
is within the owner's or responsible person's sight, and is under the person's
voice control; or
         b.   The dog is within a fenced area of a dog park designated by the
city commission and is within the owner's or responsible person's sight and
under the person's voice control.
   C.   A person cited under section
5-2-5(A) of this code may assert as an affirmative defense that the dog was
responding to a provocation, an offense upon a person, or an unreasonable
trespass upon the property of a person. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-6: BITE REPORTING, RABIES, AND QUARANTINE:
   A.   Any person with knowledge that an animal has bitten a human shall
promptly make a report of the bite to the animal control officer.
   B.   Every physician or other medical practitioner shall report to the
animal control officer the name and address of any person treated for an animal
bite.
   C.   Upon suspicion that a person has sustained a bite that may have exposed
the person to rabies, the animal control officer shall order that the biting
animal be quarantined for no less than ten (10) days. If the animal control
officer does not believe the biting animal has been exposed to rabies, the
animal control officer may, at his or her sole and absolute discretion, allow
the animal to be quarantined on the premises of the owner. If the biting animal
is not quarantined on the premises of the owner, quarantine shall occur at a
veterinary hospital, veterinarian's office of the owner's choice, or at any
other place approved by the animal control officer, all at the owner's expense.
The biting animal shall not be released from quarantine except by permission of
the animal control officer.
   D.   If the animal control officer suspects an animal has been exposed to
rabies, the animal control officer may immediately seize the animal for
placement in quarantine at a veterinary hospital or veterinarian's office, all
at the owner's expense. The owner can only reclaim the animal upon compliance
with the licensing provisions of this chapter, payment of any accrued
quarantine fees, and confirmation that the animal is free of rabies.   
   E.   If a quarantined animal dies while under observation and a veterinarian
has diagnosed a quarantined animal as rabid or suspects the animal is rabid,
the veterinarian or the animal control officer shall promptly send the animal's
head to a competent laboratory for pathological examination. The animal control
officer shall notify the proper public health office of the examination results
as well as any reports of the animal's contact with humans. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-
2020)
5-2-7: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   The animal control officer may designate a dog as potentially dangerous
if:
      1.   The dog, unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a human or domesticated
animal; or
      2.   The dog, unprovoked, charges or approaches a person with an attitude
of attack.
   B.   The animal control officer may designate a dog as dangerous if:
      1.   The dog, unprovoked, inflicts severe injury on a human or
domesticated animal;
      2.   The dog, unprovoked, kills a domesticated animal; or
      3.   The dog has been previously designated as potentially dangerous and,
unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a human or domesticated animal, charges or
approaches a person with an attitude of attack.
   C.   A dog is not potentially dangerous or dangerous if the threat, injury,
or damage was sustained by a human who at the time of the animal's act or acts:
      1.   Was committing an unreasonable trespass upon premises occupied by
the dog's owner, the owner's immediate family, a responsible person, or a
responsible person's immediate family;
      2.   Was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog;
      3.   Has in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
      4.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   D.   The animal control officer shall seize any dog the animal control
officer has designated as dangerous within a reasonable time after the
designation. The animal shall be impounded at a licensed veterinary hospital or
licensed animal shelter and may only be released if the owner pays all
impoundment fees and:
      1.   The municipal court judge has determined the dog is not dangerous;
or
      2.   The animal control officer has determined the owner meets the
requirements for keeping a dangerous dog as required by this chapter.
   E.   If the animal control officer designates a dog as dangerous or
potentially dangerous, the officer shall provide the owner with notice of the
designation. Notification may be accomplished orally by phone, electronic mail,
or in-person communication, or by written notice via standard mail, personal
delivery, or posting the notice in a conspicuous place at the owner's
residence.
   F.   An owner may appeal a potentially dangerous or dangerous designation by
filing a written notice of appeal and request for hearing with the clerk of the
municipal court. The filing shall occur within ten (10) business days after
notification of the designation, with a copy provided to the city attorney.
      1.   The municipal court shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty
(30) business days after filing, but not earlier than fourteen (14) business
days after filing. The parties can agree to a continuance of the hearing.
      2.   Both sides shall give notice of the witnesses they intend to call at
least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
      3.   At the hearing, the owner has the burden to show the designation was
improper by the preponderance of the evidence.
      4.   The Montana Rules of Evidence shall be enforced at the hearing.
   G.   A dangerous dog shall be kept in the enclosure required by the
dangerous dog licensing provisions when on the owner's premises. At all times
when the dog is outside the enclosure, it shall be muzzled and on a leash of
ten feet (10') or less that is held by a person physically able to control the
dog. The muzzle must prevent the dog from biting any human or animal but must
not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration.
   H.   If an owner fails to comply with any condition of keeping a dangerous
dog, the animal control officer shall seize the dangerous dog and may also
pursue court-ordered relinquishment under
5-2-7(J).
   I.   Within twenty-four (24) hours after a change in ownership, change in
address, or death of a dangerous dog, the owner shall notify the animal control
officer of such event.
   J.   The city may petition the municipal court for an order requiring the
owner to relinquish ownership of a dangerous dog when the owner has failed to
comply with any condition of keeping a dangerous dog or has not retrieved the
dog from impoundment within five (5) business days after the date on which the
animal control officer designates the dog as dangerous or the date on which the
municipal court judge issues a decision on any appeal of the designation,
whichever is later.
      1.   The city shall make a reasonable effort to provide the owner a copy
of the petition within a reasonable time after filing.
      2.   The municipal court shall hold a hearing within twenty (20) business
days after the date on which the petition was filed and shall issue a decision
within ten (10) business days after the hearing date.
   K.   The owner of a potentially dangerous dog may petition the municipal
court to remove the designation if the owner and the dog have not committed any
violations of this chapter for a period of at least two (2) years following the
designation. The owner shall provide the city attorney with a copy of the
petition.
   L.   The owner of a dangerous dog may petition the Municipal Court to remove
the designation if the owner and the dog have not committed any violations of
this chapter for a period of at least five (5) years following the designation.
The owner shall provide the city attorney with a copy of the petition.
   M.   When an owner has filed a petition for removal of a potentially
dangerous or dangerous designation, the municipal court shall hold a hearing to
determine if the designation should be removed. If the court finds the
designation should be removed, the court may impose continuing conditions on
the owner to assure continuing compliance with this chapter, as the court deems
proper.
   N.   If the municipal court denies a petition to remove a potentially
dangerous or dangerous designation, the owner may not file another such
petition for at least one (1) year from the date of the order denying the
petition. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-8: SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   If an owner fails to surrender an animal when the animal control
officer is either required or permitted to seize the animal by city ordinance,
the city or the animal control officer may file with the municipal court a
written petition seeking an immediate seizure order. The municipal court may
issue such an order without a hearing if the petition, made under oath or
affirmation, includes:
      1.   Facts to support probable cause to believe the animal must be
seized; and
      2.   An adequate description of the animal to be seized.
   B.   Any animal found running at large or left unattended or picketed upon
any city right-of-way, city park, open space, or other public facility; or
picketed on private property in such a way that the animal can enter the city
right-of-way, city park, open space, or other public facility may be taken by
the animal control officer and impounded in the animal shelter or a
veterinarian's office and there confined in a humane manner. Upon impounding
any animal, the animal control officer must make a reasonable effort to notify
the owner of the impounded animal and inform the owner of the conditions
whereby they may regain possession of the animal.
   C.   If the city impounds, boards, or has an animal sheltered for any reason
not specifically discussed elsewhere in this code, or does so because the
animal was either abandoned or found pursuant to section
5-2-8(B):
      1.   The owner shall be entitled to regain possession of the animal upon
compliance with all animal licensing provisions and payment of all fees and
charges provided for in this chapter, including but not limited to impoundment
fees; and
      2.   The animal shall become the property of the Lewis and Clark Humane
Society and the owner is deemed to have relinquished ownership of the animal if
the owner has not reclaimed it within seventy-two (72) hours of impoundment if
the animal was impounded pursuant to section
5-2-8(B), or within ten (10) business days if it came into the city's
possession for any other reason.
   D.   If an animal that is impounded or housed for any reason under this
chapter requires veterinary care or treatment, representatives of the facility
housing or caring for the animal are permitted to obtain the required
veterinary care or treatment for the animal. To reclaim the animal, the owner
shall reimburse the facility for the veterinary care or treatment.
   E.   The animal control officer, a licensed veterinarian, or the humane
society may destroy any sick or injured animal without holding it for ten (10)
business days if its condition is such that destruction is necessary. (Ord.
3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-9: DUTY TO GIVE AID UPON STRIKING ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE:
The operator of a motor vehicle that strikes, injures, maims, or runs down any
domesticated animal shall immediately notify law enforcement or give aid to
such animal. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-10: KEEPING OF APIARIES:
   A.   An apiary is permitted within city limits in the following
circumstances only:
      1.   For exhibition in one (1) observation hive of no more than three (3)
frames, each no larger than ten inches by twenty inches (10" x 20") in size,
and with no more than two (2) pounds of bees in the hive; and
      2.   When owned by a hobbyist beekeeper who is licensed and regulated by
this chapter.
   B.   A hobbyist beekeeper may own, use, or maintain a hobbyist apiary site
within city limits if the hobbyist beekeeper first obtains an annual apiary
license from the city. To obtain an apiary license, a hobbyist beekeeper shall:
      1.   Have no more than two (2) hives at a hobbyist apiary site that is
registered with the Montana Department of Agriculture, pursuant to section 80-
6-114, MCA;
      2.   Certify that the hobbyist beekeeper is the owner of the bees and
that the hobbyist beekeeper will personally manage, maintain and operate the
apiary site;
      3.   Notify the city of the species of bees the hobbyist beekeeper will
tend at the hobbyist apiary site;
      4.   Provide proof that the hobbyist apiary site will utilize hives that
are movable and framed with adequate space in the hive to prevent overcrowding
and swarming;
      5.   Agree that the hobbyist apiary site must be re-queened or united
with another hive following any swarming or aggressive behavior by the bees of
that site or any hive therein;
      6.   Agree that the hobbyist apiary site may not be manipulated between
the hours of sunset and sunrise unless the hives are being moved to or from
another location or for public safety; and
      7.   Present a site plan of the hobbyist apiary site showing:
         a.   That the hobbyist apiary site is located on property owned or
leased by the hobbyist beekeeper;
         b.   Availability of a water source that is within twenty feet (20')
of the hobbyist apiary site for the active duration of the site; and
         c.   That the hobbyist apiary site will either be kept at least
fifteen feet (15') from the boundary lines of adjacent property owned by
another person or that there is a barrier no less than six feet (6') high that
prohibits the direct flight of bees that is erected between the site and
adjoining property. (Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-11: FEEDING DEER:
A person may not purposely or knowingly provide supplemental feed to deer.
(Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020)
5-2-12: TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (TNR) PROGRAMS:
Trap-Neuter-Return (TNR) is permitted by the city as follows:
   A.   City of Helena Animal Control Officers or Rescue groups under the
direction and partnership with the City of Helena Animal Control Officers,
conducting a TNR program within the city must:
      1.   Trap cats using humane trapping techniques;
      2.   Have cats assessed visually by a veterinarian prior to being spayed
or neutered. If a cat is deemed to be sick or injured based on the examination,
or there is concern about potential illness or injury, the veterinarian will
make further decisions regarding the cat's quality of life, including
euthanasia decisions if necessary;
      3.   Have cats spayed or neutered if they are deemed healthy by a
veterinarian at the time of surgery;
      4.   Have cats vaccinated for rabies if over three months old, and Feline
Viral Rhinotrachetis, Calcivirus, and Panleukopenia;
      5.   Have cats that are spayed or neutered eartipped.
      6.   Cats must be returned to their original location unless the original
location is deemed unsafe or uninhabitable by the Rescue Group conducting the
TNR program.
      7.   Cat bites must be reported to Animal Control.
   B.   City of Helena Animal Control Officers and Rescue groups conducting a
TNR program within the City shall make available to the public information
about TNR and feral cats, shall attempt to notify the appropriate Community Cat
Caregiver when conducting a TNR program, shall provide a single point of
contact to Animal Control for the coordination of TNR.
   C.   Persons who contact Animal Control regarding stray or community cats
shall be provided information about TNR.
   D.   The licensing regulations in this Chapter are not applicable to any
person or Rescue Group that is providing care for feral or community cats and
is making a reasonable effort to trap and sterilize the animals. (Ord. 3312, 6-
12-2023)
5-2-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A person found to be in violation of any section of this chapter not
relating to dangerous dogs shall be subject to a fine of no more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day of operation in
violation of this chapter constitutes a separate violation. In addition, the
person may be required to pay restitution.
   B.   A person found to be in violation of any section of this chapter
relating to dangerous dogs shall be subject to a fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. In addition, the person may be required to pay
restitution. Each day of operation in violation of this chapter constitutes a
separate violation.
   C.   Governmental agencies, humane societies, animal shelters, and
veterinary clinics shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020; amd. Ord. 3312, 6-12-2023)
5-2-14: APPLICATION:
If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter is not affected.
(Ord. 3282, 7-13-2020; amd. Ord. 3312, 6-12-2023)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
(Rep. by Ord. 3284, 10-26-2020)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 3235, 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 6
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-6-1:   Operational Conditions
5-6-2:   Equipment
5-6-3:   License Required
5-6-4:   Operation Generally
5-6-5:   Definition
5-6-1: OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
No person shall operate a snowmobile on any public street or alley unless such
street is drifted or covered by snow to such an extent that travel thereon by
other motor vehicles is impossible. (1979 Code)
5-6-2: EQUIPMENT:
No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street or alley when permitted by
section
5-6-1 of this chapter unless it is equipped with at least one headlamp and one
tail lamp, which shall be lighted at all times during such operation, and
unless equipped with a suitable braking device which may be operated by either
hand or foot. (1979 Code)
5-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a snowmobile on a public street or alley when permitted
to do so by section
5-6-1 of this chapter unless he shall have in his possession a license to drive
a motor vehicle as required by the laws of the state of Montana. (1979 Code)
5-6-4: OPERATION GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or operate any snowmobile upon a
public street or highway in any one or more of the following manners:
   A.   At a rate of speed greater than provided by law for motor vehicles;
   B.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit
forming drugs;
   C.   In a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the person or
property of another or to cause injury or damage to either;
   D.   Without a lighted head and tail light;
   E.   Operating a snowmobile or permitting such operation by any person who
by reason of age or physical of mental disability is incapable of operating the
snowmobile as required for safety under the prevailing circumstances. (1979
Code)
5-6-5: DEFINITION:
"Snowmobile" when used in this chapter includes any self- propelled vehicle
designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or natural terrain, which may be
steered by wheels, skis, or runners or which is registered as such under the
laws of the state of Montana. (1979 Code)
CHAPTER 7
LOUD, EXCESSIVE NOISES
SECTION:
5-7-1:   Unlawful To Create Noises
5-7-2:   Unlawful Noises Described
5-7-3:   Limiting Noise Levels By dB(A) Criteria
5-7-4:   Penalties
5-7-5:   Additional Remedy; Injunction
5-7-6:   Undue Hardship
5-7-7:   Severability Of Parts Of Ordinance
5-7-8:   Violations From Moving Noise Source Or Sources
5-7-9:   Violations From Noise Source Or Sources Not In Public Right-Of-Way
5-7-10:   Enforcement Personnel
5-7-11:   Definitions
5-7-12:   Earth Transmitted Vibration
5-7-13:   Permits
5-7-1: UNLAWFUL TO CREATE NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any excessive
or unusually loud noise or any noise measured or unmeasured which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of any person within the limits of the City. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-2: UNLAWFUL NOISES DESCRIBED:
It shall be unlawful to perform any of the following acts within the City:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: Sounding any horn or signaling device on any
truck, automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of
the City except as a warning signal.
   B.   Sound Amplifying Equipment: Using, operating or permitting the use of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, TV, phonograph or other machine or
device for the production or reproduction of sound in such a manner as to
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person. The operation of any such
set, instrument, television, phonograph machine or device in such a manner as
to be in violation of section
5-7-3 of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
   C.   Loud Speakers, Amplifiers For Commercial Purposes: Installing, using or
operating within the City a loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment at levels
in excess of those specified in section
5-7-3 of this chapter in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound
truck for the purpose of giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses,
lectures or transmitting music to any persons or assemblages of persons in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place or public property without first
obtaining a permit. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972; amd. Ord. 3253, 5-20-2019)
   D.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on
the public streets, alleys or parks at any time so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   E.   Animals: Owning, keeping, having in possession or harboring any animals
which, by frequent or habitual howling, barking, meowing, squawking or other
noise to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   F.   Exhausts: Discharging into the open air the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom. Modifying any noise abatement device on any motor
vehicle or engine in a manner so that the noise emitted by such vehicle or
engine as originally manufactured shall be a violation of this section.
   G.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: Operating any truck, trailer, automobile,
motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such a manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   H.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Containers: Loading, unloading, opening or
otherwise handling boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers or other
objects in such a manner as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person.
   I.   Construction Projects Or Repair Of Buildings: Operating equipment or
performing any construction or repair work on buildings, structures or projects
or operating any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or
electric hoist, or other construction type device in such a manner as to
unnecessarily disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   J.   Fireworks And Explosives: The use of fireworks and/or other explosives
so as to disturb the quiet, comfort and repose of any person.
   K.   Exception Clause: Any of the above acts performed for emergency work
for the safety, welfare and public health of the citizens of Helena will not be
construed to be in violation of this chapter. "Emergency work" is work made
necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity
or work required to protect persons or property from exposure to danger or
potential danger. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-3: LIMITING NOISE LEVELS BY dB(A) CRITERIA:
   A.   Maximum permissible decibel limits on noise emitting from source or
sources not on public right of way in residential, commercial and industrial
districts.
Noise will be measured at the boundaries of the lot. Noise radiating from
properties or buildings in excess of the dB(A) established for the districts
and times herewith listed shall constitute prima facie evidence that such noise
is a public nuisance. This includes noise from such activities as production,
processing, cleaning, servicing, testing and repair of vehicles, materials,
goods or products. Noises caused by home or building repair or grounds
maintenance are excluded, provided such noises do not exceed limitations
specified in this section, by more than 20 dB(A) and do not exceed a total of
eight (8) hours over a period of two (2) days. If such noise is to continue, a
permit shall be obtained from the city manager or his authorized
representative.
 
Districts   Limitations 6:00 A.M. To Next 11: Limitations 11:00 P.M. To Next 6:
            00 P.M.                           00 A.M.
Residential 55 dB(A)                          50 dB(A)
Commercial  60 dB(A)                          55 dB(A)
Industrial  80 dB(A)                          75 dB(A)
 
      1.   At boundaries between zones, the lower of the dB(A) levels shall be
applicable.
      2.   To be in violation, the source or sources of noise must be
identifiable and the levels without regard to the ambient must exceed the above
limitations.
      3.   Periodic or impulsive noises shall be in violation when such noises
are at a noise level of five (5) dB(A) less than those listed herein.
      4.   The limit on pure tones shall be five (5) dB(A) less than those
listed herein.
      5.   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial districts for the period within which
construction is to be completed pursuant to any applicable construction permit
issued by proper authority, or if no time limitation is imposed, then for a
reasonable period of time for completion of project.
      6.   All railroad rights of way shall be considered as industrial
districts for the purpose of this chapter, and the operation of trains shall be
subject to the maximum permissible noise levels specified for such districts.
   B.   Maximum permissible decibel limits for motor driven vehicles. Noise
from a noise source within a public right of way shall be measured at a
distance of at least twenty five feet (25') from the center of the nearest
traffic lane on a sound level meter of standard design and operated on the "A"
weight scale. The following dB(A) limitations are with reference to a distance
of twenty five feet (25') from the sound source.
 
Trucks and buses, over 10,000 gross weight                       88 dB(A)
Trucks and buses, under 10,000 gross weight                      80 dB(A)
Motorcycles, snowmobiles, minibikes, automobiles and other self- 80 dB(A)
propelled vehicles
 
(Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-4: PENALTIES:
Whenever in any section herein or rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, the
doing of any act is required, prohibited or declared to be unlawful and no
definite fine or penalty is provided for a violation thereof, any person who
shall be convicted of a violation of any such section shall, for each offense,
be fined in a sum of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisoned not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both so fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-5: ADDITIONAL REMEDY; INJUNCTION:
As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any noise source in
violation of any provision hereof and which causes discomfort or annoyance to
reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort,
repose, health or peace of residents in the area shall be deemed and is
declared to be a public nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a
restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-6: UNDUE HARDSHIP:
Applications for a permit for relief from the noise levels designated in this
chapter on the basis of undue hardship may be made to the city manager or his
duly authorized representative. Relief may be granted if additional time up to
sixty (60) days is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify his activity
or operation or if no other reasonable alternative is available to the
applicant for immediate compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-7: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF ORDINANCE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city commission that the
articles, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this chapter
are severable, and if any article, section, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the
valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
articles, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this chapter,
since the same would have been enacted by the city commission without the
incorporation in this chapter of any such unconstitutional or invalid articles,
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-8: VIOLATIONS FROM MOVING NOISE SOURCE OR SOURCES:
Violations of this chapter in which the noise source is a truck, bus, passenger
car, motorcycle, snowmobile, minibike, or other self propelled vehicle shall be
cause for summons and warrant to issue forthwith. Machines or devices not
customarily used or designed for transportation are excluded herein. (Ord.
1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-9: VIOLATIONS FROM NOISE SOURCE OR SOURCES NOT IN PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
Violation of this chapter in which the noise source is not self- propelled, or
is self-propelled not customarily used or designed for transportation upon a
public right of way, shall be cause for issuance of a twenty four (24) hour
notice in writing or other reasonable amounts of time not to exceed five (5)
days signed by the city manager, or his authorized representatives, directed to
the owner, occupant, person or persons in charge of or in control of the
machine, device, building or other premises to abate said violation of this
chapter. Failure to comply with the order so issued shall constitute a
violation and summons and warrant shall be issued forthwith. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-
1972)
5-7-10: ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL:
In addition to the employees and officers regularly required to enforce city
ordinances generally, the city manager shall assign duties of enforcement to
personnel trained in noise control techniques and procedures and equipped with
calibrated sound level meters of a standard design. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-11: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   dB(A): Sound levels in decibels measured on the "A" scale of a standard
sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American Standards
Institute, Publication S.4-1970. (All measurements and equipment should meet
ANSI proposed standard S.4-1970.)
   DECIBEL: Sound pressure level in decibels is a logarithmic unit used to
express the magnitude of sound pressure with respect to a reference sound
pressure. It is defined as twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base ten (10)
of the ratio of the sound pressure to the reference sound pressure. By
international standards, the reference and sound pressure is 2 x 10-5 newtons/
meter squared. By example, a doubling of sound pressure, at any magnitude, will
result in a three (3) decibel increase in sound pressure level, a ten (10) fold
increase will result in a ten (10) decibel increase in sound pressure level.
For the purposes of this chapter only, residential districts are R-1, R-2, R-3,
R-4, R-O, R-U, and OSR districts as defined by title 11 of this code;
commercial districts are B-1, B-2, B-3, DT, TR, and PLI districts in accordance
with said title; and other districts shall be considered industrial. (Ord.
1959, 9-5-1972; amd. Ord. 3291, 9-20-2021)
5-7-12: EARTH TRANSMITTED VIBRATION:
Every stationary machine or device operated within the city shall be so
operated that the ground vibration inherently and recurrently generated is not
perceptible without instruments at any point of any boundary line of the zone
in which the use is located. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
5-7-13: PERMITS:
Permits to gain temporary relief from the provisions of this chapter may be
obtained for good cause from the city manager or his duly authorized
representative. (Ord. 1959, 9-5-1972)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
CHAPTER 9
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-9-1:   Reserved
5-9-2:   Lawn Sprinklers
5-9-3:   Privies And Drains
5-9-4:   Polluted Waters
5-9-5:   Trees, Bushes
5-9-6:   Obstructing Railroad Tracks
5-9-7:   Abatement Of Nuisances
5-9-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 3108, 3-9-2009)
5-9-2: LAWN SPRINKLERS:
No person shall place any revolving fountain, hose or lawn sprinkler so that
the water from the same shall be thrown upon any street or sidewalk to the
annoyance of passersby, and no person shall cause water to flow over or upon
any street or sidewalk. (1979 Code)
5-9-3: PRIVIES AND DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any cellar, vault, private
drain, pool, privy, sewer or grounds upon any premises belonging to him, or to
allow such to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to public health,
or offensive or injurious to any person. (1979 Code)
5-9-4: POLLUTED WATERS:
No person shall dump, empty or throw manure, tin cans or other coarse rubbish,
or any dead animals into any covered or open water ditch, flume or natural
watercourse within the limits of the city. (1979 Code)
5-9-5: TREES, BUSHES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any premises to suffer or permit any
branches or boughs of trees, bushes, shrubs or shrubbery to extend or project
over the "street" as defined in section
7-10-2 of this code, at a height contrary to the provisions of section 7-10-16
of this code, or to suffer or permit any weeds to grow on or adjoining the
premises, contrary to the provisions of title 7, chapter 7 of this code. (Ord.
2706, 5-23-1994)
5-9-6: OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD TRACKS:
No person shall place or cause to be placed any obstruction upon the track of
any railway company within the limits of this city. (1979 Code)
5-9-7: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
Whenever any person is convicted of committing or maintaining a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter, the court may order the city to abate the same and to
certify the cost thereof to the court; and the court shall thereupon add the
amount so certified to the fine imposed upon such person, and enforce the
payment of the same in the manner provided for the collection of fines. (Ord.
3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
CHAPTER 10
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-10-1:   Purpose
5-10-2:   Scope
5-10-3:   Definitions
5-10-4:   Short Title
5-10-5:   Curfew For Minors
5-10-6:   Exceptions
5-10-7:   Minors Under Fifteen Years Of Age
5-10-8:   Duty Of Parent
5-10-9:   Duty Of Law Enforcement Officers
5-10-10:   Penalty For Violation
5-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable restrictions upon the
time of day during which minors shall be allowed on any of the streets or other
public places of the city. Such restrictions are enacted to further the general
welfare of the community and specifically to further the following community
interests: a) the protection of the younger children in the city from each
other and from other persons on the street during the nighttime hours; b) the
enforcement of parental control of, and responsibility for, their children; c)
the protection of the public from nocturnal mischief by minors; d) the
reduction in the incidence of juvenile criminal activity; and e) prevent
exposure to, and the possibility of being led into involvement with, crimes of
violence, destruction and/or self-destruction. These restrictions are enacted
pursuant to the general police and other powers granted to self-power local
governments. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to apply to all minors under the
age of fifteen (15) years and to any parent of any minor person under the age
of fifteen (15) years. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CITY: The local government of the city of Helena, Montana, and all of the
area located within its geographical boundaries.
   CURFEW: A regulation establishing restrictions upon the time of day during
which minor persons may appear on any of the streets or public places of the
city of Helena, Montana.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT FACILITY: The offices of the city of Helena police
department located in the civic center, or the Lewis and Clark County sheriff's
office, both located in the city of Helena.
   MASCULINE GENDER: Shall include the feminine gender.
   MINOR: Any person who has not attained the age of fifteen (15) years.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or d) is a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
   PERSON: Any human being, male or female.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any park, playground, school yard or other publicly owned
property.
   SINGULAR NUMBER: Shall include the plural number.
   STREET: Any public street, highway, alley or other public way within the
city of Helena, Montana. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-4: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CURFEW CHAPTER. (Ord. 2252,
6-28-1982)
5-10-5: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
A curfew restricting the time of day during which minor persons may appear on
any of the streets or in any of the public places of the city, is hereby
established. No minor, as specified in section
5-10-7 of this chapter, shall be in or upon any street or public place within
the city during the hours provided in section
5-10-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-6: EXCEPTIONS:
In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any street or public
place within the city, during the hours provided in section
5-10-7 of this chapter, shall not be considered in violation of the curfew
chapter when:
   A.   Accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   B.   Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to take
said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of time
and purpose within a specified area.
   C.   In the performance of an errand or duty directed by a parent of such
minor.
   D.   Attending an authorized school, recreational or religious activity.
This exception will apply for one-half (1/2) hour after the completion of such
activity.
   E.   Engaged in legally recognized employment. This exception will apply for
the period from one-half (1/2) hour before to one-half (1/2) hour after work.
   F.   The minor is, with parental consent, engaged in interstate travel
through the city. This also exempts interstate travel beginning or ending
within the city. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-7: MINORS UNDER FIFTEEN YEARS OF AGE:
Minors who have not reached their fifteenth birthday shall not be in or upon
any street or public place between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. except on Friday or Saturday nights when such hours
shall be between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
Provided, however, that on any weekday night preceding a holiday recognized by
the United States of America, state of Montana, or the city of Helena, the
hours shall be between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. In addition, during the period of time that the state of Montana is
operating under daylight saving time, the aforementioned hours shall be
extended by one-half (1/2) hour. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-8: DUTY OF PARENT:
No parent of any minor under the age of fifteen (15) shall allow or permit any
such minor to go or be in or upon any street or public place within the city
after the hours prescribed in section
5-10-7 of this chapter, unless reasonable necessity can be shown therefor. The
words "allow" or "permit" as used in this section require actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of a parent. A parent must actually know
about a minor's violation or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable,
responsible parent should have known of the minor's violation. (Ord. 2252, 6-
28-1982)
5-10-9: DUTY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
   A.   Upon finding a minor in or upon any street or public place within the
city, in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the
duty of the attending law enforcement officer of the city to take the name of
such minor and the name and address of the minor's parent.
   B.   The law enforcement officer shall take the minor to the law enforcement
facility where the parent shall immediately be notified to come for such minor.
If the minor requires medical treatment, the law enforcement officer shall take
the minor to a medical facility instead of the law enforcement facility.
   C.   Minors apprehended for violation of the provisions of this chapter will
be taken to a law enforcement facility and held until a parent or legal
guardian appears to accept legal custody of said minor. If the parent cannot be
located, or fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released
to the juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with the
law enforcement regulations approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the
minor may be temporarily entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who
will, on behalf of the parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the
minor pending the availability or arrival of the parent.
   D.   The law enforcement officer shall file a written report to the chief of
police or his designee within twenty four (24) hours of the violation. (Ord.
2252, 6-28-1982)
5-10-10: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any parent shall, upon conviction of a violation of this chapter, be guilty of
a misdemeanor and be fined a minimum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the
first offense, fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second offense, one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the third offense, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
fourth offense, four hundred dollars ($400.00) for the fifth offense, and five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for all subsequent offenses. (Ord. 2252, 6-28-1982)
CHAPTER 11
ALARM MONITORING SERVICES
SECTION:
5-11-1:   Definitions
5-11-2:   Alarm Monitoring Services
5-11-3:   Alarm Systems Monitored By Police Department
5-11-4:   Alarm Systems, Maintenance And Repair
5-11-5:   Alarm Systems, Training
5-11-6:   Approving And Issuing Authority
5-11-7:   Application For Monitoring Services Permit
5-11-8:   Notice Of Change
5-11-9:   Liability
5-11-10:   Installation
5-11-11:   Audible Alarm Standards For Cessation Of Audible Signal
5-11-12:   Repair
5-11-13:   Alarm Telephone Devices
5-11-14:   Audible Alarms Similar To Sirens Prohibited
5-11-15:   Alarm Systems Which Constitute A Hazard To Responding Public Safety
Officers
5-11-16:   Permit
5-11-17:   Application/Investigation And Denial
5-11-18:   Private Alarm Monitoring Agency Requirements
5-11-19:   Posting Of Permits
5-11-20:   False Alarm/Service
5-11-21:   Notice Of Change, Hearing
5-11-22:   Public Nuisance
5-11-23:   Due Date Of Fees
5-11-24:   Grounds For Revocation
5-11-25:   Procedures For Revocation
5-11-26:   Appeal
5-11-27:   Severability Clause
5-11-28:   Dedicated Phone Line Approval; Compliance Required
5-11-29:   Penalty
5-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
   ALARM AGENT: Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include any of the following: selling,
maintaining, leasing, servicing, monitoring, repairing, altering, replacing,
moving or installing any alarm system over, under or in any building or
structure or facility.
   ALARM BUSINESS: The business of any person of leasing, maintaining,
servicing, monitoring, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing any
alarm system or causing it to be leased, maintained, serviced, monitored,
repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed in, over, under or on any
building, structure or facility. Alarm business does not include a business
which engages in the manufacture or sale of an alarm system unless such
business services, installs, monitors, or responds to alarm systems at the
protected premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical or electrical device which is designed or used
for the detection of criminal activity, fire, or related conditions potentially
hazardous to the public safety and welfare which is located in the city of
Helena or which terminates in the center or in a private alarm monitoring
agency. However, nothing in this definition or in this chapter shall be deemed
to include within the coverage of this chapter any alarm or alarm system,
located inside a building or structure, which is exclusively designed for the
purpose of notifying occupants or residents of said structure of any possible
criminal activity, fire or related conditions.
   ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation in
control of any building, structure or facility, or portion thereof, wherein an
alarm system is operated and maintained.
   APPLICANT: Any person, persons, or corporate entity who owns, leases or
otherwise obtains, or uses an alarm system and who files an application for a
new or renewal permit for alarm monitoring services by the center or by a
private alarm monitoring agency as set forth in this chapter.
   CENTER: The Lewis and Clark County - city of Helena joint communication
center located in the law enforcement center located in the city of Helena,
Montana.
   FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, or through negligence of the user, owner or
lessee of an alarm system, or his or her employees or agents. Such terminology
does not include alarms caused by acts of God, flooding or other violent
natural conditions.
   FAULTY SYSTEM: An alarm system which results in false alarms as the result
of mechanical failure, malfunctioning equipment or improper installation.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR: The finance director of the city of Helena or his or her
authorized representative.
   FIRE CHIEF: The fire chief of the city of Helena or his or her authorized
representative.
   MANAGING AUTHORITY: Refers to that individual, group, agency, board or
committee that is given authority by the city of Helena and Lewis and Clark
County to oversee the operation of the law enforcement center located in the
city of Helena. In addition, this term refers to the authorized agents of said
managing authority.
   NOTICE: Written notice, given by personal service upon the addressee, or
deposited with the United States postal service, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the person to be notified at his last known address. Service of
such notice shall be effective upon the completion of personal service or upon
the placing of the same in the custody of the United States postal service.
   PERMITTEE: Any person granted a permit as provided in this chapter and his
or her agents and representatives.
   PERSON: Natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation,
company, or other entity.
   POLICE CHIEF: The police chief of the city of Helena or his or her
authorized representative.
   PRIVATE ALARM MONITORING AGENCY: Any person, firm, business or corporation
which monitors any alarm system.
   RURAL FIRE DEPARTMENT: Any fire department located in Lewis and Clark
County, Montana, organized under the laws of the state of Montana, and
operating under the authority of the Lewis and Clark County fire warden.
   SHERIFF: The sheriff of Lewis and Clark County, Montana, or his or her
authorized representative. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985; amd. Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986;
Ord. 2461, 2-22-1988)
5-11-2: ALARM MONITORING SERVICES:
The city may provide alarm monitoring services for police, sheriff and fire
alarm systems as an adjunct to its emergency communications operations in the
center. The managing authority shall determine which monitoring services will
be provided in the center, giving priority to those applicants having the most
critical exposure in relation to public safety. Any services provided hereunder
may be canceled upon thirty (30) days' written notice. (Ord. 2830, 3-16-1998)
5-11-3: ALARM SYSTEMS MONITORED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Any alarm system to be terminated at the center must have been installed by a
licensed alarm business and meet all applicable standards and requirements of
the state fire marshal, building codes, and other established standards as
required by the managing authority. The system must be compatible with the
center's monitoring facilities. Any privately owned interconnect equipment or
other devices required to be installed in the center for the purposes of
achieving compatibility with center owned equipment shall be subject to
approval by the managing authority. Any privately owned alarm systems installed
in the center must be compatible with all equipment in said center. (Ord. 2406,
7-14-1986)
5-11-4: ALARM SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
Alarm systems terminated in the center shall be maintained in proper working
order at all times. Faulty systems may be disconnected in the center by the
managing authority five (5) days after written notice to the applicant. The
alarm system will not be reconnected until evidence of satisfactory repair or
correction has been submitted to the managing authority. Any alarm that
terminates in the center may be immediately disconnected without notice if said
alarm continually malfunctions. Said alarm shall not be reactivated until
evidence of satisfactory repair or correction has been submitted to the
managing authority. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-5: ALARM SYSTEMS, TRAINING:
Applicants must provide training of personnel in the operation of their alarm
systems. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-6: APPROVING AND ISSUING AUTHORITY:
Any person who seeks to connect an alarm system in the center must comply with
the terms and provisions of this chapter and the following provisions: any
alarm system used for the detection of fire in the city must be approved by the
fire chief of the city. Any alarm system used for the detection of criminal
activity within the city must be approved by the city police chief. Any alarm
system designed to detect criminal activity outside the city limits, but within
Lewis And Clark County, must be approved by the Lewis And Clark County sheriff.
Any alarm system designed to detect fire outside the city, but within Lewis And
Clark County, must be approved by the Lewis And Clark County sheriff, acting as
the Lewis And Clark County fire warden. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-7: APPLICATION FOR MONITORING SERVICES PERMIT:
Application for a permit for monitoring services provided by the center or by a
private alarm monitoring agency shall be filed with the city finance director
and shall be accompanied by the requisite fee. Information necessary to
evaluate permit applications shall be prescribed by the managing authority.
Applications shall be processed only in the name of the person utilizing the
alarm system. A private alarm business may submit an application acting for the
person utilizing the alarm system. The managing authority and the city finance
director reserve the right to reject any and all applications for reasons of
improper application, nonpriority utilization with respect to critical public
safety exposure, or inadequate or improperly installed alarm systems pursuant
to requirements adopted by this chapter. All applications shall provide the
following information: (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986; amd. Ord. 2759, 12-11-1995)
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the owners or lessees of the
protected premises;
   B.   The type of premises to be protected (home, business or other), along
with the address and telephone number of the protected premises;
   C.   The name, address and telephone number of persons with whom the owners
or lessees of the protected premises have contracted for maintenance of said
alarm system;
   D.   The name, address and telephone number of two (2) adult persons who can
be contacted twenty four (24) hours per day to turn off or deactivate the alarm
system;
   E.   The application must be signed by a person owning or renting the
premises upon which the alarm system is located. Further, said signature of
said person shall acknowledge that said owner or lessee has read and is
familiar with the terms of this chapter, and that said person will comply with
said chapter at all future times and places; (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
   F.   Each application for an initial permit hereunder shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee. The initial permit shall be valid for five (5) years
from the date of issuance. Permits may be renewed at the time of expiration for
an additional five (5) year period. Each application for renewal shall be
accompanied by a fee. In addition to said fee, the applicant shall pay a yearly
monitoring service fee to the administrative services director for each alarm
installed that is monitored in the center. Ninety percent (90%) of the money so
collected will be allocated to the operations budget of the center and ten
percent (10%) shall be allocated to the administrative services office for
administration. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
5-11-8: NOTICE OF CHANGE:
Whenever any change occurs relating to the written information required by this
chapter, the permittee shall give written notice thereof to the city within
five (5) days after such change. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-9: LIABILITY:
The city and county of Lewis and Clark assume no additional responsibility for
the security of any permittee's property other than that accorded to any other
property with or without alarm monitoring services. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-10: INSTALLATION:
All alarm systems other than fire alarm systems sold, leased, contracted for or
otherwise maintained and operated by any person within the city shall be
installed and operated in accordance with all applicable standards and
requirements of all applicable building codes, this chapter, and other
applicable established standards as adopted by the city or the managing
authority. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-11: AUDIBLE ALARM STANDARDS FOR CESSATION OF AUDIBLE SIGNAL:
   A.   All alarms will have an automatic reset system which silences the
enunciator on said alarm within twenty (20) minutes after activation. Said
automatic reset feature will also provide that said alarm will not sound again
as the result of the same event that resulted in the original activation. (Ord.
2371, 7-29-1985)
   B.   Upon request of the managing authority, a user or his or her designated
representative shall respond within thirty (30) minutes to the premises whereon
the alarm system is located. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-12: REPAIR:
After any false alarm caused by a mechanical malfunction of the alarm system,
the user shall cause the alarm to be repaired so as to eliminate such
malfunction before reactivating the same. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-13: ALARM TELEPHONE DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or cause to be used any electrical
or mechanical device or attachment to a telephone that automatically reports a
taped or otherwise recorded message to report a police, sheriff or fire
emergency to the center. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-14: AUDIBLE ALARMS SIMILAR TO SIRENS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to install on the exterior or interior of a building an
intrusion detection device or alarm system which upon activation emits a sound
exceeding one hundred five (105) decibels (when measured from outside the
premises), which is similar to sirens in use on emergency vehicles or for civil
defense programs. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-15: ALARM SYSTEMS WHICH CONSTITUTE A HAZARD TO RESPONDING PUBLIC SAFETY
OFFICERS:
No person shall operate or permit an alarm system to be in operation which, due
to the nature of its construction, installation, and/or location, constitutes
an unreasonable hazard to life and limb of responding public safety officers.
(Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-16: PERMIT:
No person shall install, possess, operate, use, service or maintain any alarm
system without a valid permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and no alarm business or alarm agent shall make operable, service,
maintain or repair an alarm system for a user unless said user has such a
permit. Permits may not be transferred to anyone, including, but not limited
to, a purchaser of an alarm system.
Before any alarm user may connect to the emergency alarm panel in the center,
said alarm user must have a permit issued by the city finance director and
written approval of the company which owns and operates said panel. Permission
to connect to said panel will not be denied if the alarm user applicant
complies with the terms of this chapter, including the payment of all fees and
the completion of all forms required hereunder. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
Any alarm system for which a permit is required hereunder may be inspected as
herein provided. For fire alarm systems within the city, said inspections may
be conducted by the city fire chief or his designee. For alarm systems located
within the city designed to detect criminal activity, said inspections may be
conducted by the city police chief or his designee. For alarm systems designed
to detect fire or criminal activity in Lewis And Clark County outside the city
limits, said inspections may be conducted by the Lewis And Clark County sheriff
or his designee. The purpose of said inspection shall be to ascertain that the
information provided on the application for a permit is correct and that the
systems conform to the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-17: APPLICATION/INVESTIGATION AND DENIAL:
   A.   Permit Denial: An application for a permit shall be processed in a
timely manner. The permit may be denied by the finance director on the
following grounds:
      1.   The alarm system is deficient in that it does not comply with
standard rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter and/or results
in excessive false alarms as defined by said rules and regulations; or
      2.   The applicant, his or her employee or agent has knowingly made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application
for a permit; or
      3.   The applicant has had a similar type of permit previously revoked
for good cause within the past year unless the applicant can show a material
change in circumstances since the date of revocation; or
      4.   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Procedure: The finance director shall inform the applicant in writing
of the denial stating the reasons for such denial. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-18: PRIVATE ALARM MONITORING AGENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to putting a business or private person in service, a private
alarm monitoring agency must have a copy of the valid permit issued on behalf
of the business or person to be monitored. No monitoring service shall be
allowed without receipt of said permit.
   B.   A private alarm monitoring agency must provide a current list of all
alarms being monitored by the agency, including the contact person(s) for each
business or person being monitored, to the city finance department on or before
July 1 of each year. Failure to provide such list may result in the revocation
of the permits for any business or person not listed. (Ord. 2759, 12-11-1995)
5-11-19: POSTING OF PERMITS:
Permits shall be posted on the premises in a conspicuous location. Upon
issuance of a permit hereunder, the city finance director will also issue to
the permittee a decal with the permit number thereon. The alarm user shall
cause said decal to be posted on the outside of the window nearest the main
entrance to the premises served by said alarm system. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-20: FALSE ALARM/SERVICE:
The permittee shall be responsible for any service, test, repair, maintenance,
adjustment, or installation which might actuate a false alarm on a particular
alarm system. In the event an alarm agent will be performing repair,
maintenance, testing, adjustment or installation, which might actuate a false
alarm, notification shall be made to the center prior to such activity. In the
event the city police department, city fire department, Lewis And Clark County
sheriff's office, rural fire department, or any other legally constituted
emergency response agency is requested to respond to such false alarm, it shall
be counted as a "false alarm" as defined in this chapter and will require the
payment of a false alarm fee. Newly installed alarms shall be granted a fifteen
(15) day grace period in which to rectify system problems. False alarms during
this period will not be recorded as a "false alarm" as defined hereunder.
If any alarm user suffers more than five (5) false alarms in any twelve (12)
month period, his permit hereunder may be revoked as herein provided. (Ord.
3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
Any alarm user whose alarm system has been disconnected from the center shall
not be allowed to reconnect to the center alarm system until all fees
attributable to said alarm user, pursuant to this chapter, have been paid and
all rules and regulations set forth by this chapter have been complied with.
Any reconnection shall be treated as an initial connection and any fee
attributable to an initial connection must be paid. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-21: NOTICE OF CHANGE, HEARING:
Whenever any change occurs relating to the written information required by this
chapter, the applicant or permittee shall give written notice thereof to the
city finance department within five (5) days after such change or at any
hearing conducted under this chapter, if such hearing is conducted before the
same notice has been given. The applicant or permittee is solely responsible
for the correctness of the information submitted to the city finance
department. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-22: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Alarm systems which produce more than five (5) false alarms in any twelve (12)
month period shall be considered a public nuisance and a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-23: DUE DATE OF FEES:
All fees shall be deemed delinquent thirty (30) days after they are due and
payable. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-24: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION:
The following shall constitute grounds for revocation of a permit:
   A.   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the
application for a permit or in any report or record required to be filed with
any city or county agency;
   C.   Failure by the permittee or his designated representative to respond
within thirty (30) minutes to a request for access to the protected premises
made by the center subsequent to an alarm activation;
   D.   Failure to pay any fee within thirty (30) days of its due date;
   E.   Creating more than five (5) false alarms in any twelve (12) month
period; and (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
   F.   Failure to provide a current list of alarms being monitored by a
private alarm monitoring agency, including the contact person(s) for each
business or person being monitored, to the city finance department on or before
July 1 of each year. (Ord. 2759, 12-11-1995)
5-11-25: PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION:
In the case of a revocation of a permit, the finance director shall inform the
permittee in writing of the revocation of the permit ten (10) days following
the date of such notice of intent. The notice shall state the reasons for such
revocation. The revocation shall be effective in ten (10) days from and after
the service of the notice to revoke. During that ten (10) day period, the
permittee may offer evidence to the finance director showing why the permit
should not be revoked. Based on sufficient evidence, the finance director may
withdraw the revocation. However, any alarm may be deactivated, as herein
provided, even during revocation proceedings. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-26: APPEAL:
Any person whose application for a permit is denied after a hearing as provided
in this chapter, or whose permit is revoked, may appeal to the city commission
within fifteen (15) days from the date of the mailing of notice of such denial
or revocation. The city commission's decision after said hearing shall be final
and conclusive. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-27: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
remaining portions of this chapter. The city commission declares that it would
have passed this chapter and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, and
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more such provisions be
declared unconstitutional. (Ord. 2371, 7-29-1985)
5-11-28: DEDICATED PHONE LINE APPROVAL; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All private alarm monitoring agency reports or calls in to the center must be
by way of dedicated phone lines approved by the managing authority. All such
private alarm monitoring agencies are subject to all applicable portions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2406, 7-14-1986)
5-11-29: PENALTY:
   A.   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
business, person or private alarm monitoring agency convicted of a violation of
this chapter may be punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00).
   B.   In addition to any other penalty herein prescribed, the city finance
director may revoke the license of any business or person who has violated the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2759, 12-11-1995)
CHAPTER 12
COVERED LOAD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-12-1:   Title
5-12-2:   Intent
5-12-3:   Scope
5-12-4:   Prohibited Activities
5-12-5:   Facility Fee
5-12-6:   Penalties For Violation
5-12-7:   Severability
5-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as THE CITY OF HELENA COVERED LOAD
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2595, 3-25-1991)
5-12-2: INTENT:
   A.   This chapter is necessary for the protection of the health and welfare
of the people of the city.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to reduce the level of solid waste along
roadways, to reduce the improper and unregulated disposal of waste, to protect
the public health and safety, and to conserve natural resources whenever
possible. (Ord. 2595, 3-25-1991)
5-12-3: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to all persons, agencies, institutions, businesses,
industries or governmental entities living in, or located within, the city.
(Ord. 2595, 3-25-1991)
5-12-4: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any vehicle on a public
highway, road or street within the city unless the vehicle is so constructed,
or unless the vehicle's load is so secured, as to prevent its contents from
dropping, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom.
   A.   Open loads and overloads of any material must be secured with an
effective cover. This cover may be a tarp or net held firmly in place with
rope, straps, bungies or other securing device. An effective cover may also be
a layer of heavier material, including lumber, brush or garbage containers so
positioned that lighter material is prevented from exiting the vehicle. Waste
contained in securely tied plastic garbage sacks and garbage cans with tied
down lids will not constitute a violation of this chapter.
   B.   The criterion for any cover is the effectiveness of its use. A leaking,
poorly tarped load is a violation of this chapter.
   C.   "Overloads" include vehicles which are spilling or are on the verge of
spilling their contents. (Ord. 2595, 3-25-1991)
5-12-5: FACILITY FEE:
Any person delivering a load of solid waste without a cover to any licensed
solid waste facility will be charged a fee by the facility attendant. (Ord.
3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
5-12-6: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   A person or entity that is convicted of violating this chapter shall be
subject to a penalty of not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00). For a
second conviction under this chapter, a person or entity shall be subject to a
penalty of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon a third or subsequent
conviction under this chapter, a person or entity shall be subject to a penalty
of not more than seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   B.   Only those convictions that have occurred within five (5) years of a
violation may be considered a prior conviction under this chapter. (Ord. 2595,
3-25-1991)
5-12-7: SEVERABILITY:
If a part of this chapter is invalid, all valid parts that are severable from
the invalid part shall remain in effect. If a part of this chapter is invalid
in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all valid
applications that are severable from the invalid applications. (Ord. 2595, 3-
25-1991)
CHAPTER 13
FOLF
SECTION:
5-13-1:   Definitions
5-13-2:   Folfing Prohibited
5-13-3:   Penalty
5-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT: The area contained within the boundaries of the
business improvement district as established by the Helena city commission in
resolution 10914 on August 2, 1995, as described on exhibit "A" attached
thereto and by this reference incorporated herein.
FOLF: A game formally called disc golf. It is played with golf discs and
simulates the game of golf in accordance with the rules of golf on a course
usually containing nine (9) to eighteen (18) "holes" or "tones". The holes or
tones are predesignated stationary targets. The purpose of the game is to hit
each of the targets with the golf disc with a minimum number of throws.
GOLF DISC: A saucer shaped object with a convex top that is designed and
manufactured for the purpose of playing disc golf or folf.
NIGHTTIME: Nighttime means the period from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. until
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the following day, measured by Mountain Standard Time
or, when applicable, mountain daylight savings time. (Ord. 2797, 6-23-1997)
5-13-2: FOLFING PROHIBITED:
No person shall play or engage in the game of folf or throw a golf disc at
nighttime in any area within the business improvement district that has not
been sanctioned as a designated folf course by the city. (Ord. 2797, 6-23-1997)
5-13-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in jail for a term not to exceed six (6)
months, or both. (Ord. 2797, 6-23-1997)
CHAPTER 14
SOCIAL HOST ORDINANCE
SECTION:
5-14-1:   Title
5-14-2:   Definitions
5-14-3:   Duty To Notify Law Enforcement
5-14-4:   Exceptions
5-14-5:   Penalties
5-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SOCIAL HOST ORDINANCE. (Ord. 3099, 7-7-2008)
5-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   ALCOHOL: An intoxicating agent in alcoholic beverages, ethyl alcohol, also
called ethanol, or the hydrated oxide of ethyl.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: A compound produced and sold for human consumption as a
drink that contains more than 0.5 percent of alcohol by volume including beer,
liquor, spirits, wine, and table wine.
   GATHERING: A party or event, where a group of three (3) or more persons have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social activity.
   PERSON: Any individual over eighteen (18) years old, firm, association,
corporation or any organization of any kind.
   PREMISES: Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel
or motel room, or other dwelling unit, hall or meeting room, park, or any other
place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied on a temporary or
permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for a party or
other social function, and whether owned, leased, or rented or any other legal
or possessory interest.
   SOCIAL HOST: Any person who knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person is in possession of or is consuming an alcoholic beverage at a gathering
on the person's premises.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person less than twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
3099, 7-7-2008)
5-14-3: DUTY TO NOTIFY LAW ENFORCEMENT:
A social host shall immediately and by the quickest means of communication give
notice to the Helena police department that an underage person is in possession
of or is consuming an alcoholic beverage at a gathering on the host's premises.
(Ord. 3115, 11-2-2009)
5-14-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
5-14-3 of this chapter does not apply to the provision of an alcoholic beverage
in a nonintoxicating quantity to an underage person by the underage person's
parent or legal guardian, physician, or dentist for medicinal purposes, a
licensed pharmacist upon the prescription of a physician, or an ordained
minister or priest in connection with a religious observance. (Ord. 3099, 7-7-
2008)
5-14-5: PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Any person who fails to comply
with the requirements of this chapter may, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation and, in
addition, may be ordered to pay all costs and expenses involved with the case.
(Ord. 3115, 11-2-2009)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
SANITATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1:   Definitions
6-1-2:   Standards For Accumulation Of Refuse And Garbage
6-1-3:   Storage Of Rubbish
6-1-4:   Prohibition
6-1-5:   Storage Of Waste Matter
6-1-6:   Bulk Storage
6-1-7:   Standards For The Collection Of Refuse And Garbage
6-1-8:   Responsibilities
6-1-9:   Penalties
6-1-10:   Rates And Charges
6-1-11:   Fees And Charges Against Property
6-1-12:   Duties Of Sanitation Supervisor
6-1-13:   Fees To Be Established
6-1-14:   Hearing Of Objections; Charges
6-1-15:   Refunds
6-1-16:   Reserved
6-1-17:   City As Exclusive Provider Of Garbage And Solid Waste Disposal
Services
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions of terms shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning or unless elsewhere expressly stated for specific
application:
   CITY OWNED CONTAINER: Any container supplied to residential or commercial
refuse generators by the city.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person in charge of, owning, leasing,
renting or occupying any multi-family dwelling unit in excess of four (4)
units, business, industrial or commercial building, including, but not limited
to, an apartment complex, store, office, factory, motel or hotel, that
generates refuse.
   COMPOST: The product resulting from the decomposition of leaves, straw,
grasses and other such vegetable matter mixed or unmixed with well rotted
manure, or mixed or unmixed with inorganic materials ordinarily forming a part
of the soil such as sand or lime, loam and used, usable or intended to be used
as a fertilizer and soil conditioner.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: "Director of public works" or "public works
director", where stated in this code, shall mean the director of public works,
or his/her duly authorized representative.
   DISPOSAL AREA: Any site, location, tract of land, area, building, structure
or premises used or intended to be used for refuse transfer and/or disposal.
   GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal, vegetable or other matter that
attends the preparation, consumption, decay, dealing in or storage of meats,
fish, fowl, birds, fruit or vegetables, including the cans, containers or
wrappers wasted along with such materials.
   OCCUPANT: The person occupying a dwelling unit or the person operating,
managing or keeping any hotel, restaurant, food establishment, commercial
establishment, business establishment, school, church, institution or premises
wherein or whereon refuse accumulates or is likely to accumulate.
   REFUSE: Any waste product solid or having the character of solids rather
than liquids in that it will not flow readily without additional liquid and
which is composed wholly or partly of such materials as garbage, swill,
seepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, industrial solid wastes or
domestic solid wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as meat; fruit
or other vegetable or animal matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets, food
establishments or any places dealing in or handling meat, fowl, fruits, grain
or vegetable offal, animal excreta, or the carcasses of animals; brick, plaster
or other waste matter resulting from the demolition, alteration or construction
of buildings or structures; accumulated waste material, cans, containers,
tires, junk, or other such substance which may become a nuisance.
   REFUSE COLLECTION: The process whereby refuse and/or refuse containers
containing refuse are taken from designated locations on any premises and are
loaded into vehicles of any kind intended to transport refuse from the premises
to a disposal area, and whereby empty containers are returned to such
designated location.
   REFUSE COLLECTOR: The person who is or intends to be engaged in the
collection and/or transportation of refuse, including garbage, rubbish or waste
matter in any part of the city.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL: The complete process required for the disposal of any
refuse and shall include all tools, equipment, treatment space, buildings,
structures, appurtenances and materials required to take refuse from a refuse
collector at the premises line or other designated transfer point of a disposal
area, and transport, bury, incinerate, destroy or otherwise dispose of such
refuse.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person generating refuse other than a
"commercial refuse generator" as defined above.
   RUBBISH: Wood, leaves, trimmings from shrubs, dead trees or branches
thereof, shavings, sawdust, excelsior, wooden ware, printed matter, paper,
paper board, pasteboard, grass, rags, straw, boots, shoes, hats and all other
combustible material not included under the term "garbage".
   TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE: That portion of the refuse disposal operation
which provides for the hauling of refuse in bulk or in refuse containers to the
designated transfer point at a disposal area.
   WASTE MATTER: Waste material composed of soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel,
loam, stone, bricks, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes, cinders,
shells, metals and all other noncombustible material which has been or is
discarded or is to be discarded. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984; amd. Ord. 2599, 6-24-
1991)
6-1-2: STANDARDS FOR ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary accumulation and storage of refuse and garbage pending collection:
   A.   All refuse and garbage shall be placed in city owned containers, or
containers approved by the director of public works.
   B.   Residential refuse and garbage generators equipped with city owned
rollout containers shall place refuse and garbage containers on the scheduled
collection days at the curb line in front of their residences. Containers shall
not be placed for collection before six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day
preceding the day of collection, and after the containers are emptied they
shall be removed from the curb line on the day of collection.
   C.   City owned containers shall be distributed and positioned as approved
by the director of public works. Containers serving more than one residence
shall be positioned along the rear or side alley in a manner to facilitate
efficient collection and accessibility for refuse and garbage generators and
city refuse and garbage collectors, as determined by the director of public
works. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-3: STORAGE OF RUBBISH:
Rubbish shall be placed and stored in city owned containers or containers
approved by the director of public works.
Materials that do not fit into city owned containers shall be secured in neat
bundles, easily handled by the collector and not exceeding four feet (4') in
length. Bundles shall be placed neatly in a pile in the generator's portion of
the alley (for alley service), or adjacent to the generator's curb line (for
street service). Refuse and garbage containers and public rights of way shall
not be blocked by placement of said material.
Whenever possible, the refuse generator shall attempt to break down materials
so that they will readily fit into the container. Whenever special handling is
required, the refuse generator shall be responsible to contact the sanitation
department to arrange for special collection. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-4: PROHIBITION:
It is prohibited to place the following materials in a city owned container:
   A.   Large limbs or trimmings that do not allow the container lid to close.
   B.   Flammable liquids.
   C.   Large construction, demolition, or remodeling debris.
   D.   Concrete, dirt or plaster.
   E.   Appliances or other furniture that will not allow the container to
close.
   F.   Hot ashes.
   G.   Dead animals, or parts thereof. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
   H.   Tires. (Ord. 2749, 9-25-1995)
6-1-5: STORAGE OF WASTE MATTER:
Waste matter shall be placed in sturdy, well built containers which will not
break, fall apart, rip or tear while being handled by the collector, or shall
be secured in neat bundles, easily handled by the collector, not exceeding four
feet (4') in length. Prohibited waste matter specified in section
6-1-4 of this chapter shall not be placed in city owned containers. (Ord. 2339,
4-2-1984)
6-1-6: BULK STORAGE:
Bulk handling or storage of refuse of any character shall be subject to review
by the public works director, and the owner or occupant of any industrial,
commercial or business establishment shall make such provisions as the director
of public works may require for the sanitary storage and collection of such
refuse as may be produced in bulk. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-7: STANDARDS FOR THE COLLECTION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary collection of refuse and garbage:
   A.   Every owner or occupant whose container, or the place where the
containers are kept pending collection, not meeting the requirements aforesaid,
shall be duly notified by mail or by personal contact by the public works
director.
   B.   Upon notifying the owner or occupant of the aforesaid violation, the
investigating representative shall establish an improvement deadline and shall
give the owner or occupant at least seven (7) days' written notice of the
improvement deadline.
The director of public works, at the time established for correction, shall
investigate, and if the condition has been found to continue, said director
shall declare it to be a misdemeanor.
   C.   If the director of public works receives notice in writing from the
owner that a structure has been permanently abandoned; or if the director of
public works receives notice in writing from the city director of building and
safety or a Lewis and Clark County health officer that a structure has been
condemned as not habitable, or unsanitary and dangerous to human life, refuse
and garbage service may be discontinued and monthly charges stopped. (Ord.
2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-8: RESPONSIBILITIES:
Every person shall have the duty of maintaining premises or equipment under his
supervision, or of maintaining containers or disposal areas, in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter, Lewis and Clark County health regulations,
and all applicable provisions of state law.
Every owner remains liable for violations imposed upon him by this code even
though an obligation is also imposed on the occupants of his buildings, and
even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupants the duty of
complying with all the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   All commercial refuse generators shall maintain their alleys and keep
the area surrounding the refuse and garbage containers free from refuse,
garbage and other potential hazards to the public health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Those commercial establishments using city owned containers shall bear
the complete responsibility of keeping the containers in a sanitary condition
at all times. No building permit for a commercial establishment shall be issued
without provision having been made for refuse and garbage container storage and
sanitation.
   C.   Containers for the receipt of accumulation of refuse and garbage may be
placed in parks, recreation areas, places of public assembly and along public
ways, subject to the approval of the director of public works. Refuse and
garbage containers in such places shall be placed only in designated locations
acceptable to the director of public works.
   D.   Public markets, all food service establishments producing putrescible
waste and all business areas shall provide adequate and sufficient storage
containers to hold all waste accumulated between collections, without creating
a public hazard.
   E.   Refuse and garbage shall be placed for collection and collected at a
frequency which precludes the possibility of unsightly, unclean and unhealthy
premises or the occurrence of a nuisance, and in no event shall placement and
collection be less than once every two (2) weeks.
   F.   Every tenant and/or owner of the places or occupancies referred to
above shall be responsible for the regular collection of refuse and garbage
from said places of occupancy by authorized collectors of refuse and garbage,
and they shall also be responsible for the payment of all services by said
authorized collectors for said collection from said places of occupancy.
   G.   No person shall remove or permit the removal of any refuse and garbage
placed in containers or placed in an approved manner for collection except by
an authorized collector.
The collector shall transfer the contents of all containers into the vehicles
provided therefor, without spilling the contents of said containers on stairs,
walks, yards or streets.
The collector shall clean up any spillage occurring during collection and shall
completely empty containers. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
   H.   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste
matter, dead animal, or tires or cause the same to be thrown or deposited upon
any street, alley, gutter, park or other public way or throw or deposit the
same in or upon any premises or vacant lot or in any water or waterway thereto,
or store or keep the same except in containers required by this chapter. (Ord.
2339, 4-2-1984; amd. Ord. 2749, 9-25-1995)
No person shall store, deposit or keep refuse in any place or in any manner
where rodents can have access to or feed thereon, or can use such refuse as a
harborage, nest or breeding place.
   I.   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any refuse in any
place not authorized as a disposal area by the director of public works.
When acceptable to the director of public works, the owner of a premises or any
public agency having jurisdiction, may place rubbish and waste matter in low
areas and low lots when properly filled, leveled and covered, and when such
practice is not likely to create an unsanitary condition or nuisance.
The owner of the property receiving such deposit will be held responsible for
any unsanitary condition or nuisances resulting from such deposit.
   J.   Every vehicle used for the collection of refuse and garbage shall be of
a design and type suitably constructed for the intended use, and acceptable to
the director of public works.
   K.   Each person engaged in the construction, repair or demolition of any
building or structure or part thereof, shall remove and dispose of in an
authorized manner, from any street, alley, gutter, park, sidewalk, curbing,
curb space, any public way or any premises not owned by him, all waste matter
or rubbish deposited thereon in connection with that portion of the repair,
construction or demolition work under his special or general supervision.
Such refuse, waste matter and rubbish shall be cleaned up, removed and disposed
of in a sanitary manner within seven (7) days of the final cessation of work on
such building or structure or part thereof, and the area shall be restored to
its original condition by the person conducting said work, unless otherwise
specifically authorized by the director of public works.
   L.   No person may pick over, sort, segregate or salvage any garbage or
refuse deposited in an authorized disposal area.
   M.   No person, who is the owner, agent or occupant of a lot or premises
whereon a building of any kind may exist or of a vacant lot, shall allow any
collection of refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste matter or filth of any
description to remain on such lot or premises longer than three (3) days, or
any shorter period of time specified by the director of public works, after the
date of a written notice issued by the director of public works to remove the
offending material.
   N.   No refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste matter or manure shall be
transported along any public street, alley or public way unless such vehicle is
so constructed and loaded that no such material can fall through or out of such
vehicle.
   O.   Every person who is the owner or custodian of any animals, fowl,
livestock, or game which has died (other than by slaughter for food), any
animal offal from slaughterhouses, slaughter pens, or any offal or putrescible
waste from any place where meat, fish, poultry, game, or fowl are sold, handled
or discarded as unfit for food, or spoiled or condemned, shall dispose of the
remains, carcasses, parts, or entrails thereof within the next available period
of daylight, after such death or accumulation, in a sanitary manner and in
conformance with all requirements and orders of the director of public works.
   P.   All dead animals, or parts thereof, which are found on or in any public
street, alley, parkway, public way, or on public property, shall be reported to
the Helena police department who shall be responsible for the collection,
within the day reported, of the carcass of such animal.
   Q.   All persons owning, occupying or being in control of property fronting
on an alley of this city shall keep the portion of said alley between the
center line thereof and the property line of such property, and fronting on
such property, free from refuse, garbage, rubbish, and waste matter.
   R.   No refuse or garbage shall be collected which is not contained in the
manner set forth in this chapter. Special collections shall be arranged with
the city by the refuse generator. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-9: PENALTIES:
Failure to carry out such duties herein or elsewhere required for the sanitary
accumulation, collection, transportation and disposal of refuse in any place or
in any condition not meeting the requirements of this code is declared a
misdemeanor. Any person violating the provisions of this code shall be punished
as provided herein, except that the minimum fine shall be the sum of ten
dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-10: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Set Forth: It shall be the duty of the city
commission to set a charge for the cost of collecting and disposing of garbage
and refuse in the city by reestablishing both residential rates and commercial
rates in separate classifications and that said fees for such collection shall
be paid in the amounts set forth in the annual resolution hereinafter referred
to:
B. Residential Rates:
   Class I   Residential structures having up to 4 units in 1 structure.
   Class II   Residential structures having more than 4 units in 1 structure.
   Class III   Mobile home parks.
   Class IV   Properties which qualify for the state of Montana class 15
taxation classification.
The public works director shall be required, annually, to calculate the cost of
residential collection and disposal and submit this figure to the city
commission for its consideration. The public works director shall also annually
provide the number of residential units to be assessed, as adjusted by a
determination of the number of equivalent units as follows:
      1.   For the purposes of determining the number of units to be assessed
in a class I residential structure, the public works director may, upon a
proper showing by an owner of class I property, determine on a year by year
basis that the property be assessed on an equivalent number of residential
units rather than on the number of actual units, but in no case less than one
unit. A proper showing for determining equivalent number of units must satisfy
all the following conditions:
         a.   The residential use must prove to be atypical and extraordinary
such that the amount of solid waste generated from all the units is equal to or
less than the amount of solid waste generated from a single residential unit.
Atypical includes units that do not have separate cooking and eating areas; are
used primarily for sleeping purposes by less than two (2) persons; are fully
furnished by the owner; and the owner is responsible for providing all utility
services to the units.
         b.   The property may not require more than weekly pickup from one 90-
gallon container.
      2.   The determination of equivalent number of units in this subsection B
is only valid for a one year period. To be eligible for an annual renewal of
the determination, the property owner must provide information establishing the
continuation of a proper showing. If the property generates such solid waste at
least three (3) times per year that one 90-gallon container is insufficient to
handle the waste, the property must be assessed for the next fiscal year on the
total number of units and does not qualify for a determination of equivalent
units under this section.
   C.   Commercial Rates: The public works director shall be required,
annually, to calculate the cost of commercial collection and disposal and
submit this figure to the city commission for its consideration.
   D.   Transfer Station/Landfill Rates: The public works director shall be
required annually to apply the cost of disposal to the total tons disposed and
submit this figure to the city commission for its consideration. Cost of
disposal shall include transfer station and landfill charges. (Ord. 2931, 1-14-
2002, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2001)
6-1-11: FEES AND CHARGES AGAINST PROPERTY:
   A.   The fees hereinabove established shall be assessed against the real
estate from which such garbage or refuse is collected unless otherwise
specifically provided herein or by the director of public works.
   B.   All commercial garbage and refuse generators shall pay all charges
levied or assessed under this chapter to the city upon a monthly basis. (Ord.
2339, 4-2-1984)
   C.   If, for any cause, any sums owing for commercial service hereunder
become delinquent, garbage and refuse collection service shall be discontinued
until all such delinquencies have been paid in full. Notice of any such
proposed discontinuance shall be sent to the commercial user through the U.S.
mail, addressed to said commercial user at the commercial user's normal mailing
address. Said notice shall inform the commercial user that unless all past due
rates charged hereunder are paid within fifteen (15) days of the date of said
notice, service shall be discontinued. In addition, the notice shall inform the
commercial user that if any questions exist concerning the rates or charges
owed by the commercial user, the commercial user can contact the director of
public works or the director's designee at 316 North Park Avenue, Helena,
Montana, to discuss the matter. If the delinquent amounts have not been paid in
full within fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice, then no further
service shall be rendered by the city to the delinquent commercial user. In
addition, all city owned containers that service commercial user's premises
shall be removed. A twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee shall be paid by commercial
user for return of the container to commercial user's premises after all
delinquencies have been paid in full. This fee may be changed from time to
time, by resolution, when the commercial collection and disposal rates are
changed. (Ord. 2805, 8-4-1997)
   D.   In the event any sums owing for disposal at the transfer station by
commercial garbage and refuse generators become delinquent, said commercial
generator, and/or his representatives, shall be prohibited from further
disposal at the transfer station until all such delinquencies have been paid in
full. (Ord. 2599, 6-24-1991)
6-1-12: DUTIES OF SANITATION SUPERVISOR:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city sanitation supervisor, annually,
before the passage of the resolution fixing the garbage service charge, to
bring current the lists of residential and commercial users in their proper
categories. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city sanitation supervisor to promulgate
and adopt rules and regulations for the operation of the city transfer station,
and to make said rules and regulations easily and readily available to the
public. (Ord. 2599, 6-24-1991)
6-1-13: FEES TO BE ESTABLISHED:
On or before August 15 of each year, the city commission shall pass a
resolution of intention tentatively establishing fees for collection and
disposal of residential garbage and refuse in conformity with an established
schedule. In addition, said resolution of intention shall call for a public
hearing to be held within two (2) weeks of the passage of said resolution of
intention, said public hearing to concern itself with the establishment of said
fees for collection and disposal of garbage and refuse. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984;
amd. Ord. 2599, 6-24-1991)
6-1-14: HEARING OF OBJECTIONS; CHARGES:
At the time set for the public hearing on the proposed fees for the collection
and disposal of garbage and refuse in conformance with this chapter, or at such
time to which said hearing may be continued, the city commission shall hear all
proponents and opponents concerning the establishment of the proposed fees for
the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse. Upon the conclusion of said
hearing, the city commission shall either adopt said fees, or make such changes
in the assessments as it shall deem necessary and proper, and shall pass a
resolution establishing said fees for the collection and disposal of garbage
and refuse. Thereafter, the city finance director shall certify said list of
charges to the county clerk and recorder. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-15: REFUNDS:
No refunds of taxes collected under this chapter shall be made on objections
after the passage of the resolution referred to in section
6-1-13 of this chapter, except in cases of obvious error, and such refunds must
be authorized by the city manager. (Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2339, 4-2-1984)
6-1-17: CITY AS EXCLUSIVE PROVIDER OF GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SERVICES:
Five (5) years from the effective date hereof, the city shall be the sole
provider of garbage and solid waste disposal services within the corporate
limits of the city. This section has no effect on individuals, firms or
companies providing commercial garbage or solid waste disposal services.
However, all private collection and operation of residential garbage and solid
waste disposal services shall cease and terminate within the corporate limits
of the city five (5) years after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2481, 9-26-
1988)
CHAPTER 2
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1:   Delinquent Water Bill Notice
6-2-2:   Books Of Account
6-2-3:   Rules Governing Water Division
6-2-4:   Tapping Charge
6-2-5:   Applications For New Service
6-2-6:   Water Main Extensions; New Water Reservoirs And Pump Stations; Cost
Reimbursement
6-2-7:   Structures Not Served By City Water
6-2-8:   Water Rates
6-2-9:   Water System Development Fee
6-2-1: DELINQUENT WATER BILL NOTICE:
Whenever the water bill of a consumer has been delinquent for thirty (30) days
in any sum or amount, the water division shall at once notify him by such means
and at such address as seems most likely to give him actual notice of the fact
of such delinquency and shall advise him that unless such delinquent bill is
paid in full within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing such notice, his
water service will be discontinued forthwith. In the absence of the use of any
other reasonable means of notice, a notice given by certified mail, deposited
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the consumer at the
address where he receives such water, shall be deemed reasonable notice. (Ord.
896, 12-11-1914)
6-2-2: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:
The water division shall keep a complete set of books which shall at all times
show the distribution of accounts of the water department and said books shall
be open to inspection at all times and by the public or any officer of the city
during the hours said office is open for business. (Ord. 896, 12-11-1914)
6-2-3: RULES GOVERNING WATER DIVISION:
The following rules shall regulate the use and supply of water:
   RULE 1: All applications for the use of water must be made at the office of
the building and safety division of the community development department on the
printed form for that purpose. Every such application must be made by the owner
of the property to be served or the owner's authorized agent and must include
the purposes for which the water is required. The applicant must agree to
conform to these rules as a condition of use of water.
   RULE 2: No person supplied with water from the city mains will be entitled
to use it for any other purpose than those stated in the application, or supply
in any way other persons or families.
   RULE 3: The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each
separate house or premises may be controlled by a separate shutoff valve placed
within the right of way near the property to be served, which valve shall be
placed within a visible and accessible curb box, and one person, company or
association must pay for all the water used through said service for his, her
or their own use, or for the use of others to whom it may be accessible.
   RULE 4: Where water is now supplied through one service to several houses,
families or persons, the public works director may either decline to furnish
water until separate services are provided, or may continue the supply on the
condition that one person shall pay for all on the same service.
   RULE 5: The water may be shut off at any time from the mains without the
notice for repairs, extension or other necessary purposes, and persons having
boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against danger
of explosion or collapse. The city will not be responsible for the safety of
the boilers on the premises of any water consumer.
   RULE 6: Water will not be furnished where there are defective or leaking
faucets, closets or other fixtures, and when such may be discovered, the supply
will be withdrawn until the proper repairs are made.
   RULE 7: The city shall not be responsible for pipes and fixtures; all
owners, at their own expense, must keep service pipes from city mains and all
their apparatus in good working order and properly protected from frost or
other dangers. No claims shall be made against the city on account of the
breaking of any service pipes or apparatus, or for accidental failure in the
supply of water. No reduction from the regular rates shall be made for any time
that service pipes or fixtures may be frozen. (Ord. 2900, 9-25-2000)
   RULE 8:
   A.   All usage of city produced water is subject to the water use reduction
staging plan which provides for voluntary and mandatory water reduction
measures that will be in effect for various water supply statuses.
   B.   The water use reduction staging plan for each stage is as follows:
      STAGE I
      Water Supply Status: Normal with adequate reservoir levels and all supply
sources available.
      Water Reduction Measures: None.
      STAGE II
      Water Supply Status: Peak daily demand greater than eighty five percent
(85%) of system capacity; or mountain reservoir levels low with risk of future
shortage.
      Water Reduction Measures: Voluntary restrictions.
      STAGE III
      Water Supply Status: Peak daily demands at or exceeding system capacity;
in town reservoirs less than seventy percent (70%) full with continuing
decline; extended electrical power outage; treatment plant failure; or major
pump or transmission failure.
      Water Reduction Measures: Mandatory watering and irrigating restrictions
as follows:
      1.   Designated days for watering corresponding to the last digit of the
street address for the property; and
      2.   Hours for watering restricted to designated hours.
      STAGE IV
      Water Supply Status: Water supply emergency by peak daily demand
exceeding system capacity by two (2) MGD in a twenty four (24) hour period; in
town reservoirs less than twenty five percent (25%) full with continuing
decline; catastrophic systems failure of a duration of more than twenty four
(24) hours and in town reservoirs less than twenty five percent (25%) full; or
severe prolonged drought of more than one week with the foregoing conditions.
      Water Reduction Measures: Mandatory restrictions as follows:
      1.   All outdoor water uses prohibited; and
      2.   All other water uses prohibited except for necessary domestic indoor
use for drinking water and sanitation.
   C.   The following actions and penalties may be imposed for infractions of
mandatory restrictions:
      1.   First Infraction:
         a.   Notice of infraction may be posted on violator's door, stating
penalties for infractions of mandatory restrictions and providing water
conservation tips; and
         b.   If the violator is not the owner of the property a copy of notice
must be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the owner of the property
upon which the infraction occurred.
      2.   Second Infraction Occurring Within A Six Month Period:
         a.   During a stage III status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty imposed by the court; and
         b.   During a stage IV status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty imposed by the court.
      3.   Third Infraction Occurring Within A Six Month Period:
         a.   During a stage III status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty of not less than seventy dollars ($70.00); and
         b.   During a stage IV status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty of not less than one hundred forty dollars ($140.00).
      4.   Fourth Infraction Occurring Within A Six Month Period:
         a.   During a stage III status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty of not less than one hundred five dollars ($105.00);
         b.   During a stage IV status, a civil offense punishable by a civil
penalty of not less than two hundred ten dollars ($210.00); and
         c.   Water service may be shut off without notice to prevent future
violations. If water service is discontinued, service may not be restored until
applicable fees charged for turning the water on and off and outstanding civil
penalties are paid. (Ord. 2934, 4-8-2002)
   RULE 9: No plumber or other person will be allowed to make connections with
the city mains or make connections in any conduit, pipe or fixture connecting
therewith, or to connect pipes when they have been disconnected, or to turn
water off or on for any premises without permission of the building and safety
division.
   RULE 10: None but competent and licensed plumbers shall be allowed to do any
work in connection with the city service where water may be drawn from the city
mains, and all plumbers must make in writing an accurate return of the work
done within twenty four (24) hours after completion, and before water will be
turned on the plumber must describe the position of the service pipes,
ferrules, stop cocks, shutoff valves and other fixtures, outside of buildings,
by reference to street and lot corners, in a form required by the public works
department.
   RULE 11: Plumbers failing to perform their work according to the established
rules and regulations, or executing it unskillfully to the detriment of the
city waterworks, may be barred from making connections to the city mains by
order of the public works director.
   RULE 12: Employees of the utility maintenance division have free access at
proper hours of the day to all parts of buildings in which water is delivered
from the city mains for the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes
and fixtures, the manner in which the water is used, and for the purpose of
reading meters.
   RULE 13: The water rates shall be charged against the property to which it
is furnished and against the owner thereof, and if for any cause any sums owing
therefor become delinquent, the water shall be shut off from the property and
in no case turned on again until all such delinquencies have been paid in full.
No change of ownership shall affect the application of this rule.
   RULE 14: All accounts for water shall be kept in the name of the owner of
the property and not in the name of any tenant, and the owner only, or his
legally authorized agent, shall be held responsible for payment of water rates.
   RULE 15: On failure to comply with the rules and regulations established as
a condition to the use of water, or to pay the water rates or meter rent, or
any charge or penalty imposed, in the time and manner herein provided, the
water may be shut off until payment of the amount due is made, together with an
amount to be set by resolution to cover the expense of turning the water on and
off. In addition, any time an individual requests that the water to a home or
place of business be turned on or off, there shall be assessed an amount to be
set by resolution for turning the water on and off.
   RULE 16: Should the occupant of the premises turn on the water, or cause it
to be turned on after it has been shut off at the curb cock or shutoff valve,
it will be turned off at the main, and an amount to be set by resolution to
cover the expense of turning it off and on, payable before the water is turned
on.
   RULE 17: The following acts are prohibited:
   A.   To use city water or permit it to be used for any other purpose than
that for which the party pays water rates.
   B.   To permit water pipes or fixtures to remain in a leaky condition.
   C.   To allow water fixtures to be run when not in use for the purpose
intended.
   D.   To open, close, turn or interfere with, or to attach to, or connect
with any fire hydrant, stop valve or stop cock belonging to the public works
department.
   E.   To disturb or damage any pipe, machinery, tools or other property of
the public works department.
   F.   To throw any deleterious matter into any of the reservoirs.
   G.   To deface or injure any buildings or other improvements of the public
works department.
   H.   To place any foreign thing upon the grounds of the public works
department or such portion of the grounds and streets as may be under its
control.
   I.   To disturb or injure any watershed, lawn, grass plot, flowers, vines,
bushes or trees belonging to the public works department.
   RULE 18: All meters shall be and remain the property of the city and may be
removed at the discretion of the director of public works. Should a meter fail
to register accurately, the consumer shall be charged at the average daily
consumption as shown by the meter during the last three (3) months that the
same was in good order. In the event a consumer notifies the utility
maintenance division that the meter is not registering accurately, the director
of public works may in his discretion require a deposit in an amount to be set
by resolution, refundable to the consumer if the meter is defective, to be
forfeited to the city in the event that the meter, when tested by the utility
maintenance division, is found to be registering accurately. City conducted
tests to determine the accuracy of the meter shall be conclusive in determining
whether the deposit shall be refunded.
   RULE 19: When meters are in use for determining the amount of water used by
consumers, the water rent shall be payable on or before the fifth day of every
month, and if not paid within thirty (30) days thereof, said consumer shall be
subject to the penalties provided in section
6-2-1 of this chapter.
   RULE 20: No person other than an authorized employee of the utility
maintenance division shall make any tap or connection with any main or
distributing pipe of the city.
   RULE 21: All water service must be provided from public mains in public
rights of way or easements to the city. Each service shall be placed, to the
extent practical, perpendicular to the public main, right of way or easement.
All water service lines installed for consumers of the city water system must
be placed at a minimum depth of six feet six inches (6'6") from the surface of
the ground.
   RULE 22: It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the water service to
disconnect said service upon abandonment or nonuse at the point of connection
with the public main by a method acceptable to the director of public works.
Should the owner fail to satisfactorily disconnect such service, the utility
maintenance division may make such disconnection and charge the owner the
actual cost thereof.
   A street opening permit is required for disconnecting water service lines at
the water main in the street right of way. A city building/plumbing inspector
shall inspect any water service being abandoned. The service line shall be
disconnected from the corporation stop and the corporation stop shall be in the
off position. If the corporation stop is leaking, the inspector will advise the
utility maintenance division so the leak can be repaired prior to filling the
ditch.
   RULE 23: No adjustment shall be made on estimated water and sewer bills on
the estimated cycle. Rather, any such adjustment must be made only on the
regular reading cycle after the meter is read by approved city meter readers.
   RULE 24: Any unpaid water bill that is more than thirty (30) days past due
shall have assessed against it interest at the rate of 1.5 percent per month.
(Ord. 2900, 9-25-2000)
   RULE 25: When a backflow prevention device is required under the applicable
fire, building, or plumbing code as adopted by the city to prevent the
possibility of polluting the city's water supply, the approved backflow
prevention device must be installed, maintained, replaced and repaired in
accordance with the applicable uniform code. Backflow prevention devices must
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually thereafter. Testing
must be performed by a certified backflow prevention assembly tester who holds
a current certificate issued by a certification program of any state
authorizing the person to test backflow prevention devices or who holds a
current certificate from the American Society Of Sanitary Engineers, American
Backflow Prevention Association, Foundation For Cross Connection Control And
Hydraulic Research, or the American Water Works Association. The results of
testing must be submitted to the city within thirty (30) days after the test.
If the test shows that the device is defective or inoperative, the device must
be repaired or replaced within thirty (30) days after the test and verification
of the repair or replacement must be provided to the city no later than fifteen
(15) days after the repair or replacement. If the results of required testing
are not timely provided to the city or needed repairs or replacements are not
timely made, the city may terminate water service to the property after
providing a fifteen (15) day notice of its intent to do so, except if there is
imminent threat of pollution to the water supply the city may immediately
terminate water service without prior notice, but must provide notice of the
reason for the termination within five (5) working days. For violations of this
rule, the city may use any other remedy as authorized by law, including
criminal prosecution and civil action. (Ord. 3161, 10-29-2012)
6-2-4: TAPPING CHARGE:
Any person desiring to make connection to the water or sewer mains of the city
must make application in writing, and pay a fee for the cost of tapping in
advance. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
6-2-5: APPLICATIONS FOR NEW SERVICE:
   A.   Application: Any prospective consumer of water service may become a
consumer by making an application for water service, procuring a permit
therefor, providing any necessary easements and paying the applicable fees and
cost of installation as provided in this code. Charges for water for such
consumers shall be made on the basis of then existing rates.
   B.   Approved Water Meters:
      1.   All consumers of water services from the city shall, prior to
receiving water service from the city, install an approved water meter obtained
from the city as hereinafter provided.
      2.   Only water meters obtained from the city may be used for the
metering of water consumption for city water billing purposes. The fee for
obtaining a water meter will be set by resolution by the city commission.
   C.   Responsibility For Repair Or Replacement: A water meter may not be
installed for use or connected to the city water system until approved by the
city. After an approved installation of a water meter, the city is responsible
for its repair or replacement, except when the repair or replacement is
required because of damage to or loss of the meter due to a negligent or
intentional act by the customer, in which case the customer is responsible for
the repair or replacement. When a customer is liable for the repair or
replacement, the actual cost may be added to the water bill for the property
served by the water meter.
   D.   Meter Installation Requirements: Water meters may only be installed by
persons authorized by law to do so, and pursuant to applicable approval from
the city. Water meters must be installed in accordance with the requirements of
section
6-2-3 of this chapter, and will be inspected by the city for compliance
therewith. (Ord. 3022, 3-28-2005)
6-2-6: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS; NEW WATER RESERVOIRS AND PUMP STATIONS; COST
REIMBURSEMENT:
The following criteria apply to water main extensions, new water reservoirs and
new water pump stations, and providing for rebate of reimbursable costs:
   A.   Where water main extensions are required to serve facilities,
structures, or subdivisions, installation must conform to the following
requirements:
      1.   Beginning at the point where service is available, the main must be
extended in the public right of way to the property being served and in the
public right of way along the entire frontage of the served property. If public
right of way is not available for installation of the main, then the main may
be installed in an easement exclusive to the city that is at least twenty feet
(20') in width. The director of public works may authorize a narrower easement
width upon a showing of special circumstances and a showing that the narrower
easement width is not detrimental to the city's ability to service, maintain,
or replace the main. To ensure the orderly expansion of city water mains and
connectivity for service to adjacent properties, the director of public works
may require the extension of mains in rights of way or approved easements
adjacent to and through the property being served. All aspects of the
connection, location, and installation of mains are subject to review and
approval by the director of public works.
      2.   Main extensions must include all valves, hydrants, and necessary
appurtenances required by the city.
      3.   The minimum size for public water mains is eight inches (8") in
diameter unless otherwise authorized by the director of public works. All water
mains must be installed as authorized by the director of public works. At the
option of the director of public works, a larger main may be required to
provide for future expansion of the water distribution system. When a larger
main is required beyond what is needed for meeting peak hourly domestic demand
and fire demand for the property to be served, the city will contribute the
difference in the materials price between the size needed by the property to be
served and the size required by the director of public works.
      4.   All water mains must be looped by connecting to city mains at each
end, unless otherwise approved by the director of public works.
   B.   Applications for water main extensions, reservoirs, and pump stations
must be submitted to the public works department. City approval of plans and
specifications is required prior to the commencement of any construction
activity associated with the improvements. The city may elect to construct the
improvements. If the public works department arranges for the construction of
the proposed extension, reservoir, or pump station, the applicant shall make an
advance payment to the city of, or provide a financial guarantee to the city
for, one hundred thirty percent (130%) of the city engineer's estimate of the
cost of the improvements. The advance payment or financial guarantee is due
prior to assignment of priority and scheduling of the installation of the
improvements. The public works department reserves the right to schedule the
timing of construction in consideration of the season and other workload
priorities. Following the completion of construction and final acceptance of
the improvements by the city, the city engineer shall total all of the costs
involved and subtract the advance payment from the actual cost. Any overpayment
will be refunded to the applicant.
   C.   An applicant who has paid for the construction of an extension of a
water main, reservoir, or pump station is eligible for a proportional rebate
from the owner of adjacent property who subsequently applies to directly
install a service connection to the extension of the main, or any new service
connection utilizing the reservoir or pump station. The rebate is determined
and administered according to the following requirements:
      1.   The applicant must establish eligibility for the rebate by applying
for the rebate within one year after acceptance of the completed main
extension, reservoir, or pump station.
      2.   For main extensions, the amount of each rebate is determined by
dividing the length of property frontage associated with the proposed new
service by the total length of property frontage associated with the new main,
multiplied by the project cost of the main extension eligible for rebate.
      3.   For reservoirs or pump stations, the amount of the rebate is
proportional to the capacity of the reservoir or pump station, or, as agreed
upon in a written agreement between the applicant entitled to the rebate and
the party obtaining service through the improvement, including the city.
      4.   For a new subdivision, the developer shall pay the entire rebate for
all serviceable property within the subdivision as a condition for final plat
approval.
      5.   The total cost of a project is the actual cost of construction,
including engineering, testing, labor, materials, and administration fee, as
provided by the applicant and verified by the public works department.
      6.   The period for which an applicant is eligible to receive rebates is
twenty (20) years from the date of acceptance of the completion of the water
main extension, reservoir, or pump station by the public works department.
      7.   Rebate payments set forth herein shall be paid to the public works
department for direct reimbursement to the applicant.
      8.   If the city requires a main extension larger in diameter than eight
inches (8") and participates in the cost in accordance with this section, the
main extension rebate to the applicant may not include the amount of the city's
participation in the cost.
   D.   The city is entitled to a rebate under the provisions of this section
for the amount it pays toward construction, installation, and increased sizing
of water mains, reservoirs, and pump stations, and for rebates the city has
paid.
   E.   The building and safety division may not issue any permit to a property
owner desiring to tap mains subject to a rebate until the public works
department certifies that the property owner has first paid the amount of
rebate owed. (Ord. 3080, 3-26-2007)
6-2-7: STRUCTURES NOT SERVED BY CITY WATER:
The city may prohibit the construction of any structure which is so situated
that it cannot be served with city water or may permit the construction of such
structures subject to such reasonable conditions as the city may find necessary
if city water cannot be supplied to the structure. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the requirement that an adequate water well be provided
for the structure 1 . (1979 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 11 of this code for water wells.
6-2-8: WATER RATES:
On and after the effective date of this section, any change or alteration in
the water rates and charges set by the city shall be established by resolution
passed by the city commission. (Ord. 2243, 1-4-1982)
6-2-9: WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE:
   A.   Computation Of Fee: Any party desiring to connect to the city water
system shall be subject to a water system development fee (SDF).
Said fee shall be paid in full by the party seeking connection before issuance
of the building permit. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   B.   Water Service Upgrade: Whenever a customer requests an upgrade in water
service that necessitates the installation of a larger meter, said customer
shall pay to the city an incremental water system development fee. The
incremental water system development fee shall be computed by subtracting the
smaller meter's system development fee from that of the larger meter's. Said
fee shall be due and payable at the time application is made for the upgraded
service. No refund shall be made to any water user who decreases his/her meter
size.
   C.   Fire Lines: A water line devoted exclusively to providing fire
protection services is a fire line and shall be exempt from water system
development fees.
   D.   Credit For Excess Capacity: After the effective date of this section,
when an applicant is required to pay for water improvements that are extra
capacity general benefit facilities (defined in subsection G of this section),
the applicant may request that the cost for the extra capacity paid by the
applicant become a credit against the water system development fee for
properties of the applicant served by installed water improvements. The
director of public works is to determine the amount of the recommended credit
based upon the cost of the approved extra capacity general benefit facilities.
The city commission may then, by resolution, grant credit to the applicant to
be used toward water system development fees.
   E.   Size Of Meter: The city reserves the right to determine the size of
water meters to be installed on customer water service lines.
   F.   Relationship To Other Fees: The water system development fees
established herein shall be paid to the city in addition to any other water
fees, rentals or charges adopted by the city commission pursuant to other
ordinances or resolutions.
   G.   Use Of Fees: All funds received in payment of water system development
fees shall be deposited in a segregated account. The use of said funds, and any
interest earned thereon, shall be for expansion of general benefit water
facilities and/or for the retirement of bonds sold for such purposes. "General
benefit water facilities" are defined as water treatment facilities, water
pumping stations, storage reservoirs, and water transmission and supply lines
more than twelve inches (12") in diameter. Expenditures of these funds shall be
recommended by the director of public works and authorized by the city
commission by passage of a resolution. At no time shall more than one-half (1/
2) of the estimated annual proceeds be committed to retirement of bonds.
   H.   Updating Of Fees: The fee shall be updated at a minimum of once every
three (3) years on the anniversary of its effective date, based upon the
following formula, utilizing the most recent available edition of the "Handy
Whitman Index Of Cost Trends Of Water Utility Construction For The Plateau
Region" to determine the current depreciated replacement value:
 
       CDRV - OD = Charge per capacity unit
       MCU
Where:            
      CDRV = Current depreciated replacement value
      OD   = Outstanding debt principal
      MCU  = Maximum capacity units
 
(Ord. 2401, 5-19-1986)
CHAPTER 3
WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1:   Wastewater Service Fund
6-3-2:   Wastewater Rates
6-3-3:   Duties Of Customer Service Division
6-3-4:   Wastewater Main Extensions And Lift Stations; Cost Reimbursement
6-3-5:   Septic Waste Discharge Regulated
6-3-6:   Rules Governing Wastewater Service
6-3-7:   Wastewater Systems Development Fee
6-3-1: WASTEWATER SERVICE FUND:
For the purpose of the maintenance and operation, replacement and depreciation
of the wastewater system of the city, there is hereby established a fund
designated as the "wastewater service fund" of the city, into which shall be
placed returns and charges against each person using or making use of the
wastewater collection system, treatment plant and related facilities of the
city, which charges and rentals are hereby fixed on the basis of water
consumption and which rates, charges and rentals shall and are hereby
established as a surcharge added to and placed on the water bills of water
consumers of the city. (Ord. 2925, 12-3-2001)
6-3-2: WASTEWATER RATES:
   A.   On and after the effective date of this section, any change or
alteration in the wastewater rates and charges set by the city shall be
established by resolution of the city commission.
   B.   Owners of property used principally for residential purposes,
regardless of the number of dwelling units, will be billed monthly for
wastewater service provided. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
monthly charge for wastewater service for July through the following June of
each year is determined by multiplying the property's average daily water usage
as metered during the previous months of October through May times 30.42. The
average daily water use is calculated by dividing the actual water usage as
recorded by all valid water meter readings taken during October through May by
the total number of days falling between the meter readings for which the meter
is active and accurately measuring water flow. The days which may not be used
in the denominator in the calculation of average daily water use are: 1) those
during which the property is not actively receiving water service; and 2) those
during which the water meter could not accurately measure the usage 1 .
   C.   For property that does not have valid water meter readings during the
base period of October through the following May as described in subsection B
of this section, or whose city water consumption is not metered, the volume of
water to be used to compute the wastewater charge for each monthly period is
based on an average of one or more similar properties on the metered system. If
there are no similar properties, the city may calculate an estimated volume.
   D.   Owners of other types of property are charged for wastewater service
based on actual monthly water usage for each billing period. The actual monthly
water usage does not include water used solely for irrigation purposes and
independently measured by a city approved meter for such use.
   E.   Property served by an authorized well that uses the city's wastewater
service to dispose of well water must, at the property owner's expense, have a
city approved water meter installed on the well. The wastewater service charge
is based upon the amount of well water produced as measured by the meter and is
determined using the same methodology as for other wastewater customers. If a
city approved water meter has not been installed, the volume of water to be
used to compute the wastewater charge for each month is based on the twelve
(12) month average of one or more similar properties on the metered system.
   F.   This section applies to wastewater charges imposed on and after July 1,
2005. (Ord. 3003, 10-18-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title for water regulations.
6-3-3: DUTIES OF CUSTOMER SERVICE DIVISION:
It shall be the duty of the customer service division and the officials and
employees thereof to charge for and collect the wastewater charges, rates and
rentals herein provided for as a surcharge to be added to and placed on the
water bills of water consumers of the city, and to do all things necessary to
ensure the collection of such wastewater service rates, charges and rentals
with and added to the water consumption charges collected for the public works
department.
All monies collected by the customer service division for the wastewater
charges, rates and rentals, as herein provided, shall be kept and maintained in
a separate fund and shall be delivered to and deposited in a fund to be known
as the "wastewater service fund" of the city. (Ord. 2925, 12-3-2001)
6-3-4: WASTEWATER MAIN EXTENSIONS AND LIFT STATIONS; COST REIMBURSEMENT:
The following criteria apply to wastewater main extensions, lift stations,
force mains and interceptor mains, and providing for a rebate of reimbursable
costs:
   A.   Where wastewater main extensions are required to serve facilities,
structures, or subdivisions, installation must conform to the following
requirements:
      1.   Beginning at the point where service is available, the main must be
extended in the public right of way to the property being served and in the
public right of way along the entire frontage of the served property. If public
right of way is not available for installation of the main, then the main may
be installed in an easement exclusive to the city that is at least twenty feet
(20') in width. The director of public works may authorize a narrower easement
width upon a showing of special circumstances and a showing that the narrower
easement width is not detrimental to the city's ability to service, maintain,
or replace the main. To ensure the orderly expansion of city wastewater mains
and connectivity for service to adjacent properties, the director of public
works may require the extension of mains in rights of way or approved easements
adjacent to and through the property being served. All aspects of the
connection, location, and installation of mains are subject to review and
approval by the director of public works.
      2.   Main extensions must include all manholes and necessary
appurtenances required by the city.
      3.   The minimum size for wastewater mains is eight inches (8") in
diameter. All wastewater mains must be installed as authorized by the director
of public works. At the option of the director of public works, a larger main
may be required to provide for increased flows due to future expansion of the
wastewater collection system. When a larger main is required beyond what is
needed for projected use of applicant's property, the city will contribute the
difference in the materials price between the size needed by the property to be
served and the size required by the director of public works.
   B.   Applications for wastewater main extensions, lift stations, force mains
and interceptor mains must be submitted to the public works department. City
approval of plans and specifications is required prior to the commencement of
any construction activity associated with the improvements. The city may elect
to construct the improvements. If the public works department arranges for the
construction of the proposed extension, lift station or other wastewater mains,
the applicant shall make an advance payment to the city of, or provide a
financial guarantee to the city for, one hundred thirty percent (130%) of the
city engineer's estimate of the cost of the improvements. The advance payment
or financial guarantee is due prior to assignment of priority and scheduling of
the installation of the improvements. The public works department reserves the
right to schedule the timing of construction in consideration of the season and
other workload priorities. Following the completion of construction and final
acceptance of the improvements by the city, the city engineer shall total all
of the costs involved and subtract the advance payment from the actual cost.
Any overpayment will be refunded to the applicant.
   C.   An applicant who has paid for the construction of an extension of a
wastewater main, lift station, force main or interceptor main is eligible for a
proportional rebate from the owner of adjacent property who subsequently
applies to directly install a service connection to the extension of the main,
or who benefits from the lift station, including its force main or interceptor
main. The rebate is determined and administered according to the following
requirements:
      1.   The applicant seeking rebate for construction and installation of a
wastewater main extension must establish eligibility for the rebate by applying
for the rebate within one year after acceptance of the completed main
extension.
      2.   For main extensions, the amount of each rebate is determined by
dividing the length of property frontage associated with the proposed new
service by the total length of property frontage associated with the new main,
multiplied by the project cost of the main extension eligible for rebate.
      3.   For lift stations, force mains and interceptor mains, the amount of
the rebate is proportional to the capacity of the lift station, force main or
interceptor main, or, as agreed upon in a written agreement between the
applicant entitled to the rebate and the party obtaining service from the
improvement, including the city.
      4.   For a new subdivision, the developer shall pay the entire rebate for
all serviceable property within the subdivision as a condition for final plat
approval.
      5.   Service connections approved by the city and made to a main or lift
station prior to the applicant applying for rebate are not eligible for rebate.
      6.   The total cost of a project is the actual cost of construction,
including engineering, testing, labor, materials, and administration fee, as
provided by the applicant and verified by the public works department.
      7.   The period for which an applicant is eligible to receive rebates is
twenty (20) years from the date of acceptance of the completion of the
wastewater main extension, lift station, force main or interceptor main by the
public works department.
      8.   Rebate payments set forth herein shall be paid to the public works
department for direct reimbursement to the applicant.
      9.   If the city requires a main extension larger in diameter than eight
inches (8") and participates in the cost in accordance with this section, the
main extension rebate to the applicant may not include the amount of the city's
participation in the cost.
   D.   The city is entitled to a rebate under the provisions of this section
for the amount it pays toward construction, installation, and increased sizing
of wastewater mains, lift stations, force mains and interceptor mains, and for
rebates the city has paid.
   E.   The building and safety division may not issue any permit to a property
owner desiring to tap mains subject to a rebate until the public works
department certifies that the property owner has first paid the amount of
rebate owed. (Ord. 3079, 3-26-2007)
6-3-5: SEPTIC WASTE DISCHARGE REGULATED:
   A.   Except as herein provided, no person shall cause any septic waste to be
disposed of in any part of the wastewater system owned and operated by the
city.
   B.   Persons wishing to dispose of septic waste in the city wastewater
system shall dump said waste into designated waste receptacle facilities at the
city wastewater treatment plant or as assigned by the water/wastewater
treatment division. Said dumping shall be done under the supervision of the
city director of public works or the director's designee. If septic waste is
determined to be harmful to the wastewater treatment processes, the city
reserves the right to discontinue the dumping of said waste.
   C.   The Helena city commission may, from time to time, establish fees for
the discharge of septic waste pursuant hereto. Said fees shall be adopted by
resolution after the appropriate public hearings have been held. The fees are
to be billed to the septic waste hauler monthly by the water/wastewater
treatment division. Payment is due thirty (30) days from the date mailed. If
any sum or amount of the bill to a hauler is delinquent after thirty (30) days,
the hauler shall be given written notice of the delinquency and advised that
unless the delinquent bill is paid in full within fifteen (15) days of the date
of notification, the hauler will lose the privilege of disposing of septic
waste at the wastewater treatment facility. Notice of delinquency will be given
by depositing the notice in the U.S. mail, addressed to hauler's last known
address with postage prepaid, or by personally delivering the notice to the
hauler or hauler's agent. The privilege to dispose of septic waste may not be
reestablished until the hauler pays any outstanding amount owed in full and
pays the costs for collection of those fees.
   D.   Any person violating this section shall be subject to the criminal and
civil provisions of chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 2925, 12-3-2001)
6-3-6: RULES GOVERNING WASTEWATER SERVICE:
The following rules shall regulate the discharge and conveyance of wastewater:
   RULE 1: All applications for service connection to the city's wastewater
system must be made at the office of the building and safety division of the
community development department on the form for that purpose. Every such
application must be made by the owner of the property to be served or the
owner's authorized agent and must include the nature of wastewater discharged
into the system. The applicant must agree to conform to these rules as a
condition of use of the city's wastewater system.
   RULE 2: No person serviced by the city's wastewater system is entitled to
use it for any other purpose than those stated in the application, or to
service in any way other persons or families.
   RULE 3: The service lines must be so arranged that the discharge from each
separately owned house or premises is a separate service line and the owner of
each house or premises is liable for the charges for the wastewater service
provided by the city to that owner's house or premises. One service line may
service multiple units that are separately owned provided the common service
line is owned, operated and under the control of a single person or entity who
is responsible for the maintenance of the service line, including the
connection with the main.
   RULE 4: Where wastewater is now discharged through one service line from
houses or premises under separate ownerships, the director of public works may
either decline to furnish wastewater service water until separate services are
provided or may continue the service on the condition that one person or entity
is responsible for the shared service line.
   RULE 5: The wastewater service may be interrupted without notice for
maintenance, repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes. The city is not
responsible for damages resulting from the temporary interruption of wastewater
service.
   RULE 6: Wastewater service may not be furnished where there are uncontrolled
sources of clear water inputs including defective or leaking faucets, water
closets or other fixtures.
   RULE 7: The city is not responsible for service pipes, internal plumbing and
fixtures; all owners at their own expense must keep service pipes to city mains
and all their apparatus in good working order and properly protected from
plugging, freezing or other dangers. No claims may be made against the city on
account of the plugging, freezing or breaking of any service pipes or
apparatus. No reduction from the regular rates shall be made for any time that
service pipes or fixtures may be frozen.
   RULE 8: No plumber or other person other than authorized personnel from the
public works department is allowed to make connections to the city wastewater
system or make connections in any conduit, pipe or fixture connecting
therewith, or to connect pipes when they have been disconnected, or to
reinstate wastewater service off or on any premises without permission of the
building and safety division.
   RULE 9: None but competent and licensed plumbers are allowed to do any work
in connection with the city's wastewater system and all plumbers shall make in
writing an accurate return of the work done within twenty four (24) hours after
completion, and before wastewater service will be provided the plumber shall
describe the position of the service lines and other fixtures, outside of
buildings, by reference to street and lot corners in a form required by the
building and safety division.
   RULE 10: Plumbers failing to perform their work according to the established
rules and regulations, or executing it unskillfully to the detriment of the
city wastewater system, may be barred from making connection to the city
wastewater system, by order of the public works director.
   RULE 11: Authorized employees of the city shall have free access at proper
hours of the day to all parts of buildings in which wastewater service is
provided by the city for the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes
and fixtures and the manner in which wastewater is generated.
   RULE 12: The wastewater rates are charged against the property to which
service is provided and against the owner thereof, and if for any cause any
sums owing therefor become delinquent, the water service or wastewater service
or both may be terminated from the property and in no case reinstated until all
such delinquencies and current charges have been paid in full. No change of
ownership shall affect the application of this rule.
   RULE 13: All accounts for wastewater service are kept in the name of the
owner of the property and not in the name of any tenant, and the owner only, or
his legally authorized agent, is responsible for the payment of wastewater
service rates.
   RULE 14: On failure to comply with the rules and regulations established as
a condition to the use of the city's wastewater system, or to pay the
wastewater rates, or any charge or penalty imposed, in the time and manner
herein provided, the water or wastewater service or both may be terminated
until payment is made of the amounts due including current charges, together
with an amount to be set by resolution to cover the expense of interrupting and
reinstating each of the water or wastewater service.
   RULE 15: The following acts are prohibited:
   A.   To use the city wastewater system or permit it to be used for any other
purpose than that for which the party pays wastewater rates.
   B.   To permit water pipes or fixtures to remain in a leaky condition.
   C.   To allow water fixtures to be run when not in use for the purpose
intended without written permission of the director of public works.
   D.   To plug, damage, destroy or interfere with, or to attach to, or connect
with any part of the city's wastewater system without the permission of the
city.
   E.   To disturb or damage any pipe, machinery, tools or other property of
the public works department.
   F.   To throw any deleterious or dangerous matter or substances into the
city's wastewater system.
   G.   To deface or injure any buildings or other improvements of the city
used by the public works department for providing, maintaining and delivering
water or wastewater services.
   H.   To place any foreign objects or materials upon the grounds of the
city's wastewater treatment plant or such portion of the grounds and streets as
may be under its control.
   I.   To disturb or injure any structures, lawn, grass plot, flowers, vines,
bushes or trees belonging to the city at the wastewater treatment plant and
lift station sites.
   RULE 16: All wastewater service must be provided from public mains. Each
service shall be placed to the extent practical, perpendicular to the public
main, right of way or easement. All wastewater service lines must be placed at
a minimum depth of four feet (4') from the surface of the ground unless the
public works director grants an exception.
   RULE 17: Public mains must be located in public rights of way or easements
given to the city.
   RULE 18: It is the responsibility of the owner of the wastewater service to
disconnect said service upon abandonment or nonuse at the point of connection
with the city's main by a method acceptable to the director of public works.
Should the owner fail to satisfactorily disconnect such service, the public
works department may make such disconnection and charge the owner the actual
cost thereof.
   A street opening permit is required for permanently disconnecting wastewater
service lines at the wastewater main in the street right of way. A building and
safety division inspector shall inspect any wastewater service being abandoned.
The service line shall be disconnected, truncated and sealed within four feet
(4') of the wastewater main.
   RULE 19: No adjustment shall be made on estimated water and wastewater bills
on the estimated cycle. Rather, any such adjustment must be made only on the
regular reading cycle after the meter is read by city approved city meter
readers.
   RULE 20: Any unpaid wastewater bill that is more than thirty (30) days past
due must have interest assessed against it at the rate of 1.5% per month. (Ord.
2925, 12-3-2001)
6-3-7: WASTEWATER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT FEE:
   A.   Computation Of Fee: Any party desiring to connect to the city
wastewater system is subject to a wastewater systems development fee (SDF).
(Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   The base systems development fee will be set by the commission by resolution
and is the SDF associated with installation of a three-fourths inch (3/4")
water meter. The fee must be paid in full by the party seeking a wastewater
connection before issuance of the building permit.
   B.   Water Service Upgrade: Whenever a customer requests an upgrade in water
service that necessitates the installation of a larger meter, said customer
shall pay to the city an incremental wastewater system development fee. The
incremental wastewater system development fee is computed by subtracting the
smaller meter's system development fee from that of the larger meter's. The fee
is due and payable at the time application is made for the upgraded service. No
refund shall be made to any water user who decreases the water meter size.
   C.   Credit For Excess Capacity: When an applicant is required to pay for
wastewater improvements that are extra capacity general benefit facilities
(defined in subsection E of this section), the applicant may request that the
cost for the extra capacity paid by the applicant become a credit against the
wastewater system development fee for properties of the applicant served by
installed wastewater improvements. The director of public works is to determine
the amount of the recommended credit based upon the cost of the approved extra
capacity general benefit facilities. The city commission may then, by
resolution, grant credit to the applicant to be used toward wastewater system
development fees.
   D.   Relationship To Other Fees: The wastewater system development fees
established herein are paid to the city in addition to any other wastewater
fees, rentals or charges adopted by the city commission pursuant to other
ordinances or resolutions.
   E.   Use Of Fees: All funds received in payment of wastewater system
development fees shall be deposited in a segregated account. The use of said
funds, and any interest earned thereon, shall be for expansion of general
benefit wastewater facilities and for the retirement of bonds sold for such
purposes. "General benefit wastewater facilities" are defined as wastewater
treatment facilities, wastewater pumping and lift stations, and wastewater
collection and outfall lines. Expenditures of these funds may be recommended by
the director of public works and authorized by the city commission by passage
of a resolution. (Ord. 2925, 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 4
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1:   Purpose
6-4-2:   Authority
6-4-3:   Application Of Chapter
6-4-4:   Definitions
6-4-5:   Prohibitions
6-4-6:   Industrial Users
6-4-7:   Preemption By State Or Federal Standards Unless City Standards More
Stringent
6-4-8:   Dilution Of Discharge
6-4-9:   Accidental Discharge
6-4-10:   Sand And Grease Traps
6-4-11:   Pretreatment Of Industrial Wastewaters
6-4-12:   Special Agreements And Contracts
6-4-13:   Wastewater Classification Survey
6-4-14:   Industrial Discharge Permit
6-4-15:   Monitoring Facilities
6-4-16:   Sampling And Analysis
6-4-17:   Reporting Requirements
6-4-18:   Hauled Waste
6-4-19:   Noncompliance
6-4-20:   Immediate Enforcement; Suspension And Revocation Of Permit
6-4-21:   Civil Penalty
6-4-22:   Criminal Penalty
6-4-23:   Legal And Equitable Remedies
6-4-24:   Affirmative Defense Of Upset
6-4-25:   Excess User Charge
6-4-26:   Wastewater Classification Survey Filing Fee And Industrial Discharge
Permit Fees
6-4-27:   Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
discharges into the city wastewater collection and treatment system and enables
the city to comply with all applicable federal and state laws. This chapter is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the
city.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are to:
      1.   Provide for and promote the general health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens residing within the city and downstream water users;
      2.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      3.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the system, including interference with its use
or disposal of sludge;
      4.   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludge from the system; and
      5.   Provide for fees for the equitable distribution of cost of the POTW
among users. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   This chapter authorizes the issuance of industrial user discharge
permits, provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities,
establishes administrative review procedures, requires user reporting, provides
for identifying specific discharge quality parameters and provides for setting
fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program
established herein.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the department shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-3: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this chapter apply to all users of the city POTW, including
those located outside the city. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   ABBREVIATIONS: The following abbreviations have the following meanings:
      BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand.
      C: Degrees Celsius.
      CFR: Code of federal regulations.
      COD: Chemical oxygen demand.
      EPA: United States environmental protection agency.
      l: Liter.
      lbs: Pounds.
      LEL: Lower explosive limit.
      mg: Milligrams.
      MNPDES: Montana national pollutant discharge elimination system or nation
Montana pollutant discharge elimination system.
      PCB: Polychlorinated biphenyl.
      POTW: Publicly owned treatment works.
      RCRA: The resource conservation and recovery act.
      TOC: Total organic carbon.
      TSS: Total suspended solids.
   ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The appropriate EPA regional administrator.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: Either a principal executive
officer of at least the level of vice president, if the industrial user is a
corporation; a general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, or a duly authorized representative, if such
representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from
which any direct or indirect discharge originates.
   AVERAGE STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Water containing wastes in amounts less than or
equal to three hundred twenty five milligrams per liter (325 mg/l) BOD and
three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) TSS.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP): A schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance and operation procedures, and other management practices
to implement the prohibitions of this chapter. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c)
or the act (33 USC section 1317) that apply to a specific category of
industrial users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-
471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The measure of the same oxygen equivalent to
the portion of organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant under laboratory procedures, expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A representative flow proportioned or time proportioned
sample collection within a twenty four (24) hour period composed of a minimum
of six (6) individual samples collected at equally spaced intervals and
combined according to flow or time.
   COOLING WATER: Water to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DEPARTMENT: Department of public works.
   DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into POTW from any nondomestic
source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act.
   DISCHARGER: Any person who discharges or causes the discharge of wastewater
to the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTES: Liquid wastes: a) from the noncommercial preparation,
cooking, and handling of food, or b) containing only human excrement and
similar matter from the sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial
buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. environmental protection
agency, or where appropriate, the administrator or other duly authorized
official of the agency.
   EXCESS USER CHARGE: The rate system used to charge significant industrial
users whose sewage strength is more than fifty percent (50%) higher than
average strength sewage.
   FLOW: Volume of wastewater.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the commercial handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE: A sample taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis with no
regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of time.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants into the POTW from a nondomestic source regulated under section 307
(b), or (c) or (d) of the act (including hauled wastes).
   INDUSTRIAL: Of or pertaining to industry, manufacturing, commerce, trade, or
business, as distinguished from domestic or residential.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user that discharges wastewater other than domestic
wastes from industrial or commercial processes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Liquid or solid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business activities producing nondomestic or nonresidential
wastewater as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document issued to an industrial
user by the city in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE: A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      A. Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations,
or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
      B. Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES
permit or of the prevention of wastewater sludge use or disposal in compliance
with federal law.
   LOCAL LIMIT: A technically based numeric pollutant limitation developed by
the city to protect against pass-through, interference, receiving water quality
impacts and worker health and safety problems. Local limits will be developed
in accordance with EPA's region VIII technically based local limits development
strategy, adopted by the city and considered as pretreatment standards under
the act.
   MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTANA POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (MPDES) PERMIT: A permit
issued under the Montana pollutant discharge elimination system for discharge
of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the state of Montana pursuant to the
act.
   NEW SOURCE: A. A building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act that will be applicable to such source if standards
are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, and:
      1. The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a
site where no other source is located;
       2. The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
        3. The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation is substantially independent of an existing
source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially
independent, factors to be considered are the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and is engaged in the same general type
of activity as the existing source.
   B. Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in
a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a
new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subsections A2 and A3 of this definition, but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
   C. Construction of a new source has commenced if the owner or operator has:
        1. Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on site
construction program, any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment or significant site preparation work, including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
      2. Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation.
   PASS-THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into the
receiving stream in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, are a cause of or
significantly contribute to a violation of any requirements contained in the
city MPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation).
   pH: The intensity of acid or base condition of the solution expressed as the
logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT: Any dredged soil, solids, incinerator residue, garbage, sewage,
sewage sludge, biological waste or materials, biological nutrient, chemical
wastes, radioactive material, toxic substance, heat, malodorous substance,
wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, slurry, untreatable waste, medical
waste, or industrial, commercial, domestic or agricultural waste discharged
into or with water.
   PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of the pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW, which may
be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes or other means not
including dilution. Appropriate pretreatment technology includes control
equipment, such as equalization tanks or facilities, for protection against
surges of slug loadings that might interfere with or otherwise be incompatible
with the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PRIORITY POLLUTANTS: Any of the toxic compounds designated by the EPA,
pursuant to 307(a) of the act, that can reasonably be expected in the
discharges from industries.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS: Any devices, facilities, structures,
equipment, or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of the
transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of wastewaters
from within or without the city and includes land or sites that may be acquired
or used, that will be an integral part of the treatment process, or that is
used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   RECEIVING WATERS: Lakes, rivers, streams, or other watercourses that receive
treated or untreated wastewater.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any domestic wastewater from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SERVICE LINE PRIVATE OR WASTEWATER LINE: A wastewater line commencing at and
collecting wastewater from a structure or facility and intended for discharging
wastewater into the city POTW.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property and damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SIGNIFICANT CHANGE: An increase or decrease in wastewater volume,
concentration of materials or substance, or changes in types of wastes.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user that satisfies any of the
following criteria:
   A.   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
   B.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of
process wastewater to the POTW;
   C.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the POTW's average dry weather hydraulic or organic treatment capacity;
or
   D.   Is designated as having a reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW or violating any of the general or specific prohibitions.
   SLUG OR SLUG LOAD: Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or noncustomary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-
through, or in any other way violate this chapter, local limits, or NPDES
permit conditions.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC): A classification pursuant to the
most recent edition of the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual" issued
by the executive office of the president - office of management and budget.
   STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of normal
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended matter, expressed in
milligrams per liter, that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
wastewater or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering in
   accordance with procedures set forth in EPA "Methods For Chemical Analysis
Of Water And Wastes".
   WASTEWATER: The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   WASTEWATER CLASSIFICATION SURVEY: The questionnaire that each industrial
user must complete and have on file with the department. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010;
amd. Ord. 3265, 11-18-2019)
6-4-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person may contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which cause pass- through or
interference.
   B.   No user shall discharge any sewage or other polluted waters from any
premises within the city into or upon any public highway, land, public place,
stream, watercourse, or into any cesspool, storm or private wastewater, or
natural water outlet, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with provisions of applicable federal, state and local laws.
   C.   No person may discharge into the POTW the following substances or any
amounts of substances exceeding the following limits:
      1.   Any liquids, solids, or gases that, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive readings on any explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the POTW, be more than five percent (5%),
nor any single reading exceed ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit
(LEL) of the meter. Wastewaters discharged into a POTW may not have a
flashpoint lower than sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) (140°F), as determined by
city approved analytical methods. Prohibited materials include, without
limitation, gasoline fuel, oils, mineral oil, lubricating oil, benzene,
naphtha, ethers, carbides, perchlorates, and xylene;
      2.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or greater than 10.5, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, operations, or personnel of the POTW;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances that may obstruct the flow or interfere
with the operation of the POTW, including, without limitation, cinders, sand,
mud, cement, plaster, lime slurry or sludge, stone or marble dust, asphalt
residues, tar, wax, paraffin, paint, chemical sludges or residues, metals,
glass, plastics, wood shavings, wastepaper, paunch manure, excessive manure,
hair and fleshings, blood, intestinal contents, animal hooves or toenails,
bones, hog bristles, hides or parts thereof, excessive amounts of animal fat or
flesh or particles of said materials larger than will pass through a one-fourth
inch (1/4") screen, poultry entrails, heads, feet, or feathers, food processing
bulk solids, or garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to a diameter of
less than one-half inch (1/2");
      4.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, COD, and
TOC) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration that
will cause interference or pass-through; or that exceeds limitations set forth
in a national categorical pretreatment standard;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature that will cause the temperature of
the wastewater plant influent to exceed forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F) or
will cause interference;
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause pass-through or interference;
      7.   Any stormwaters, including, but not limited to, water drainage from
ground surface, roof leaders, catch basins, or any other source, subsurface
drainage or groundwater, water from underground drains, sump discharges,
natural springs, water accumulated in excavations, or any other drainage
associated with construction;
      8.   Any wastewater containing radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-
life or concentration that exceeds provisions established by the city in
compliance with state or federal regulations;
      9.   Any wastewater containing free, floating, or insoluble oil or oil or
grease that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between
zero degrees (0°) and sixty five degrees Celsius (65°C) (32° – 150°F). In no
case may wastewater contain concentration of oils, fats or grease exceeding one
hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) as determined by city approved
analytical methods;
      10.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the
treatment process, including, without limitation, dye wastes, paint pigments
and vegetable tanning solutions;
      11.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      12.   Any wastewater containing BOD, suspended solids, or total solids of
such character or quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the wastewater treatment plant; but a user may be
permitted by specific, written agreement with the city to discharge said
materials and pay for costs incurred in the treatment of such wastes;
      13.   Any substance that may cause effluent or any other product of the
wastewater treatment plant, such as sludges, scums, and residues, to be
unsuitable for reclamation and reuse. In no case may a substance discharged
into the POTW cause the wastewater treatment plant to fail to comply with MPDES
permit requirements, receiving water quality standards, or sludge use and
disposal criteria;
      14.   Any trucked or hauled waste, except as permitted by this chapter.
   D.   No person may discharge any material or substance not specifically
mentioned in this section that in itself is corrosive, irritating, or noxious
to human beings and animals, or that by interaction with other water or waste
in the POTW could produce undesirable effects or create any other condition
deleterious to structures, treatment processes, and quality of receiving
stream. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010; amd. Ord. 3265, 11-18-2019)
6-4-6: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   Industrial users shall comply with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   B.   The city has the authority to, and will comply with, the public
participation requirements of 40 CFR part 25 in the enforcement of national
pretreatment standards. This will include at least annual public notification,
in the largest daily newspaper published in the city, of industrial users
which, at any time during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment requirements.
   C.   Significant industrial users shall submit to the city, at least once
every six (6) months (on dates specified by the city), a description of the
nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required to be reported by
the city. More frequent sampling and reporting may be required by the city
based on applicable federal requirements and/or the nature of wastes
discharged. These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
accordance with the techniques described in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments
thereto. The sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of the
significant industrial user. Where the city's wastewater treatment facility
itself collects all the information for the report, the significant industrial
user will not be required to submit a report.
   D.   The city will provide each industrial user with a copy of 40 CFR 403.
Each industrial user will comply with the provisions provided for in the
supplied document.
   E.   An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of subsections F and G of this section.
   F.   Notice of bypass must be given by industrial user as follows:
      1.   An industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the department, if possible at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass.
      2.   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the department within
twenty four (24) hours of the time the industrial user becomes aware of the
bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the
time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission
shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause, the duration of the
bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been
corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or
planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the bypass. The
department may waive the written report on a case by case basis if the oral
report has been received within twenty four (24) hours.
   G.   Bypass is prohibited, except when:
      1.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
      2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
      3.   The industrial user submitted notices as required under subsection
F2 of this section.
   H.   The department may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the department determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection G of this section. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-7: PREEMPTION BY STATE OR FEDERAL STANDARDS UNLESS CITY STANDARDS MORE
STRINGENT:
   A.   Whenever the federal government issues categorical pretreatment
standards for an industrial category that are more stringent than the standards
prescribed by this chapter, such federal standards supersede the standards
prescribed by this chapter.
   B.   The city reserves the right to establish discharge limitations more
stringent than federal and state requirements, or limitations contained herein,
and may develop BMPs to implement this chapter.
   C.   Best management practices are local limits and pretreatment standards
for the purposes of this chapter and section 307(d) of the act. (Ord. 3124, 6-
21-2010; amd. Ord. 3265, 11-18-2019)
6-4-8: DILUTION OF DISCHARGE:
An industrial user may not increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with any applicable limitations. The
department, in consultation with the user, may allow wastewater from a
regulated process to be mixed in an equalization facility with unregulated
wastewater or wastewater from another regulated process. The effluent from the
equalization facility must meet an adjusted pretreatment limit as determined by
the department and calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6. (Ord. 3124, 6-
21-2010)
6-4-9: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE:
   A.   Each industrial user shall provide to the department written procedures
for handling accidental discharges to the city POTW of materials or substances
regulated by this chapter. In addition, an industrial user shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Each industrial user shall permanently post a spill prevention and
notification procedure in compliance with this section on its bulletin board
and prominently display the procedure at each area of possible accidental
discharge.
      2.   In the case of an accidental discharge, the industrial user shall
notify immediately by telephone the superintendent or supervisor at the
wastewater treatment plant and report the location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration, volume, and corrective actions. In addition to taking any other
remedies for a failure to report accidental discharges, the department may
revoke any industrial user's discharge permit issued to the user.
      3.   Within five (5) working days following an accidental discharge, the
industrial user shall submit to the department a detailed written report
describing the cause of discharge and measures to be taken by the industrial
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification does not relieve
the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage, or liability that may be
incurred from damage to the POTW or quality of receiving stream, or any other
damage to persons or property. Nor does such notification relieve the
industrial user from any fines, civil penalties, or other liability that may be
imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
   B.   The department may require installation, operation, and maintenance of
facilities to prevent accidental discharge of such materials or substances, at
the user's expense.
   C.   The city's authorized personnel have the authority to evaluate, at
least once every two (2) years, whether each significant industrial user needs
a plan to control slug loads. The results of such activities shall be available
to the city upon request. If the city determines that a slug load control plan
is needed, the plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following elements:
      1.   A description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   A description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the city of slug loads,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under 40 CFR 403.5(b),
with procedures for follow up written notification within five (5) days; and
      4.   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
runoff, worker training, building of containment structures for equipment, and
measures for containing toxic materials, and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-10: SAND AND GREASE TRAPS:
No person operating a filling station, garage, or similar place having wash or
grease racks shall discharge to the POTW unless such place is provided with a
sand and grease trap of a size and construction as required by the current
edition of the uniform plumbing code or plumbing regulations in effect at the
time. No person operating a restaurant or food preparation establishment that
discharges wastewater containing greater than one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) of oil and grease or that has a recurring problem with grease
buildup or blockage of wastewater lines shall fail to install an adequate
grease trap. All sand and grease traps shall be properly maintained and
serviced at the owner's expense. Records of maintenance and service shall be
made available to the city upon request by the department. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-
2010)
6-4-11: PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS:
   A.   An industrial wastewater pretreatment system or device may be required
by the department to treat industrial flows prior to discharge to the POTW when
it is necessary to restrict or prevent the discharge to the POTW of certain
waste constituents, to distribute more equally over a longer time period any
peak discharges of industrial wastewaters or to accomplish any pretreatment
result required by the department. Any pretreatment facilities required by the
department must be provided and maintained at the industrial wastewater
discharger's expense. Pretreatment systems or devices may not be installed or
operated without the prior approval of the department. Approval does not
absolve the industrial discharger of the responsibility to meet industrial
effluent limitations required by the city. If inspection of pretreatment
systems and devices by authorized personnel of the city reveals such systems
are not installed or operating in conformance with the plans and procedures
submitted to the city, or are not operating in compliance with the effluent
limitations required by the city, the industrial discharger shall make those
modifications necessary to meet city requirements. In special cases, the
department may require construction of wastewater discharge lines by the
discharger to convey certain industrial wastes to a specific wastewater
conveyance. All pretreatment systems judged by the department to require
engineering design shall have plans prepared and signed by an engineer of
suitable discipline licensed by the state of Montana. Normally, a gravity
separation interceptor, equalizing tank, neutralization chamber and control
manhole or other monitoring facility will be required respectively to remove
prohibited settleable and floatable solids, to equalize wastewater streams
varying greatly in quantity or quality to neutralize low or high pH flows and
to facilitate inspection, flow measurement and sampling. Floor drains from
commercial or manufacturing buildings, warehouses or multiuse structures may
not discharge directly to the POTW, and must first discharge to a gravity
separation interceptor.
   B.   The discharge of any pollutants into the POTW is subject to guidelines
set forth in the city's local limits as established by the department and
adopted by the city commission through resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 3124, 6-
21-2010)
6-4-12: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting special written agreements between the city and any industrial user
allowing industrial waste of unusual strength or character to be admitted to
the POTW, provided the user compensates the city for any additional costs of
treatment.
   B.   The department may execute an agreement to exceed pollutants
limitations if the department finds that:
      1.   The industrial user is making reasonable progress toward eliminating
the violation;
      2.   Compliance with the specific pollutant limitation during a time
period agreed upon for installation of proper pretreatment equipment would
impose undue hardship; and
      3.   Acceptance of the discharge does not adversely affect the POTW or
cause violation of the city's MPDES discharge permit and applicable federal and
state laws, or national categorical pretreatment standards. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-
2010)
6-4-13: WASTEWATER CLASSIFICATION SURVEY:
   A.   All industrial users shall pay the filing fee prescribed by this
chapter and complete and file with the department a wastewater classification
survey containing the following information prior to discharge into the POTW:
name and facility address; type of services rendered and products produced;
principal raw materials and catalysts used; plant operational characteristics;
water use information; wastewater discharge information; wastewater generation;
wastewater quantities and constituents; wastewater pretreatment; and
nondischarge wastes and their disposal.
   B.   All industrial users shall promptly notify the department, at least two
(2) days in advance, to update the wastewater classification survey on file
with the department whenever significant changes are made in the wastewater
discharge. Significant changes include, without limitation, an increase or
decrease in wastewater volume, concentration of materials or substances, or
changes in types of wastes that will last for a period exceeding normal
wastewater production variations. If the normal quantity or quality of the
discharge has changed, the user shall so notify the department by letter. The
department may request a new submittal of the wastewater classification survey
as deemed necessary. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-14: INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT:
   A.   A significant industrial user shall obtain an industrial wastewater
discharge permit.
   B.   Existing industrial users shall apply for an industrial wastewater
discharge permit within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this
chapter and proposed new industrial users shall apply at least ninety (90) days
prior to discharging into the POTW.
   C.   The department will evaluate the data furnished by the applicant and
may require additional information. Within ninety (90) days of receipt of a
complete application, the department will determine whether an industrial
wastewater discharge permit should be issued. The department may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application.
   D.   Industrial wastewater permits are subject to all provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain without limitation, the following:
      1.   Effluent limits, including BMPs, based on applicable pretreatment
standards, categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and state and local
law;
      2.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      3.   Requirements to control slug loads;
      4.   Schedules for installation of pretreatment equipment to bring
discharge into compliance with applicable regulations;
      5.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      6.   Specifications for monitoring programs that include sampling
locations; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedules;
      7.   Requirements for submission of technical reports, discharge reports,
and compliance progress reports;
      8.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city access thereto
(this is also required of all noncategorical users, and user must comply with
40 CFR 403.12(l));
      9.   Requirements for notification of slug loads;
      10.   Requirements for notification of the city of the new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any change in character of the wastewater
constituents or average volume being introduced into the POTW, including
changes that affect potential for slug loads;
      11.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements;
      12.   A statement that the industrial user permit is nontransferable
unless specifically authorized by the city;
      13.   Requirements to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW that reasonably appear to present an
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, endangers the
environment, or which threatens to interfere with the POTW;
      14.   Other conditions deemed reasonably necessary by the department to
prevent pass-through or interference, protect the quality of the water body
receiving the treatment plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety,
facilitate sludge management and disposal, and protect against damage to the
POTW.
   E.   The department may issue industrial discharge permits for a specified
time period not to exceed five (5) years. The industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the
user's existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject
to modification by the department during the term of the permit if limitations
or requirements are modified, if necessary to meet requirements of the city's
MPDES discharge permit, or if there is another good cause. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
   F.   An applicant for a permit shall pay the fees prescribed by this
chapter.
   G.   A wastewater discharge permit may not be sold, traded, assigned,
transferred, or sublet. Any new industrial user must obtain a wastewater
discharge permit regardless of whether a permit previously existed for the same
premises. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-15: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   Whenever the department finds it necessary, an industrial user shall
provide and operate, at its expense, monitoring equipment and facilities
sufficient to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the private
wastewater or internal drainage system.
   B.   The monitoring facility shall normally be situated outside of the
building on the user's premises. All domestic wastewaters from uses such as
restrooms, showers, and drinking fountains, must be kept separate from all
industrial wastewaters until the industrial wastewaters have passed through a
monitoring facility. If the industrial user's service line ties into an
existing city manhole and such manhole allows for safe sampling and isolation
of the industrial user's discharge, the department may allow said manhole to
serve as the industrial user's monitoring facility, but may require that the
industrial user provide and operate an alternate monitoring facility if the
department finds it is necessary.
   C.   Whenever required by the department, any industrial or significant
industrial user or person discharging prohibited substances or specific
pollutants serviced by a private wastewater disposal system carrying
nonresidential wastewater, shall install a monitoring facility for each
separate discharge that the department finds necessary to monitor. Each
separate monitoring facility shall meet requirements set forth by the
department with safe and independent access for city personnel at all times.
   D.   There must be ample room in or near such monitoring manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
industrial user shall maintain the facility it owns and operates and all
sampling and measuring equipment at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the industrial user's expense.
   E.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the industrial user
shall construct the sampling and monitoring equipment and facilities in
accordance with monitoring requirements and all applicable local construction
standards and specifications within sixty (60) days following written
notification by the department.
   F.   The city has the authority to enter and inspect, at least once a year,
the facilities of all industrial users. The city's authorized personnel have
the right of entry to, upon or through any premises in which an effluent source
is located or in which records required to be maintained by the permittee are
located and, at all reasonable times, have access to and copy any records,
inspect any monitoring equipment or methods required of the permittee, and
sample any effluents which the owner or operator of such source is generating.
   G.   The city has the authority to randomly sample and analyze the effluent
from industrial users, conduct surveillance activities in order to identify,
independently of information supplied by the industrial users, occasional and
continuing noncompliance with pretreatment standards, and inspect and sample
the effluent from each industrial user at least once a year. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-
2010)
6-4-16: SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS:
   A.   All industrial users shall obtain the department's approval for all
sampling and measuring equipment prior to its installation or use. All
measuring, tests, and analyses and all sampling shall be at the expense of the
industrial user.
   B.   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   C.   Except as indicated below, an industrial user must collect wastewater
samples using twenty four (24) hour flow proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the department. Where time proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the department the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a twenty four (24) hour period may be
composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and
sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for
volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the
laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the department, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   D.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   E.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety (90)
day compliance reports required by this chapter, a minimum of four (4) grab
samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide
and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling
data do not exist; for facilities where historical sampling data are available,
the department may authorize a lower minimum. For periodic compliance reports
and for industrial users that are not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance by with applicable pretreatment
standards.
   F.   If a sample indicates a violation the industrial user must repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the
department within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation. (Ord.
3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-17: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
each industrial user or new source or sources that become an industrial user
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard, are required to submit to the department information required by the
department as guided by 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (c).
   B.   All industrial users that have permits or that discharge prohibited
substances or specific pollutants that may cause a significant impact on the
POTW shall submit to the department periodic compliance reports during the
months of June and December or the months required by the permit, a report
containing information and data required by the permit, signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user, and certified by a qualified
professional.
   C.   If additional pretreatment or operations and maintenance will be
required to meet pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
industrial user will provide additional pretreatment or operations and
maintenance must be provided. The completion date in this schedule may not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. A compliance schedule must meet the requirements of the city as
guided by 40 CFR 403.12(c).
   D.   If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirements of this
section monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location
more frequently than required by the permit conditions, the results of that
monitoring must be included in the report.
   E.   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
industrial user subject to the pretreatment standards and requirements shall
submit a report to the department containing the information described in this
section. For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the department in accordance with this chapter, this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the industrial user's long term
production rate. For all other industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the industrial user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period.
   F.   Each user shall notify the department of any significant changes to the
industrial user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality,
or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30) days before the change. The
department may require the industrial user to submit information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under this chapter. The department
may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit general permit modify an
existing wastewater discharge permit in response to changed conditions or
anticipated changed conditions.
   G.   All categorical and noncategorical industrial users must notify the
POTW immediately of all discharges that could cause problems to the POTW,
including any slug loadings, by the industrial user.
   H.   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation the
industrial user must notify the department within twenty four (24) hours of
becoming aware of the violation. A resample and analysis must be completed in
accordance with subsection
6-4-16F of this chapter.
   I.   Industrial users must notify the department, the EPA, and state
hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance, which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste as set
forth in 40 CFR part 261. The written notification shall contain the name of
the hazardous substance, the EPA waste number, and the type of discharge. If
the industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of a
hazardous substance per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also
contain an identification of the hazardous constituents in the wastewater
expected to be discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the wastewater expected to be discharged during the
following twelve (12) months. All notifications shall take place no later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge commences. Notification under
this section only needs to be submitted once for each hazardous substance
discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions shall be submitted
according to the duty to report changed conditions under this chapter.
   J.   The reports required by this section shall include the following
certification statement signed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   K.   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter must
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the industrial user independent of such requirements,
and documentation required by BMPs established under this chapter. Records must
include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of
the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who
performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records must remain available for a period of
at least three (3) years. This period is automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the industrial user or the city, or where
the industrial user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period
by the department.
   L.   Any industrial user submitting information to the city pursuant to this
chapter may claim it to be confidential if it demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the department that release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as the user's trade
secrets. A claim of confidentiality is governed by the following conditions:
      1.   The user must assert such claim at the time of submission by
stamping the words "confidential business information" on each page containing
such information. If no such claim is made at the time of submission, the city
may make information available to the public without further notice.
      2.   The department may not publicly disclose approved confidential
information, except as required by law. Confidential information may be used by
the city, or any federal or state agency in judicial review or enforcement
proceedings involving the user furnishing the information.
   M.   No person may make any false statement, representation, or
certification, knowing it to be false, in any application, record, plan, data,
or document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter.
   N.   No person may falsify, tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter.
   O.   The department has access to records and wastewater testing facilities
during normal working hours of the installation, and may copy said records
whenever necessary. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-18: HAULED WASTE:
   A.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations and
times designated by the department. Septic tank waste may not violate this
chapter or any other requirements established by the city. The department may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
   B.   Industrial waste may not be discharged into the POTW unless an
individual wastewater permit is obtained from the department. The discharge of
hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for every
load. This form must include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected constituents, and
whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-19: NONCOMPLIANCE:
Enforcement of noncompliance will follow the guidelines set forth in the city
of Helena's enforcement response plan as established by the department and
adopted by the city commission. An industrial user is in significant
noncompliance if its violation meets one or more of the following criteria:
   A.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined herein as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment
standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits;
   B.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined herein as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of all the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS,
fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement (daily
maximum, longer term average, instantaneous limits, or narrative standard) that
the city determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass- through (including endangering the health of city
personnel or the general public);
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the city's
wastewater treatment facility's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or
prevent such discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism of
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
   H.   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of BMPs, that the city determines will adversely affect the operation
or implementation of the local pretreatment program. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-20: IMMEDIATE ENFORCEMENT; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The department may suspend or revoke an industrial discharge permit and
terminate the liquid or water carried waste service if the permittee:
      1.   Violates any condition stated in the permit or provision of this
code;
      2.   Fails to report an accidental discharge of a toxic substance;
      3.   Increases the use of process water or attempts to dilute the
discharge for the sole purpose of achieving compliance with any limitations;
      4.   Falsifies any report of the wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      5.   Tampers with, disrupts, or damages city monitoring and sampling
equipment or facilities;
      6.   Refuses reasonable access to the industrial user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
      7.   Fails to pay fees or charges.
   B.   Whenever the department finds that any industrial user has violated or
is violating any provisions of this chapter, the department may serve upon such
person a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time, not to exceed forty five (45) days, for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The user may request a meeting with the department to
discuss the violation or the correction schedule.
   C.   If the department finds a violation of one of the grounds in subsection
A of this section or any other ground for suspension or revocation as provided
in this code, the department may revoke the license for the remainder of its
term or suspend it for any shorter period, after considering the severity of
the violation and whether it may be remedied by permittee.
   D.   Before conducting the hearing required by subsection E of this section,
the department may temporarily suspend a permit for up to twenty (20) days, if
the department determines that the suspension is necessary to prevent an
imminent danger to the public health, safety and welfare. The department may
include in the temporary suspension reasonable orders or conditions with which
the permittee shall comply to protect the public health and safety. Any breach
of such conditions or orders is an independent ground for revocation of the
permit.
   E.   Except for such emergency suspension authorized by subsection D of this
section, no such suspension or revocation shall be final until the permittee
has been given the opportunity for a hearing before the department to contest
the suspension or revocation. The decision of the department may be appealed to
the city manager by filing a written notice of appeal within five (5) days. The
notice of appeal must specify the basis for the appeal.
   F.   The department has the authority, after informal notice to the
discharge, to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any discharge of
pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to present an imminent
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The department also has the
authority after notice to the affected industrial users and an opportunity to
respond, to halt or prevent any discharge to the POTW which presents or may
present an endangerment to the environment or which threatens to interfere with
the operation of the POTW.
   G.   The industrial user shall pay all costs and expenses associated with
any such suspension and restoration of service. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010; amd.
Ord. 3265, 11-18-2019)
6-4-21: CIVIL PENALTY:
A violation of a provision of this chapter, an industrial user permit, or any
order issued hereunder is a municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty
of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation or if the
infraction is a repeat offense, a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each repeat violation. Each day on which a violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In
addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover, as a municipal
infraction, its costs for abatement or correction of the violation and such
other costs allowed by law. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-22: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter, an industrial user permit,
or any order issued hereunder is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per violation, or
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or both. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-23: LEGAL AND EQUITABLE REMEDIES:
If any user discharges into the city POTW in violation of this code, federal or
state regulations or any order of the city, the city may commence an action for
legal or equitable relief, including an action for recovery of damages and
costs incurred by the city for cleanup and mitigation and a petition in a court
of appropriate jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, and preliminary,
and permanent injunctions against the violation. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-24: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE OF UPSET:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
industrial user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused
by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset is an affirmative defense to an action brought for
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements of
subsection C of this section are met.
   C.   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset must demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
department within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset. If
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five (5) days of the oral notification:
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof.
   E.   Industrial users have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   F.   Industrial users must control production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility
is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-25: EXCESS USER CHARGE:
   A.   Industrial users required to obtain an industrial discharge permit and
discharging wastes in excess of average strength wastewater shall pay excess
user charges in lieu of regular wastewater utility fees, as prescribed by
chapter 3, "Wastewater Regulations", of this title.
   B.   Sampling, analyses, and reporting requirements to determine the excess
user charge are a condition of the user's industrial discharge permit and must
be carried out in accordance with procedures contained in this chapter.
   C.   On discharges of wastewater of consistent strength, the department may
compute a standard excess user charge based on average strength of the user's
discharge. The industrial user shall be required to sample, analyze, and report
discharge strengths on a periodic basis to ensure consistency of sewage
strength. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-26: WASTEWATER CLASSIFICATION SURVEY FILING FEE AND INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE
PERMIT FEES:
Applicants for an industrial discharge permit shall pay the permit fees as set
by resolution by the city commission. (Ord. 3124, 6-21-2010)
6-4-27: WASTEWATER FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND:
   A.   A reserve fund called the "wastewater facilities replacement fund" is
hereby established within the wastewater utility fund for the purpose of
providing sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories and appurtenances during the useful life (20 years) of
the city wastewater treatment facilities necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities are designed and constructed.
The reserve fund called the "wastewater facilities replacement fund"
established within the wastewater utility fund as an interest bearing account
shall be funded by the deposit of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
per year obtained from the wastewater utility fund at the end of each fiscal
year.
   B.   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to the wastewater treatment services provided by the city. (Ord.
3124, 6-21-2010)
CHAPTER 5
WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE AREAS
SECTION:
6-5-1:   Intent And Purpose
6-5-2:   Adoption Of Service Area
6-5-3:   Prerequisite To Application
6-5-4:   Requirements
6-5-5:   Enlargement Application
6-5-6:   Public Hearing
6-5-7:   City Commission Action
6-5-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Adopt an official water service area which specifically designates that
particular territory which is to be served with water service from the water
supply system;
   B.   Adopt an official wastewater service area which specifically designates
that particular territory which is to be served with wastewater service from
the wastewater system;
   C.   Provide for an orderly, planned and cost effective method of enlarging
the service area so adopted;
   D.   Promote annexation to the corporate city limits of all properties to be
served from the water supply system and the wastewater system;
   E.   Ensure public participation and comment in the decision making process
with respect to all enlargements of the service areas. (Ord. 2400, 4-20-1986)
6-5-2: ADOPTION OF SERVICE AREA:
The official water or wastewater service area for the city is that area of the
city within the boundaries of the city and currently served by city water and
sewer, any areas presently served outside the city and any subsequently
approved amendments thereto. A map depicting the water service area adopted
herein, and any enlargements that may be from time to time approved by the city
commission, shall be made available at all times for public inspection during
regular working hours at the city engineering office, 316 North Park Avenue,
Helena, Montana. A map depicting the wastewater service area shall be developed
and maintained in the same manner. (Ord. 2400, 4-20-1986)
6-5-3: PREREQUISITE TO APPLICATION:
   A.   The following conditions shall be met prior to making application for
enlargement of a service area:
      1.   The property at the time the application is filed shall be entirely
within the city's growth policy and facilities planning area.
      2.   Applicant shall complete annexation requirements, create an
annexation district, or defer annexation pursuant to an agreement.
   B.   Should a state or federal governmental entity, as a condition of
providing funds or grants, require that service be extended to other areas
outside the scope of this section, the city commission may, upon receipt of
application for waiver and upon a proper showing, waive the requirements of
this section. (Ord. 3055, 5-8-2006)
6-5-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All properties to be included within the service areas shall be
annexed, included in an annexation district, or contained in an agreement for
future annexation. Further, whenever possible, and subject to conditions for
annexation imposed by the city commission, the property being considered for
inclusion in the service areas shall be annexed to the city:
      1.   If the property is contiguous to the boundaries of the service areas
for both water and wastewater; or
      2.   When annexation is in the best interests of the city.
   B.   Prior to submission of an application for service area enlargement for
property not within the boundaries of the city, a prospective applicant shall
first request that the city annex the property involved or include the property
in an annexation district, or enter into an agreement for the deferral of
annexation, or a combination of the foregoing as alternative requests. If the
city manager considers the request to be in the best interest of the city, the
manager shall submit it to the city commission for consideration. If the city
commission determines that annexation is not in the best interest of the city
at that time, it may consider alternative requests of the applicant for the
creation of an annexation district or the deferral of annexation pursuant to an
agreement. Any agreements or applications for waivers must be in legal form as
approved by the city attorney; be recorded with the county clerk and recorder
of Lewis and Clark County, Montana; run with the land; and be signed by owners
of the land area and by the landowners of the area to be considered for
inclusion in the water or wastewater service area.
   C.   An agreement for deferral of annexation and conditions for annexation
will constitute a mutual agreement for provision of services as required by law
and must include, at a minimum, provisions for the following items:
      1.   Consent to and waiver of protest of annexation when elected by the
city;
      2.   Restrictions or conditions on future subdivision of the property or
expanded development of property that increases demand for city services;
      3.   Prezoning of property and compliance with zoning regulations
applicable to prezoning designation;
      4.   Compliance with city building and fire codes and, if in the best
interest of the city, plan approval, payment of fees, and submission to
inspection of improvements;
      5.   Financial responsibility, including consent to and waiver of protest
of creation of special improvement districts, for the installation,
construction and reconstruction of infrastructure to city standards, including,
but not limited to, water mains and hydrants, sewer mains and lift stations,
storm water facilities, streets, curbs and gutters, and sidewalks;
      6.   Compliance with any city code applicable to any service made
available through service area enlargement, including installation of and
access to approved meters;
      7.   Restrictions or mitigation conditions on uses of property that may
injure, damage, or degrade services provided;
      8.   Plan approval, construction oversight, final acceptance, easements,
and ownership by city of infrastructure installed for the city service being
provided;
      9.   Payment of applicable fees relating to the city service being
provided;
      10.   Legal and physical access provided to the property being served;
      11.   Upgrade and transfer to the city community served utility systems
and appropriate utility easements;
      12.   Use of city provided solid waste services as soon as legally
allowed;
      13.   Payment of any fees set by city commission for service area
enlargement and city services provided; and
      14.   Responsibility for outstanding indebtedness against the property
for rural improvement districts, fire districts, and other county established
districts.
   D.   An annexation district must be created as provided by law and the
agreement must consider those items contained in subsection C of this section,
that are legally allowed for creation of annexation districts.
   E.   The city manager shall cause written notice to be given to the
prospective applicant of the approval or denial of applicant's request for
annexation, creation of an annexation district, or deferral of annexation
pursuant to an agreement. The city manager shall also notify the prospective
applicant of the approval or denial of enlargement of the service area. If
approved, the applicant shall be notified when the requirements set forth in
this section have been satisfactorily completed and that the applicant is
authorized to proceed with the service area enlargement application. (Ord.
3055, 5-8-2006)
6-5-5: ENLARGEMENT APPLICATION:
Applications for water service area enlargements and for wastewater service
area enlargements shall be made on forms prescribed by the city manager and
shall be accompanied by all documentation requested by the city. (Ord. 2400, 4-
20-1986)
6-5-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
At the time of completion of annexation, the annexed territory shall
automatically be included in the service area and no further action is needed
on an application for service area enlargement. However, before officially
acting upon any application for enlargement of the service area into an
unannexed area, the city commission shall hold a public hearing thereon and
shall give public notice of hearing upon each such application. Notice shall be
given by publishing notice as set forth in section 7-1-4127, Montana Code
Annotated. Prior to the public hearing, the director of public works shall make
a recommendation to the city commission regarding said application. (Ord. 3055,
5-8-2006)
6-5-7: CITY COMMISSION ACTION:
The city commission shall approve, conditionally approve or deny an application
for enlargement of a service area into an unannexed area within thirty (30)
days after the date of the public hearing. If the application for enlargement
of the service area is made for an area within the then existing limits of the
city no public hearing shall be required. The Helena city commission shall
approve, conditionally approve or deny any such application for enlargement of
a service area into an area within the then existing city limits within thirty
(30) days of said application. The approval or conditional approval shall be in
force for the period of time set forth in the approval. A denial of an
application shall be in force for one year after the date of such denial. (Ord.
2400, 4-20-1986)
CHAPTER 6
STORMWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
6-6-1:   Title
6-6-2:   Purpose
6-6-3:   Definitions
6-6-4:   Applicability
6-6-5:   Stormwater Utility Service Area
6-6-6:   Responsibility For Administration
6-6-7:   Cooperation With The County
6-6-8:   Storm Drainage Master Plan
6-6-9:   Ultimate Responsibility
6-6-10:   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges
6-6-11:   Drainageway Protection
6-6-12:   Prohibition Of Illegal Connections
6-6-13:   Suspension Of MS4 Access
6-6-14:   Monitoring Of Discharges
6-6-15:   Development And Redevelopment Activity And Postconstruction
Stormwater Control
6-6-16:   Credit For Construction Of Storm Drainage Facilities
6-6-17:   Responsibility For Accepted Stormwater Facilities
6-6-18:   Responsibility For Private Storm Drainage Facilities
6-6-19:   Applicability To Governmental Entities
6-6-20:   Requirement To Use Best Management Practices
6-6-21:   Notification Of Spills
6-6-22:   Management Of Municipal Separate Stormwater System
6-6-23:   Violations And Civil Enforcement
6-6-24:   Violations And Criminal Enforcement
6-6-25:   Injunctive Relief
6-6-26:   Remedies Not Exclusive
6-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the HELENA STORMWATER CONTROL CHAPTER. (Ord. 3120,
12-21-2009)
6-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city of Helena by protecting water quality
through the regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the stormwater drainage
system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law.
This chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the Montana pollutant discharge elimination system (MPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system from stormwater discharges by any user.
   B.   To prohibit illegal connections to and discharges into the municipal
separate storm sewer system.
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   D.   To establish legal authority to develop, implement, and enforce a
program to address stormwater runoff from new development and redevelopment
projects. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Development and redevelopment projects resulting in
any land disturbance including, but not limited to, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
   DEPARTMENT: City of Helena public works department.
   DETENTION/RETENTION BASINS: A normally dry area designed to capture and hold
stormwater. The stormwater may be captured and released at a uniform rate after
the storm peak flow has passed (detention) or the stormwater may be held for
evaporation or infiltration into the ground and not released at all
(retention).
   DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm drain
system.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed. This includes materials defined as hazardous
by the United States environmental protection agency and the Montana department
of environmental quality.
   ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system
including, but not limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater
discharge, including sewage, processed wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system, and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drains or connections had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the department, or any drain or
conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm
drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records, and approved by the department.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to MPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
   MS4: The municipal separate storm sewer system including stormwater drainage
facilities and system.
   MANMADE DRAINAGEWAY: An open channel designed to carry stormwater.
   MONTANA POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (MPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the Montana department of environmental quality that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to surface waters of the United States,
whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide
basis. Also includes permits issued by the United States environmental
protection agency.
   NATURAL DRAINAGEWAY: A recognizable drainage which has historically carried
storm or runoff water. The drainageway may still be in its native state or may
be partially or totally encroached upon. The limits of the drainageway are
considered to be the outermost area of flow for the design storm or the
prescribed easement for the drainageway.
   NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law.
   POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes; and refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so
that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous materials and wastes; sewage, fecal
coliform, and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes;
wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and
noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM OR FACILITIES: City owned or controlled facilities
that are part of the MS4 by which stormwater is collected or conveyed,
including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, municipal
streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered drainage
channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A written document which describes the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person to
identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site, and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   STORMWATER UTILITY: A funding mechanism for maintenance and operation of, as
well as capital improvements to, the stormwater drainage system. The utility is
a user fee charged equitably to all property within the service area which
benefits from the utility.
   WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all water entering the city's separate stormwater
system that is generated on any developed and undeveloped land. (Ord. 3120, 12-
21-2009)
6-6-5: STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE AREA:
The stormwater utility service area is inclusive of all premises annexed to the
city and bounded by the incorporated city limits as the same may be adjusted by
the city commission.
The city reserves the right to plan for drainage improvements outside the
service area. The city may also construct storm drainage improvements out of
the service area when needed as an integral part of the storm drain facilities
located within the service area. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The department shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the department may be
delegated by the department to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the city. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-7: COOPERATION WITH THE COUNTY:
The city shall, in all ways and within the limits of its powers, solicit the
county to cooperate in providing drainage facilities in stormwater basins, or
parts thereof, extending outside the city and, in general, to carry out the
drainage plan developed therein. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-8: STORM DRAINAGE MASTER PLAN:
The storm drainage master plan prepared by Stahley and Wright-McLaughlin
Engineers and dated April 9, 1980, as well as the application updates of the
Davis Gulch Basin dated May 1985, prepared by Robert Peccia and Associates, and
the updates of the Last Chance Gulch Basin, Bull Run Basin and West Area Basin
prepared by Stahley Engineering and Associates, dated May 1989, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter. The plans are on
file in the office of the city engineer. The city may adopt additional master
drainage plan updates by reference and declare them to be a part of this
chapter, and copies of such master drainage plan updates shall be on file in
the office of the city engineer. Modifications of the plans may be initiated by
the department and submitted to the city commission for approval. Approved
modifications are to be filed in the office of the city engineer. (Ord. 3120,
12-21-2009)
6-6-9: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-10: PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   A person may not discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards or that could cause the city to be in violation of its MPDES phase II
permit, other than stormwater. Any such prohibited discharge is an illegal
discharge.
   B.   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the MS4 is prohibited except as follows:
      1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater,
groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated and pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), springs, noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural
riparian habitat or wetland flows, firefighting activities, routine street and
utility maintenance, including chip sealing and spreading of gravel and other
materials necessary to provide safe streets, and any other water source not
containing pollutants;
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the department as being necessary
to protect public health and safety;
      3.   Any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an MPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the federal environmental protection agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system; and
      4.   Other nonstormwater discharges which are not a source of pollutants
to the city's MS4 or waters of the United States and are exempted in writing by
the department.
   C.   It is unlawful to introduce hazardous materials into any drainage
system. The originator of any hazardous material spill or introduction is
responsible for the material, and shall pay all applicable investigation and
cleanup costs, including the cost of equipment, materials, staff time with
fringes, and consultant charges.
   D.   The city may use available and reasonable testing to identify the
source of an illegal discharge including, but not limited to, visual
inspections, sample collection and testing, dye testing, and smoke testing.
(Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-11: DRAINAGEWAY PROTECTION:
   A.   It is unlawful to encroach upon natural or manmade drainageways with:
      1.   Temporary or permanent structures not approved by the city manager;
or
      2.   Fill material or other material obstructing or restricting natural
stormwater flow.
   B.   Natural or manmade drainageways may be altered under the supervision
of, and upon application to, the department under the following circumstances:
      1.   A roadway crossing, provided drainage is considered in the design
and culverts are designed to handle proper flow as specified in the master plan
and updates, or bridges are designed such that the opening is adequate;
      2.   Improvements such as detention basins; and
      3.   Slope improvements.
All improvements or changes to drainageways must be designed by a registered
professional engineer and submitted for approval to the department. Approval
must be obtained before any on site work commences. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-12: PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illegal
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   B.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   C.   A person who wishes to connect to the MS4 shall obtain permission from
the department to install the connection in accordance with city engineering
standards. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-13: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   The department may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the department may take such steps as deemed necessary
to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   B.   A person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have
their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illegal discharge. The department will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the department for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   C.   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
department. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-14: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   This section applies to all facilities that have stormwater discharges
including construction activity.
   B.   The department is permitted to enter and inspect MS4 facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the department.
   C.   Facility operators shall allow the department ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an MPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
   D.   The department has the right to set up on any permitted facility such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the department to conduct monitoring
or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
   E.   The department has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment must be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality must be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   F.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected or sampled must be promptly removed by the operator at
the written or oral request of the department and may not be replaced. The cost
of clearing such access is borne by the operator.
   G.   Unreasonable delay in allowing the department access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with an MPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the department reasonable access to the permitted facility for the
purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
   H.   If the department has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and it is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there
is a need to inspect or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the city may seek issuance of a court order from any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-15: DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY AND POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER
CONTROL:
   A.   A construction activity stormwater permit is required for construction
activity that disturbs one acre or more, including projects disturbing less
than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of development,
redevelopment, or sale. A permit may only be issued subsequent to a properly
submitted and reviewed permit application, pursuant to this section.
   B.   An owner or developer of land required to obtain a construction
activity stormwater permit must submit an executed copy of the state standard
notice of intent ("NOI") and a stormwater pollution prevention plan prepared
and stamped by a licensed professional engineer prior to performing any
construction activity.
   C.   A construction activity stormwater permit will require erosion and
sediment controls through the design, installation, and construction of
stormwater management and control practices on the permitted construction site
including structural BMPs and elements of site design for construction
stormwater management other than structural BMPs.
   D.   The permittee is required to perform regularly scheduled construction
activity site inspections at least every fourteen (14) calendar days and within
twenty four (24) hours of a precipitation event to ensure that all BMPs have
been constructed and are functioning properly. The permittee must document all
inspections in writing and make inspection records available to the department
for review.
   E.   Commencement of construction work on development or redevelopment
projects that disturbs one acre or more, including projects disturbing less
than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of development, may not
begin until such time as a permit is issued and final approval of the drainage
plan if required below is obtained in accordance with this chapter.
   F.   Any person subject to a construction activity MPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
department prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
   G.   In order to address postconstruction stormwater runoff, all owners or
developers of property that are required to submit a drainage plan shall
provide the stormwater facilities necessary for the drainage and control of
flood and surface waters within stormwater basins and shall provide the
facilities required to convey such waters from the stormwater basin to major
drainageways. The cost of installing stormwater facilities in the service area
is charged in whole or in part against the property in the service area.
   H.   All owners or developers applying for any of the following permits or
approvals shall submit a drainage plan for approval, prepared and stamped by a
professional engineer, with the application or request:
      1.   Major subdivision plat approval;
      2.   Minor subdivision plat approval;
      3.   Building permits where the impervious development coverage within
the property is five thousand (5,000) or more square feet, or where development
is in an area critical to the functioning of the MS4 as determined by the
department; and
      4.   Planned unit development (PUD).
   I.   The same plan submitted during one permit or approval process may be
subsequently submitted with other required applications. The plan must be
supplemented with such additional information as may be requested by the
department.
   J.   The drainage plan requirement established in this section applies
except when the owner or developer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
department that the proposed use of the property:
      1.   Will neither seriously nor adversely impact the water quality
conditions of any affected receiving bodies of water;
      2.   Will not alter the surface discharge location, alter the drainage
pattern on adjoining properties, alter drainage patterns, increase the
discharge, or cause any other adverse effects in the drainage area; and
      3.   Will not alter the subsurface drainage patterns, flow rates and
discharge points, or result in any significant adverse effects to property or
residents.
   K.   Drainage plans shall be prepared by a certified engineer in accordance
with current hydraulic hydrology practices and hydrology design standards and
shall be consistent with the storm drain master plan. Drainage plans shall
consist of drainage calculations and mitigation of stormwater drainage and
include contour lines as necessary and explicitly describe the stormwater
drainage system, including any required detention areas.
   L.   All required storm drainage plans must be submitted for review by and
approval of the department. At the time of approval of the drainage plan for
the subject property, a schedule for inspection of required construction and
facilities will be established by the department. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-16: CREDIT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
If the department requires an owner or developer to construct stormwater
facilities that serve more than that development and are identified in the
storm drain master plan, a portion of the actual costs incurred may be eligible
for credit from the city's stormwater drainage assessment. To be eligible for
credit, prior to final approval of the development agreement, the owner or
developer must submit a report to the stormwater utility detailing the proposed
improvements and obtain the city's approval of the report. The report must
identify all elements of the project eligible for credit and include a detailed
project description, a project bid form with estimated quantities, unit prices,
engineering design and construction management costs. The report also must
provide an accurate quantity and cost delineation between the proposed
stormwater improvements necessary to meet the standard requirements of the
development. The books and records of the owner or developer relating to the
stormwater facilities for which the utility is providing reimbursement must be
open to the city at all reasonable times for the purpose of auditing or
verifying costs. The department will recommend inclusion of the cost of
improvements eligible for credit in the next available budget submitted to the
city commission. Upon approval and appropriation by the city commission, such
costs will be credited from the storm drainage fund. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACCEPTED STORMWATER FACILITIES:
All stormwater facilities constructed, installed, or provided hereunder, upon
acceptance by the city, are the property of the city and thereafter the city is
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facilities. The city shall
maintain all accepted public stormwater facilities located within city owned
land, city rights of way and city easements. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-18: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRIVATE STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
Property owners who install private storm drainage facilities that are not
connected to the MS4 and not accepted by the city are required to perform
maintenance of all private storm drainage facilities to ensure that those
facilities function as designed. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-19: APPLICABILITY TO GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:
All governmental entities are required to submit a drainage plan and comply
with the terms of this chapter when developing or improving land including, but
not limited to, road construction and reconstruction and other improvements
that can affect stormwater runoff within the city. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-20: REQUIREMENT TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The department will adopt requirements identifying BMPs for any activity,
operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. The
owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at
the owner's own expense, reasonable protection from the accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses through the
use of these structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible
for a property or premises that is or may be the source of an illegal
discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional
structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of
pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid MPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, is
deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. Adopted BMPs shall be
part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the MPDES permit. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-21: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. that
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
that person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the department in person or by
phone, electronic mail, or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notification in person or by phone must be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the department within three (3) business days of the
phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records must be retained for
at least three (3) years. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-22: MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORMWATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The purpose of the stormwater utility rates and charges established by
the city commission is to generate sufficient revenue to pay all costs for the
operation, maintenance, administration and routine functions of the existing
MS4 and the operation, maintenance and administration of such future storm
drainage facilities as may be established within or without the service area
and to pay for the review of drainage plans, and the design, right of way
acquisition and construction or reconstruction of stormwater facilities. All of
the proceeds are deemed to be in payment for use of the city stormwater system.
   B.   The department shall determine the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance of the stormwater system. The total annual cost of operation and
maintenance includes, but is not limited to, labor, repairs, equipment
replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory
tests and a reasonable contingency fund. Capital improvement priorities are
determined by the city commission, and utility rates shall be passed in the
same manner as all other special assessments. All assessments are set by
resolution after public hearing.
   C.   The city may assess a user fee upon all assessable property within the
service area. This charge must appear on yearly property tax statements
distributed by the county or by individual billing where necessary. The
property owner shall pay the fee directly to the county and the county shall
then pay the city the fee in the same manner as all other special fees and
assessments. The city reserves the right to pursue further legal action to
remedy nonpayment. Nonpayment constitutes a lien on the property, as are other
taxes and assessments, in accordance with state law.
   D.   The rates, charges, and rentals are deemed prima facie fair,
reasonable, and equitable. In any case where any contention is made that the
rates are unfair, inequitable, or unreasonable, the party objecting thereto
shall apply to the city, stating the facts and grounds of the complaint, and
the city shall investigate and report with recommendations to the city
commission. The city shall consider each and every such complaint and report,
and communicate such findings in respect thereto to the city commission within
one month after the filing of each such complaint. The city commission has the
right to order public hearings as to any such matter and, if convinced that an
adjustment of stormwater utility rates or charges for such lot or parcel of
land is necessary to provide equality with those charged to others, it shall so
provide. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-23: VIOLATIONS AND CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Whenever the department finds that a person has violated a prohibition
or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the department may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illegal connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of restitution for remediation costs;
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; and
      7.   The cessation of any construction or postconstruction work not
permitted according to this chapter.
   B.   If abatement of a violation or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice will set forth a deadline within which such remediation or
restoration must be completed. Said notice will further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
may be done by the city and the expense thereof may be levied against the real
property of the violator.
   C.   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, then the department may enter upon the
subject private property and is authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation or restore the property. The total cost
thereof may be assessed against the real property of the violator in the same
manner as a property tax. It is unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person
in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the department or designated
contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above. (Ord.
3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-24: VIOLATIONS AND CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of this chapter may also subject the violator to a fine in any sum
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine and
imprisonment. The department may recover all attorney fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling
and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-25: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with
any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or continues
to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition for a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities
which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform
abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
6-6-26: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal or state law, and it is within the
discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies. (Ord. 3120, 12-21-2009)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL AND NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-7-1:   Intent And Purpose
6-7-2:   Establishment Of Electrical And Natural Gas Utility
6-7-3:   State Law Superseded
6-7-4:   Severability
6-7-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to form a utility to provide
electrical and natural gas utility services for customers both within and
without the corporate limits of the city who voluntarily choose either utility
service. These utility services would be competitive with those offered by
private utility companies, and will make customer choice available to residents
and businesses in the city on a free choice basis. Under Montana law and
particularly the city's self-government powers, the city has the legal
authority to create this electrical and natural gas utility. (Ord. 2841, 6-1-
1998)
6-7-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF ELECTRICAL AND NATURAL GAS UTILITY:
The city commission hereby establishes within its municipal structure an
electrical and natural gas utility. In order to create, operate and maintain
this utility the commission grants to the city the necessary powers to do the
following:
   A.   Purchase electrical energy from public and private electricity
suppliers;
   B.   Purchase natural gas from suppliers, aggregators, marketers and
producers;
   C.   Enter into contracts for the procurement, transmission, distribution,
and metering of electrical energy and natural gas;
   D.   Sell electrical energy and natural gas to retail customers located
within and without the corporate limits of the city who voluntarily choose this
service;
   E.   Obtain necessary licenses to act as a municipal utility for selling
electrical energy and natural gas to retail customers;
   F.   Take title to and aggregate electrical energy as an intermediary for
sale to retail customers;
   G.   Arrange for the transmission and distribution of electrical energy and
natural gas to retail customers;
   H.   Provide for the metering and billing of electrical energy and natural
gas sold to retail customers;
   I.   Establish rules for the operation of a municipal utility engaged in the
business of retail sale of electrical energy and natural gas;
   J.   Acquire property needed to supply electrical energy and natural gas to
its retail customers, including condemnation proceedings if necessary; and
   K.   Do all things necessary and proper for the creation, operation and
maintenance of a public utility engaged in the business of the retail sale of
electrical energy and natural gas. (Ord. 2841, 6-1-1998)
6-7-3: STATE LAW SUPERSEDED:
Any Montana statute inconsistent with section
6-7-2 of this chapter is hereby superseded. (Ord. 2841, 6-1-1998)
6-7-4: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid. (Ord. 2841, 6-1-1998)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS
SECTION:
7-1-1:   Street Grades
7-1-2:   Alteration Of Grades
7-1-3:   Cross Sections
7-1-4:   Removal Of Range Stones
7-1-5:   Hydrants, Posts, Poles, Location
7-1-6:   Temporary Closing Of Streets
7-1-7:   Closure And Vacations
7-1-8:   Street Maintenance And Improvements
7-1-1: STREET GRADES:
The grades of paved streets as given in detail upon the official profiles in
the office of the city engineer, are hereby declared to be the established
grades upon the streets and parts thereof shown therein. (Ord. 1693, 11-2-1964)
7-1-2: ALTERATION OF GRADES:
It shall be the duty of the engineer to make such alterations upon the official
profiles of all the several streets, and upon the duplicates of said profiles,
that may from time to time become necessary to indicate any changes that may
have been ordered by the commission, or may hereafter be ordered in the
established grade of any street or part of any street, and the clerk shall
notify the engineer of all official profiles approved or changed by the
commission. (1908 Code)
7-1-3: CROSS SECTIONS:
The cross section of a street shall be established by the engineer upon any or
all streets in the city whenever so directed by the commission, and the
engineer shall report his action in establishing the cross section of any
street to the commission for approval. (1908 Code)
7-1-4: REMOVAL OF RANGE STONES:
Any person who shall remove, displace or mutilate the range stones imbedded in
the streets of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that where
it shall become necessary for the purpose of grading or paving the said
streets, to remove or displace said range stones, such displacement or removal
shall be done under the personal supervision of the engineer, and only in
vertical lines, and the said range stones so displaced or removed shall be
removed to a depth of not less than six inches (6") below the surface of said
streets respectively. (1908 Code)
7-1-5: HYDRANTS, POSTS, POLES, LOCATION:
All telegraph, telephone, electric light, electric power and fire alarm poles,
and all hydrants shall be placed as directed by the city engineer. (1979 Code)
7-1-6: TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS:
Whenever by order of the commission any street or alley, or any portion
thereof, has been temporarily closed for constructing improvements thereon or
repairing the same, it shall be unlawful for any person other than the city
contractor or the city's employees, in case the city itself is constructing
such improvement, to operate any vehicle thereon, or to interfere with, take
down or remove any of the lights, barricades, guards or barriers, or any
portion thereof, surrounding said closed portion of such street or alley. The
chief of police or city manager may order the temporary closure of public ways
when public safety requires. The city manager may order the temporary closure
of rights of way used for an outdoor event after considering safety, traffic
disruption, availability of alternate traffic routes, and other impacts of
closure. Temporary closures by the chief of police or city manager shall be
reported to the commission at its next meeting. (Ord. 2898, 8-28-2000)
7-1-7: CLOSURE AND VACATIONS:
The commission may close or vacate streets, alleys and other public ways. Any
person desiring the closure or vacation of a street, alley or other public way
shall apply therefor and pay to the city an application fee. The city shall
investigate the proposed closure or vacation and shall, after public notice,
hold a public hearing thereon and either approve, deny or conditionally approve
said closure or vacation. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   A.   The term "closure" shall mean the cessation of general public use, but
the city shall retain title to the right of way. A closed public way may
subsequently be reopened for vehicular or other traffic by the commission after
public notice and hearing. (Ord. 2267, 11-15-1982)
   B.   The term "vacation" shall mean closure and transfer of legal title of
the right of way. On vacation, the owners of the adjacent parcels shall each
take title to the portions of the vacated right of way that revert to the
adjacent parcels as determined by the city commission. The owners shall present
an amended plat to the city commission for approval, showing the new lots or
parcels resulting from the reversion of the vacated right of way, and are
responsible for preparing quitclaim deeds for the transfer of the vacated right
of way in accordance with the approved amended plat. (Ord. 2810, 10-6-1997)
   C.   A person applying for a quitclaim deed for vacated right of way shall
first pay a transfer fee to the city in an amount equal to the market value of
the vacated right of way to be reverted. The market value of the vacated right
of way is the value per square foot of the adjoining property to which the
vacated right of way will revert, as appraised by the Montana department of
revenue in the most recent periodic evaluation, multiplied by the area of the
portion of the reverted right of way. If there is no value for the adjoining
property from the department of revenue, the value of the closest property
having such an appraised value will be used. No deed for vacated right of way
may be delivered until the transfer fee is paid. (Ord. 2851, 8-24-1998)
7-1-8: STREET MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The city's method of providing maintenance and improvements in street
maintenance districts is as follows:
      1.   Maintenance and improvements may be accomplished by city employees,
through contract for services by outside parties, or any combination thereof.
      2.   City may purchase, rent, lease, or borrow any equipment necessary to
perform the maintenance and improvements.
      3.   City may procure necessary materials, supplies, or other goods
necessary to perform the maintenance and improvements.
      4.   Maintenance and improvements consist of any of the tasks, repairs,
and improvements defined by sections 7-12-4401 and 4405, Montana Code
Annotated, as being appropriate for street maintenance and improvements.
      5.   The level and types of maintenance and improvements are determined
in accordance with priorities established by the city and to the extent of the
availability of adequate funding.
   B.   The city's method of paying for street maintenance and improvement
costs will be an assessment against all assessable real property within the
city that receives the benefit of the maintenance or improvement. The
assessment will be based upon an assessment option or combination of options
provided for by section 7-12-4422, Montana Code Annotated, for street
maintenance and improvement assessments. The improvement costs may be assessed
in a single year, assessed over multiple years to match project completion
timing, or assessed over multiple years for scheduled debt payments incurred to
finance the improvements. The selected assessment methodology and the
assessment rate will be set annually by resolution adopted by the city
commission.
   C.   During the annual budget development as provided in title 7, chapter 6,
part 40, Montana Code Annotated, street maintenance district improvements shall
be determined, listed, and included in the street maintenance district fund
budget.
   D.   Ten percent (10%) of the total actual cost for each improvement project
listed in the annual street maintenance and improvement district fund budget
must be set aside in a reserve fund dedicated for nonmotorized improvements
within the street maintenance district. The city commission may waive this
requirement only if it is clearly established that an individual project has
nonmotorized improvements that amount to ten percent (10%) of the total actual
cost for the improvement project.
   E.   Any proposed improvement that is not listed in the annual street
maintenance district fund budget must be approved by the city commission before
the project can proceed.
   F.   Any remaining improvement budget may be carried over from year to year
as necessary for the completion of the improvements. (Ord. 3213, 11-2-2015)
   G.   The city commission hereby rescinds any previous ordinances that
established a method for maintenance and assessment of street maintenance
districts. (Ord. 2993, 6-21-2004; amd. Ord. 3213, 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1:   Compliance Required
7-2-2:   Application For Excavation
7-2-3:   Bond; Insurance; Deposit
7-2-4:   Work Zones And Work Zone Traffic Control
7-2-5:   Fees For Excavations
7-2-6:   Tunneling
7-2-7:   Protection Of City Mains
7-2-8:   Time Limit To Be Specified
7-2-9:   Backfilling
7-2-10:   Restoration Of Surfaces
7-2-11:   Temporary Repairs
7-2-12:   Warranty Period
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut through or tear open the surface of
any street, alley or other roadway in the city, without first complying with
the conditions hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 1302, 6-23-1941)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR EXCAVATION:
   A.   Any person desiring to cut through or tear open the surface of any
street, alley or other roadway within the city shall first file a written
application with the building division of the community development department
for an opening permit. Said application shall state the object sought, the
purpose for which said street is to be cut through or broken open, the proposed
area of such opening, the time needed to accomplish the proposed work, and the
exact location thereof. The building division shall notify the public works
department of the application.
   B.   The building division may, after approval from the public works
department, grant or refuse to grant such application for an opening permit.
The refusal of the building division to grant an opening permit is subject to
review by the city manager. If the opening permit is granted, the applicant
shall accomplish the proposed work within the time allowed by the permit, and
shall backfill any such excavation with proper compaction. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-
2005)
7-2-3: BOND; INSURANCE; DEPOSIT:
   A.   Any applicant applying for permission to open any city street, alley or
other roadway must post with the city clerk an indemnity and performance
security bond in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) payable to the
city, to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character
whatsoever, which may arise as a result of said applicant's opening any such
street, alley or other roadway, or which may in any way or manner be connected
therewith, or related thereto and to guaranty that the replacement and repair
of the opened street or alley surface and subsurface are installed in
accordance with city street construction standards and the terms of the opening
permit.
   B.   Any person, before making any opening in any street, alley or other
roadway within the city, must first obtain an opening permit and file with the
city clerk a certificate of insurance or its equivalent providing for public
liability coverage in the sum of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars
($750,000.00) for each person, and an aggregate sum of one million five hundred
thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00) for more than one person on account of any one
accident, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage, to
protect the parties and indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the city from any
expense, cost, damage and any liability of any kind or character whatsoever
resulting from or which may arise as a result of said applicant's opening any
such street, alley or other roadway, or which may in any way be connected
therewith, or relating thereto. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-4: WORK ZONES AND WORK ZONE TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Work zones are areas where workers and equipment occupy portions of the street
and street right of way for maintenance, utility work, construction,
deliveries, moving or other purposes that cannot be accomplished without
impacting the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
All work being done in the city right of way must be protected by signing,
barricading or other means in accordance with city policy. Motorists
approaching street work zones must reduce their speed in these areas to no
faster than the posted speed in the work zone, and shall drive with utmost
caution so that they can examine the area for their own safety, the safety of
passengers and the safety of the workers, before proceeding through or past
work zones. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-5: FEES FOR EXCAVATIONS:
A charge shall be made for the cost of issuing a permit and for the cost of
inspection for street and alley openings of any kind. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013,
eff. 7-15-2013)
7-2-6: TUNNELING:
No tunneling is allowed in or under the right of way of any street or alley
section, including curb and gutter or sidewalk. Boring and jacking is allowed
under the right of way. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-7: PROTECTION OF CITY MAINS:
All water and sewer mains must be uncovered by hand digging. As the opening is
being made a person must be provided for the purpose of watching the operations
as the bucket approaches the pipe so that the hand digging is provided in time
to protect the city mains.
The owner of the property for which the opening is done and the person
performing the opening or digging are jointly and severally liable and
chargeable for any damage or loss suffered by the city because of the breaking
of a water or sewer main with a power shovel or ditcher and shall also pay the
entire cost of replacing and repairing same. The public works director is
authorized and directed to stop the operations at or on any opening or digging
until the costs mentioned above are paid to the city, or any other required fee
is paid, or until any other requirement set forth in this chapter has been
complied with. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-8: TIME LIMIT TO BE SPECIFIED:
Before an opening permit is granted, the applicant must specify the time limit
within which the work will be completed and the opening refilled. All openings
must be refilled within eight (8) working hours after the work of opening is
commenced except in extraordinary cases and conditions for which a special
permit must be granted by the public works director specifying the period of
time necessary to complete the work. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-9: BACKFILLING:
All spaces excavated and not occupied by abutments, piers or other permanent
work must be refilled with earth up to the surface of the surrounding ground.
Where the backfill is to carry the roadway embankment or any part thereof, the
backfill shall be made in continuous horizontal layers not greater than eight
inches (8") in thickness, and each layer shall be thoroughly compacted by
tamping by a method approved by the city before the succeeding layer is placed
and the same for an approach to embankment to bridges and culverts. All other
backfill shall be thoroughly compacted and its top surface shall be neatly
graded. All material used for backfill shall be of a quality acceptable to the
public works director and shall be free from large or frozen lumps, wood or
other extraneous material. In general, this material shall be selected from the
material excavated in connection with the substructure involved. Jetting or
ponding of the backfill will not be permitted unless specifically authorized by
the city engineer, in which case mechanical tamping will be required. All
aspects of backfilling must comply with city street construction standards.
(Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-10: RESTORATION OF SURFACES:
The cut surface of a street or alley opening must be restored with the same
type and quality of material and at the depth as existed prior to the opening.
Asphalt surface repairs or replacements must have a minimum depth of three
inches (3") of compacted hot mix asphalt. To repair asphalt surfaces on
existing street sections with an asphalt depth greater than three inches (3"),
the surface must be restored with hot mix asphalt to an equal depth up to six
inches (6") and compacted in no less than two (2) separate lifts, each lift
being no less than two inches (2") or more than three inches (3") thick. (Ord.
3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-11: TEMPORARY REPAIRS:
When permanent repairs or replacement of asphalt surfaces are not feasible
because hot asphalt mix is not readily available, the surface must be
temporarily restored with an approved all weather patch. The person responsible
for the temporary restoration shall maintain the temporary patch until final
restoration is completed and shall make final restoration with hot asphalt mix
when it is available. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
7-2-12: WARRANTY PERIOD:
   A.   Any person making a street or alley opening that requires subsequent
restoration of the surface, curb and gutter, or sidewalk, shall warrant the
quality and durability of the restoration for two (2) years after acceptance by
the public works department of the completed restoration to all portions of the
right of way disturbed by the opening, including the road surface, curb and
gutter, and sidewalk, and the proper disposal of all waste material.
   B.   Upon failure of a right of way restoration during the warranty period,
the public works director will notify the person who provided the warranty of
the failure. A restoration failure has occurred when any part of the restored
surface has fallen or heaved by more than one-half inch (1/2") above or below
the adjacent surface, or the restored surface has internal or external cracking
or deterioration to the extent the structural integrity of the restoration is
compromised. Immediately upon receiving notice, the person who provided the
warranty shall secure the failed site and provide adequate barricading and
warning signs to protect the public. That person shall then commence repair to
the failed site by the next working day. If the repair is not timely made, the
public works department may make the necessary repairs and the person failing
to do the repair shall reimburse the city for all material and direct and
indirect labor costs expended in making the repair. If the person fails to
reimburse the city for the material and labor costs within thirty (30) days of
the date of the notice requesting payment, that person may be barred from
receiving future street and alley opening permits. (Ord. 3013, 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 3
OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1:   Obstructions For Building Excavations
7-3-2:   Fences Required
7-3-3:   Warning Lights Required
7-3-4:   Disposal Of Rubbish
7-3-5:   Termination Of Permission
7-3-6:   Railroad Cars Obstructing Streets
7-3-7:   Sight Distance Triangle
7-3-1: OBSTRUCTIONS FOR BUILDING EXCAVATIONS:
Any person who desires to occupy or obstruct any part of any sidewalk or street
during the excavation of any building, or for the storage of material for the
construction, repair or removal of any buildings, may, after having procured
the permits required by the provisions of this code, occupy and obstruct for
such purposes not more than one-third (1/3) of the width of such street,
including the sidewalk on the conditions hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 621, 12-
17-1906)
7-3-2: FENCES REQUIRED:
Such person shall construct and maintain, during the progress of such work, a
good and sufficient fence, from sidewalk to sidewalk, enclosing such
excavation; provided, that a driveway may be left in such fence during the
actual delivery of material into or from such excavation, such driveway to be
safely closed, except when in actual use. Such person shall furthermore
construct and maintain a sidewalk free from obstructions, from the permanent
sidewalk to sidewalk, not less than three feet (3') in width and composed of
plank not less than two inches (2") in thickness around such excavation, or
such materials or fence. (Ord. 621, 12-17-1906)
7-3-3: WARNING LIGHTS REQUIRED:
Approved warning lights shall be placed about such excavations or deposits of
material, from dark to daylight of each day that the same shall remain, as an
obstruction in the sidewalk or the street. (Ord. 621, 12-17-1906)
7-3-4: DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH:
The portion of the sidewalk or street so to be used shall be only that portion
directly in front of the property to be improved, and no material shall be
stored upon the street, except such as is to be immediately used in such
improvement or construction; and no rubbish removed from the excavation of a
building shall be allowed to be stored upon the street, but the same must be
removed from day to day. (Ord. 621, 12-17-1906)
7-3-5: TERMINATION OF PERMISSION:
The permission herein given shall terminate with the construction of the
intended improvement and such fence and all other obstructions shall be
immediately removed therefrom. (Ord. 621, 12-17-1906)
7-3-6: RAILROAD CARS OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or railroad company, or its agents or
employees, to obstruct for a longer time than ten (10) minutes the free passage
of any street or highway within the limits of the city by means of any railroad
car, cars, engine or engines, or any train; or to permit the same or any of
them to remain in or upon any public street or highway across which any
railroad is constructed for a longer period than ten (10) minutes.
Provided, however, that no violation of this section will be deemed to have
occurred if any railroad car or cars block city streets for more than ten (10)
minutes, and said blockage is caused by a bona fide mechanical emergency.
Any person or railroad company, or its agents or employees, convicted of a
violation of this section may be sentenced to three (3) months imprisonment, or
by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by both such fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 2344, 6-4-1984)
7-3-7: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, buildings,
structures, off street parking spaces, fences, walls, or landscaping may not be
constructed or allowed to grow on any corner lot so as to impede vision of
vehicular traffic using the adjoining right of way within a triangular area
determined by the projected curb intersection and points along the two (2)
curbs at a distance of fifty feet (50') from the projected curb intersection,
between a height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10') above the
grade of the projected curb intersection, spanning diagonally from curb to curb
across the corner created by two (2) intersecting public or private streets or
thoroughfares, or from the centerline of an alley or the apparent traveled path
thereof across the corner to the street curb between a height of two and one-
half feet (21/2') and eight feet (8') above the grade of the projected curb
intersection. This triangular area is known as the "sight distance triangle"
and is established in the following manner:
      1.   At an uncontrolled, unsigned intersection, the sight distance
triangle has sides of fifty feet (50') measured along both of the intersecting
curbs.
      2.   In a partially controlled intersection, having one street with a
stop sign or yield right of way sign and the other street being uncontrolled,
the sides of the sight distance triangle, as measured along the curb from the
point of the projected intersection of the two (2) curbs, are fifty feet (50')
measured along the curb of the uncontrolled street and fifteen feet (15')
measured along the controlled street. If the uncontrolled street has a speed
limit of thirty five (35) miles per hour or more, the sides of the sight
distance triangle, as measured along the curb from the point of the projected
intersection of the two (2) curbs, are one hundred feet (100') measured along
the curb of the uncontrolled street, and fifteen feet (15') measured along the
curb of the controlled street.
      3.   At a fully controlled intersection where both streets have traffic
control signs, the sight distance triangle has sides of fifteen feet (15')
measured along both of the intersecting curbs.
      4.   At the intersection of any street with an alley, the sides of the
sight distance triangle, as measured along the street curb line from the point
of the intersection of the street curb and the centerline of the alley are ten
feet (10').
   B.   This section does not apply to:
      1.   Trees that have a single trunk trimmed to at least eight feet (8')
above the curb;
      2.   Fire hydrants, public utility poles, street signs, and traffic
control devices;
      3.   Existing permanent buildings;
      4.   Existing grades which, by reason of natural topography, exceed
thirty inches (30") above the curb; and
      5.   Signs mounted eight feet (8') or more above the curb whose supports
do not exceed eighteen inches (18") in diameter.
   C.   If no curbs or gutters exist at an intersection, then the curb line is
assumed to be twenty feet (20') from the centerline of the right of way.
   D.   Regardless of any other provisions of this section, fences, walls,
trees, or hedges erected or maintained in any area, which materially impede the
vision of vehicles entering an intersection, as determined by the director of
community development, are obstructions to the visibility of persons operating
vehicles and are public nuisances.
   E.   Owners and tenants of any premises within the city have a duty to abate
such public nuisances in front of or adjoining their premises within the public
right of way or upon their premises by demolishing, removing, or trimming the
cause of the public nuisance, following notification to and receipt of approval
from the city to do so.
   F.   No existing obstructions to visibility as prohibited above are exempted
from the application of this section except as set forth herein.
   G.   Failure to remove, trim, or otherwise lawfully abate an obstruction
within the time frame specified by the director of community development,
following notification of the violation, may result in the removal, trimming,
or abatement of the same by the city with the total cost thereof being added to
the taxes levied against the real property upon which the obstruction exists,
pursuant to the provisions of section 7-10-18 of this title. (Ord. 3098, 4-7-
2008)
CHAPTER 4
SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
SECTION:
7-4-1:   Definitions
7-4-2:   Owners To Build
7-4-3:   City Engineer To Supervise
7-4-4:   Permit Fees
7-4-5:   Grades
7-4-6:   Notice To Build
7-4-7:   Cost; Lien
7-4-8:   Repair Of Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters
7-4-9:   Obstructions Prohibited
7-4-10:   Preservation Of Brick Sidewalks
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, all property having a frontage upon the side
or margin of any street shall be deemed to be abutting property, and such
property shall be chargeable, as provided by this chapter, for all cost of
maintenance, repairs or renewal of any form of sidewalk improvement between the
said street margin and the roadway lying in front of and adjacent to said
property. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-2: OWNERS TO BUILD:
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of the city to build sidewalks to provide a
connected system for those walking or for those with disabilities traveling
across the city. In addition, the city aims for boulevard sidewalks that allow
for traffic calming, separation from the roadway, and winter snow storage for
cleaner streets.
   B.   Owner Build Standards: All persons owning abutting property shall build
the sidewalks, curbs and gutters for such property, and the same shall be built
to the following standards:
      1.   Sidewalk Placement: The location and installation of sidewalks on
public right of way are subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Except as provided in this section, sidewalks are to be placed
along the property line with the remaining right of way to the curb line to be
developed as a boulevard. When the right of way remaining for boulevard is more
than seven feet (7') wide, the city manager or the city manager's designee may
allow the owner to place the sidewalk away from the property line. The minimum
width of the sidewalk is five feet (5') and the maximum is fourteen feet (14').
         b.   The City Manager may grant a variance to the sidewalk placement
location requirements of this section upon application from the owner of the
property abutting the proposed sidewalk where unusual conditions or strict
adherence to this chapter would cause undue and extreme hardship. If variance
request is denied, the owner may appeal the decision to the City Commission.
         c.   Upon approval of the transportation systems director, the owner
may make other minor deviations on the location of the sidewalk, including
meandering the sidewalk to accommodate immovable obstacles and terrain
impediments and for attachment to and continuity with adjacent sidewalks.
         d.   The location of the walks will be determined during the
development of the preliminary plat for the new subdivisions, approval of
conditional use permits, issuance of building permits for construction or major
renovation of principal structures on adjacent property, and upon establishment
of conditions for annexation.
         e.   Unless previously constructed, sidewalks must be installed on
abutting right of way as part of the construction or major renovation of a
principal structure. The installation of required sidewalks must be part of the
building permit issued for the principal structure.
         f.   If the major renovation of a principal structure occurs as
determined in the sole discretion of the City, the owner must construct
sidewalks that comply with current sidewalk engineering and/or ADA standards,
even where the sidewalks are already constructed.
         g.   If there are no impervious roadway improvements in the adjacent
right-of-way, the property owner may request to defer installation of
sidewalks, curbs and gutters from the city manager or the city manager's
designee so that construction is deferred until a later date with adequate
justification. Part of the request must include a time certain when the owner
would be required to build sidewalks, such as when the road is improved, and a
signature on a waiver of the property owner's right to protest the
establishment of any future adjacent roadway special improvement district. If
deferral is approved, waiver must be recorded by the property owner with the
County Clerk and Recorder's Office at their own cost.
      2.   Existing Conditions: A sidewalk may be installed to conform in
location and width to an adjacent existing sidewalk fronting the same street,
provided that:
         a.   The existing adjacent sidewalk is in place, is in serviceable
condition, at acceptable grade, and was built in conformance with standards in
effect at the time of installation; and
         b.   More than one-half (1/2) of the length of the block fronting the
street contains sidewalk that is in place and built to acceptable grades and in
serviceable condition.
      3.   Effective Date: Sidewalks constructed or installed after August 15,
1999, in violation of this section must be removed and replaced with sidewalks
complying with this section. This removal and replacement must occur within the
time ordered by the city manager, but in any case not exceeding one year from
the date of written notice to the responsible property owner.
      4.   Construction Specifications: All concrete for sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, alley approaches and drive approaches shall be class 5 using a minimum
of five (5) sacks of cement per yard of concrete and developing a minimum
compression strength of three thousand (3,000) psi after twenty eight (28)
days. All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement concrete four
inches (4") thick and shall rise one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot from the top
of the curb to the property line.
      5.   Obstructions In The Right Of Way: All obstructions in the right of
way not specifically allowed by the city as a matter of record shall be removed
and replaced at the cost of the property owner.
      6.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be integral curbs and
gutters or as specified by the city engineer.
      7.   New Or Replacement: New or replaced sidewalk, curb and gutter shall
conform to city specifications and as directed by the city engineer.
      8.   Alley Approaches; Cost: Cost of alley approaches will be assessed
against all properties within the block served by the alley according to the
ratio of each property's square footage to the total square footage within the
block.
      9.   Drive Approaches; Cost: The cost of drive approach repairs will be
the property owner's responsibility.
(Ord. 1979, 2-9-1976; amd. Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990; Ord. 2877, 7-12-1999; Ord.
3012, 2-14-2005; Ord. 3193, 8-18-2014; Ord. 3318, 3-11-2024)
7-4-3: CITY ENGINEER TO SUPERVISE:
The duties imposed upon owners of abutting property by the laws of this state
and by this chapter shall at all times be exercised under the supervision and
to the acceptance of the city engineer or his inspector. No work which shall
create any obstruction to public travel shall be commenced until a permit
therefor shall have been granted by said city engineer, and the owner of
abutting property shall be liable for all damage which may arise by reason of
carelessness in conducting any work upon the adjacent sidewalk, or by reason of
lack of protection of the public from danger by proper guards or signals,
either by night or day. (Ord. 1979, 2-9-1976)
7-4-4: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Five dollars ($5.00) for seventy foot (70') lot or fraction thereof.
   B.   Two dollars ($2.00) for each additional fifty feet (50') or fraction
thereof. (Ord. 1979, 2-9-1976)
7-4-5: GRADES:
For sidewalk, curb and gutter purposes, the established grade of paved streets
shall be on file in the office of the city engineer. Sidewalks, curbs and
gutters established on unpaved streets will be considered to be established
without city approval. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-6: NOTICE TO BUILD:
Upon an order by the commission for the construction of any sidewalk, curb and
gutter, the city engineer shall immediately give written notice thereof, to the
owner or agent of such property in such manner as the commission may direct. If
the owner or agent of such property or parcel of land shall fail or neglect for
a period of thirty (30) days after the date of service of such notice to cause
such sidewalk, curb and gutter or any combination thereof, to be constructed,
the city may construct or cause such sidewalk, curb and gutter or any
combination thereof, to be constructed, and shall assess the cost thereof,
including engineering costs and the costs enumerated in sections 7-12-4121 and
7-12-4169, Montana Code Annotated, against the property in front of which the
same is constructed. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-7: COST; LIEN:
The construction of all new sidewalks, curbs and gutters ordered, as herein
provided, where the owner fails to do so, shall be under the supervision and
done to the satisfaction of the city engineer. The total cost of all sidewalks,
curbs and gutters constructed by the city, or that may be constructed or
repaired by the city engineer, in accordance with the orders of the commission,
or in the maintenance of sidewalks, curbs and gutters (which total cost shall
include any notice, grade, blocking, handrailing, private crossing,
administrative design, construction costs, and all other necessary
expenditures), shall be certified by the city engineer to the treasurer, who
shall transmit forthwith a copy thereof to the owner of the property
immediately abutting upon said sidewalk, curb and gutter, or to his agent,
lessee, or tenant, either by mailing or delivering the same, which total cost
of construction must be paid within one month from the date thereof and if not
paid within said time, the same shall become a lien or assessment against the
property abutting upon such sidewalk, curb and gutter. The costs may be
amortized and will bear interest over the term as determined by the commission.
(Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-8: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS:
Whenever any sidewalk, curb and gutter which is now, or which may by reason of
natural deterioration or decay, or by reason of unevenness, rapid slopes or
from any cause whatever, becomes unfit or unsafe for public travel, or
dangerous to the public safety, the city engineer shall require the owner of
the premises abutting such sidewalk, curb and gutter, or his agent, to
immediately repair the same, and in the case of his refusal or neglect to
comply with such requisition, or in case no one can be found upon whom to serve
such notice to repair such sidewalk, curb and gutter, such sidewalk, curb and
gutter shall be immediately removed, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly
built by the city engineer, or such other form of relief as may be required to
make the same fit for public travel as in his judgment may be most expedient,
and the cost thereof shall be a lien or assessment upon the property abutting
upon such sidewalk, curb and gutter, and may be enforced or the amount may be
recovered against the owner by a suit before any court of competent
jurisdiction, or may be assessed and collected as a special tax against such
property as in other cases and in accordance with sections 7-14-4109 and 7-14-
4110, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-9: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
None of the duties or privileges imposed or conferred by the provisions of this
chapter shall in any way be deemed to authorize or allow the obstruction of any
street, either during or after any work within the right of way, except under
permit therefor. No material removed from any construction site shall be placed
upon any portion of any adjacent street, alley, place or square, except when a
permit therefor has been granted. All refuse, lumber and debris remaining after
the completion of any repairs or renewal shall be removed from the street
forthwith, and any owner, lessee or tenant of abutting property who shall fail
to remove any such obstruction from any street, place or square within forty
eight (48) hours after being notified by the city engineer so to do, shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed therefor; and in such case of failure to remove
obstructions after such notice the city engineer shall cause the same to be
removed and shall charge the full cost of such removal to such owner, lessee or
tenant, and the said charge shall become a lien or assessment upon said
abutting property, and shall be collected as hereinbefore provided for the
collection of cost of construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting the existing powers of
the city with reference to the maintenance or control of sidewalks, curbs and
gutters. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
7-4-10: PRESERVATION OF BRICK SIDEWALKS:
   A.   In the area bounded by Benton Avenue on its east side, Hauser Boulevard
on its north side, Hayes Street on its west side including the 800 block of
Holter and Clarke Street on its south side, no existing brick sidewalks shall
be replaced with concrete without notifying the public works director of the
city. The person removing a brick sidewalk or part thereof, in the area just
described, shall store the removed brick for a period of ten (10) days after
notifying the public works director of the city. If said bricks are not picked
up by the city at the end of said ten (10) day period, the person removing said
brick sidewalk or part thereof can dispose of the bricks as he/she sees fit.
   B.   The property owner abutting the brick sidewalk shall be responsible for
major repairs and maintenance, including leveling and resetting brick. In
addition, the abutting property owner is responsible for snow removal,
cleaning, trimming of grass, minor maintenance and controlling root growth to
the extent possible to deter brick upheaval. (Ord. 2248, 3-29-1982)
   C.   For driveways across a brick sidewalk for garage access, concrete may
be used in that area for the driveway, limited by the width of the driveway, in
accordance with construction specifications contained in chapter 5 of this
title. (Ord. 2546, 6-4-1990)
   D.   The entire cost of the improvement to the brick sidewalk in the area
above described will be borne by the abutting property owner. (Ord. 2248, 3-29-
1982)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION OF CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
7-5-1:   Purpose
7-5-2:   Definitions
7-5-3:   Permit Required
7-5-4:   Consent Of Property Owner Required
7-5-5:   Fees
7-5-6:   City To Furnish Inspector
7-5-7:   Allowable Curb Cut Lengths
7-5-8:   Regulations General
7-5-9:   Restrictions
7-5-10:   Deviation
7-5-11:   Violation
7-5-12:   Application Of Chapter
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to standardize, regulate and control the
location, size, type, construction, maintenance and quantity of curb cuts,
driveway aprons, and sidewalk driveway crossings in the city from the
standpoint of proper design, safe and efficient entry to and exit from city
streets to private property, safety of vehicular traffic in the streets and
safety of pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk area. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ALLEY: A narrow public thoroughfare, providing access to the rears of the
abutting property.
   ALLEY APPROACH: A curb cut and driveway apron at each end of the alley
intended to benefit all property in the entire block.
   CURB CUT: That portion of the street curbing that is removed excluding curb
return to provide ingress or egress from abutting property.
   CURB OPENING: The total street curbing that is removed to place a curb cut
and slopes.
   CURB RETURN: The curved portion of a street curb at drive approaches.
   DRIVEWAY: That area on private property which solely serves a building, such
as a house or garage, where vehicles are operated, parked or allowed to stand,
and which area is less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length.
   DRIVEWAY APRON: The area, construction or improvement between the curb
opening or proposed curb line and the back edge of walk or proposed walk.
   INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if not, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
which join each other at, or approximately at right angles, or the area within
which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any other angle may
come in conflict.
   PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Public property dedicated for streets, alleys or other public
uses.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed and customarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
   SHOPPING CENTER: An area of land consisting of three (3) or more facilities
to service daily living needs of people, with integrated access and off street
parking area.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between curb lines or the outer lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of the right of way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, vehicles and other conveyances, either singly or
together, while using any street, alley or roadway for purposes of travel.
(Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974; amd. Ord. 2387-A, 3-24-1986; Ord. 2547, 4-9-1990)
7-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to cut, break, remove or alter any curbing, driveway apron, or
sidewalk or cause to have cut, broken or removed any curbing, driveway apron or
sidewalk, or to install or cause to have installed any driveway on any public
right of way in the city without a permit.
Permit shall be issued only to the owner, agent or properly licensed
contractors by the city engineering department after payment of fees as
provided in section
7-4-4 of this title.
At the time the permit application is made, the city engineer shall be aware of
any parking meters, traffic or street signs, signal poles, streetlight poles,
fire plugs or obstructions that will be affected by the placement or removal of
the driveway or sidewalk. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-4: CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER REQUIRED:
Before a permit is granted for the removal of the curb and the construction of
a driveway on any street having portland cement concrete curbs construction
thereon, the applicant for the driveway permit must produce evidence
satisfactory of the city engineer to show that the construction of such
driveway is agreeable to and in accordance with the desire of the owners of the
property to which such driveway will be entrance. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-5: FEES:
There shall be a fee for inspection testing and to set line and grade for up to
two (2) alley and/or drive approaches. For more than two (2) approaches there
will be an additional charge. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
The city, county, state or the United States Of America shall be exempt from
the paying of any fee for any building.
Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter is started or
proceeded with prior to obtaining said permit, the fees above specified shall
be doubled. Any work completed to this point can be ordered removed if it does
not comply with city specifications. The payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter
in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
The treasurer shall keep a permanent, accurate account of all fees and other
monies collected and received under this chapter, the names of the persons upon
whose account the same were paid, the date and amount thereof, and the location
of the work area or premises to which they relate. (Ord. 2547, 4-9-1990)
7-5-6: CITY TO FURNISH INSPECTOR:
The city engineer shall furnish an inspector to inspect every piece of curb,
driveway and driveway apron to be constructed whose duties shall be to check
the forms for alignment, grade and materials and to see that work is done in
accordance with the specifications of the city at the time of the issuance of
the permit. The city engineer shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours
in advance that the time of work is proposed to be started. Refer to section
7-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974; amd. Ord. 2547, 4-9-1990)
7-5-7: ALLOWABLE CURB CUT LENGTHS:
   A.   In single-family residence districts (R-1, R-2) the maximum curb cut
length shall be twenty four feet (24') and shall be located in accordance with
city specifications or drawings.
   B.   In medium density residential districts (R-3) the maximum curb cut
length shall not exceed thirty feet (30') and shall be located in accordance
with city specifications or drawings. The minimum distance between curb
openings shall be twenty five feet (25').
   C.   The residential-office, neighborhood business, highway business,
central business and commercial-light manufacturing districts the maximum curb
cut length shall not exceed forty feet (40') and shall be located in accordance
with city specifications and drawings. The minimum distance between curb
openings shall be twenty five feet (25').
   D.   In all allowable curb cut lengths, no curb cut shall be less than
twelve feet (12').
   E.   Frontage of sixty feet (60') or less shall be limited to one curb cut
with not more than two (2) curb cuts to be provided to any single tract or
business establishment, except where the property frontage exceeds six hundred
feet (600'). (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-8: REGULATIONS GENERAL:
Every curb cut and driveway apron constructed or altered in the street right of
way shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   No curb cut shall be constructed closer than ten feet (10') from the
side property line except in residential zones or as may be regulated by city
specifications in effect at the time of such work.
   B.   No curb cut shall be closer than five feet (5') to, nor shall it be so
located as to interfere with intersecting sidewalks, utility facilities, light
standards, fire hydrants, catch basin, street signs, signals or other public
improvements or installations.
   C.   Any necessary adjustments to such utility facilities, light standards,
fire hydrants, catch basins, street signs, signals, underground conduits for
street lighting, fire alarms or other public improvements or installations
shall be accomplished without cost to the city.
   D.   No curb opening shall be made between the points of curvature of any
curvature at intersections, or closer than ten feet (10') from the said point
of curvature, or between the points of curvature of any curb return of short
radius if deemed hazardous by the city engineer.
   E.   No curb cut or driveway apron shall be located so as to create a hazard
to pedestrians or motorists, or to invite or compel illegal or unsafe traffic
movements.
   F.   Every curb cut and/or driveway apron must provide complete access to a
parking space, building or loading dock on private property requiring the
entrance of vehicles.
   G.   In R-O, R-3 commercial and industrial off site parking lots, the
designs shall be such that vehicles egressing shall not be required to back out
into a roadway or driving lane. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
   H.   All curb cuts and driveway aprons are to be constructed of Portland
cement concrete of a quality and type as specified by the city engineer, and in
accordance with city specifications in effect at the time of such work. Curb
cuts shall be permitted only with construction of adjoining Portland cement
concrete aprons having a minimum depth of five feet (5').
   I.   All work shall be done under the supervision of the city engineer and
in accordance with city specifications in effect at the time of such work.
(Ord. 2547, 4-9-1990)
   J.   The licensed contractor, owner or his agent doing the construction or
alteration work shall maintain the premises in a safe manner and shall provide
adequate barricades and lights at his own expense to protect the safety of the
public using the adjacent streets or sidewalks, and shall hold the city free
from any damages incurred by his operations.
   K.   The angle between any driveway and the street and/or curb line shall be
ninety degrees (90°) to the street tangent or on a radial line to the street
curve.
   L.   The two (2) side borders of each driveway apron between the curb line
and property line shall be parallel.
   M.   City street rights of way may not be used for private or commercial
purposes. A permit for the construction of a curb cut driveway shall not be
issued unless vehicles which will use said driveway can be parked entirely
within the private property lines.
   N.   Any curb cut or driveway apron which has become abandoned or unused
through a change of the conditions for which it was originally intended shall
be closed and the owner shall replace any curb cut and/or driveway apron with a
standard curb and sidewalk (if necessary) to be constructed according to the
city's specifications in effect at the time of such work. In the event the
owner does not make such replacement within sixty (60) days after notice, the
city may do so at the expense of said owner. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
   O.   Cost of alley approaches will be assessed against all properties within
the block served by the alley according to the ratio of each property's square
footage to the total square footage within the block.
   P.   The property owner is responsible for installation and maintenance of
drive approaches. (Ord. 2547, 4-9-1990)
7-5-9: RESTRICTIONS:
In addition to the general regulations prescribed in section
7-5-8 of this chapter, curb cuts and driveway aprons to be constructed or
altered in all zoning districts must conform to the following:
   A.   Where a property abuts more than one city street and/or alley, the
maximum curb cut permitted on each street and/or alley shall be considered
separately and shall be governed by the frontage of the property on that street
and/or alley only.
   B.   Two (2) or more curb cuts serving the same property must be separated
by islands with full height curb not less than twenty five feet (25') long.
   C.   Where a property width is sixty feet (60') or less, joint curb cut with
an adjoining property of sixty feet (60') or less may be constructed at a
maximum width of thirty feet (30'). Both property owners must be in agreement
to a joint curb cut. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-10: DEVIATION:
Permission to deviate from the requirements and regulations of this chapter
shall be granted by the city manager subject to review by the city commission
only where unusual conditions or strict adherence to this chapter would cause
undue and extreme hardship. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-11: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and/or imprisonment in the city-county jail for not more than six (6)
months, or any combination of such fine and imprisonment. Every day of such
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
7-5-12: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall apply to all future construction, curb cuts, driveway
aprons, and sidewalk driveway crossings in the city. Presently existing
construction in the process or contracted for presently are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1937, 10-7-1974)
CHAPTER 6
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-6-1:   Buildings To Be Numbered
7-6-2:   City Manager Or His Designated Representative To Designate Numbers
7-6-3:   Refusal To Number
7-6-4:   Change Of Address
7-6-5:   Street Signs
7-6-1: BUILDINGS TO BE NUMBERED:
All buildings fronting on public streets, avenues and highways in the city
shall be numbered in conformity with the following provisions:
   A.   Odd And Even Numbers, How Fixed: Odd numbers shall be given to
buildings on the east and on the south sides of the streets, avenues and
highways; and even numbers to those on the west and on the north sides of the
same.
   B.   North And South Streets: On streets, avenues, and highways running
northerly or southerly in the city, the numbering commences with number one at
a north/south baseline lying along Broadway, Edwards Street, former Edwards
Street, Ming Place and Ming Street. The numbering increases in each direction
from the north/south baseline one hundred (100) numbers for each block or space
between streets. To distinguish such numbers, the streets, avenues, and
highways lying north of, running primarily at right angles with, and crossing
the north/south baseline are designated as "North", such as North Park Avenue
and North Warren Street; and the streets, avenues, and highways lying south of
the north/south baseline are designated as "South", such as South Park Avenue
and South Warren Street. Any street, avenue, or highway that is a north and
south street under this section, but changes to an easterly direction at
Montana Avenue and continues to run east thereafter is, at that point,
considered to be an east/west street and will be designated as "East".
   C.   East And West Streets: On streets, avenues, and highways running
easterly or westerly in the city, the numbering commences with number one at an
east/west baseline lying along Last Chance Gulch from its southerly most point
to its intersection with Lyndale Avenue and continuing at the east line of the
Capital Hill Addition projected southerly to its intersection with Lyndale
Avenue and projected northerly to its intersection with Custer Avenue. The
numbering increases in each direction from said east/west baseline one hundred
(100) numbers for each block or space between streets. To distinguish such
numbers, the streets, avenues, and highways lying east of, running primarily at
right angles to, and crossing the east/west baseline are designated as "East",
such as East Lawrence Street and East 15th Street; and the streets, avenues,
and highways lying west of the east/west baseline are designated as "West",
such as West Lawrence Street and West 15th Street.
   D.   Custer Avenue And Streets North Of Custer Avenue: On streets, avenues,
and highways running east or west, north of and including Custer Avenue, the
numbering commences with number one from an east/west baseline starting at the
section corner common to sections 13, 14, 23, and 24, township 10 north, range
4 west, and lying along the common section line between sections 13 and 14. The
numbering increases in each direction from said east/west baseline one hundred
(100) numbers for each block or space between streets. Except for Custer
Avenue, to distinguish such numbers, the streets, avenues, and highways lying
east of, running primarily at right angles to, and crossing the east/west
baseline are designated as "East", such as East Lincoln Road; and the streets,
avenues, and highways lying west are designated as being "West", such as West
Lincoln Road. For Custer Avenue, the numbering increases from said east/west
baseline, but the designation of Custer as either East or West commences at
Montana Avenue. (Ord. 3024, 5-9-2005)
   E.   Visibility: Building numbers must contrast with their background and
must be plainly visible and legible from the adjacent street frontage. Numbers
must be permanently affixed on buildings except as provided in this section or
when the city manager or the manager's designated representative has approved
an alternate location.
   F.   Fences: A fence, wall, or hedge located on a property's front yard may
not exceed forty two inches (42") in height, as measured from grade level of
the fronting street, unless the property owner has placed on the street side of
the fence, wall, or a separate post the street address numbers of any building
located behind the fence, wall, or hedge. The street address numbers displayed
must be readily visible to identify the property to emergency response
providers. (Ord. 3098, 4-7-2008)
7-6-2: CITY MANAGER OR HIS DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE TO DESIGNATE NUMBERS:
The city manager or his designated representative shall designate the numbers
of all buildings in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, allowing
one number for about twenty five feet (25') of vacant ground, and shall furnish
the owner of each building, now or hereafter built, with its proper number, as
soon as completed. When any building is not correctly numbered, or not numbered
at all, the city manager or his designated representative shall give such
building its proper number, and require the same to be put on such building at
the expense of the owner. (Ord. 2894, 4-10-2000)
7-6-3: REFUSAL TO NUMBER:
In case any owner or occupant, after having been requested to do so by the city
manager or his designated representative, shall refuse or neglect for ten (10)
days to number a building as required, or shall number or attempt to number
such building otherwise than in conformity with this chapter, and the
requirements of the said city manager or his designated representative, such
person shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accordance with the
provisions of title 1, chapter 3 of this code; and when such fine is paid the
said city manager or his designated representative shall cause such building to
be correctly numbered at the expense of the owner or occupant. (Ord. 2894, 4-
10-2000)
7-6-4: CHANGE OF ADDRESS:
In order to change an already existing address, an individual must:
   A.   File a written application with the city building department for any
requested change of address, which change shall only be made after a showing of
good cause.
   B.   At the time of filing such written application, the applicant shall pay
a change of address fee in an amount to be established by the city commission
after public hearing. (Ord. 2729, 12-5-1994)
7-6-5: STREET SIGNS:
The city manager or his designated representative shall, at the expense of the
city, cause good and substantial signs, bearing the names of the streets,
avenues and highways in the city, respectively, to be put up and maintained
upon at least one of the corners at each crossing of all streets, avenues and
highways. Such signs shall be so placed as to be in plain view of persons
passing either way upon any of said streets; provided, that where there are no
buildings at or near such crossing, or the streets are not opened up or graded,
the city manager or his designated representative may delay the putting up of
such signs until such time as he may deem it necessary, or until he shall be
directed to do so by the commission. (Ord. 2894, 4-10-2000)
CHAPTER 7
NUISANCE VEGETATION
SECTION:
7-7-1:   Title
7-7-2:   Intent
7-7-3:   Definitions
7-7-4:   Nuisance Vegetation To Be Cut
7-7-5:   Noxious Weeds Prohibited
7-7-6:   Notice Of Violation
7-7-7:   Violation
7-7-8:   Enforcement By City; Costs
7-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the NUISANCE VEGETATION ORDINANCE FOR
THE CITY OF HELENA. (Ord. 2558, 6-4-1990; amd. Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-2: INTENT:
To control, to a reasonable degree vegetation that constitutes a physical
danger to people or property, or visual obstruction for pedestrians or
vehicles.
It is not the intent of this section to require the control or maintenance of
native plant communities in areas not disturbed by development or in
undisturbed areas to which equipment access is restricted by topography unless
those areas pose an imminent physical danger to people or property, or visual
obstruction for pedestrians or vehicles. (Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural. The
words "shall" and "must" are mandatory and not merely directory.
   BOARD: Lewis and Clark County weed district board.
   DEPARTMENT: City of Helena parks and recreation department.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS: Any weed defined and designated as a noxious weed under title
7, chapter 22, part 21, Montana Code Annotated.
   NUISANCE VEGETATION: All vegetation that constitutes an imminent physical
danger to people or property or visual obstruction for pedestrians or vehicles.
(Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-4: NUISANCE VEGETATION TO BE CUT:
All property owners shall cut nuisance vegetation on their premises and the
one-half (1/2) of any alley or street lying next to their property, and the
boulevard abutting thereon. When cutting of nuisance vegetation is not
sufficient to prevent physical danger to people or property the nuisance
vegetation must be removed. (Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-5: NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Noxious weeds are prohibited on all property within the corporate
limits of the city.
   B.   The department, upon determination that a property within the corporate
limits of the city contains noxious weeds, shall forward the name and mailing
address of the property owner and the description of the property where the
violation exists to the board. (Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When nuisance vegetation is found on property or the adjacent alley, street, or
boulevard in violation of this chapter, the city will send a written notice of
violation to the property owner informing the owner of the violation and
advising the owner that the nuisance vegetation must be cut, or removed if
necessary, within fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
If the nuisance vegetation is not cut or removed within that period, the
property owner is subject to the penalties in this chapter. (Ord. 3158, 7-9-
2012)
7-7-7: VIOLATION:
Violations of this chapter may subject the property owner to a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment in the county jail for a
period no more than thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
3158, 7-9-2012)
7-7-8: ENFORCEMENT BY CITY; COSTS:
If the property owner does not cut or remove the nuisance vegetation following
a conviction, the city may take whatever reasonable action is necessary to cut
or remove the offending vegetation. The costs of such cutting or removal may be
assessed against the property by the commission. (Ord. 3158, 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 8
SNOW AND ICE
SECTION:
7-8-1:   Snow And Ice Removal From Sidewalks
7-8-2:   Definitions
7-8-3:   Emergency Snow Route Parking Prohibited
7-8-4:   Towing Of Vehicles On Emergency Snow Routes
7-8-5:   Parking Of Trailers, Recreational Vehicles, And Boats; Towing
7-8-6:   Emergency Snow Routes; Establishment; Signs
7-8-7:   Unlawful Sight Obstruction
7-8-8:   Unlawful Hazard To Pedestrians Or Automobiles
7-8-9:   Unlawful Hazard To Drivers
7-8-1: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Every owner of property within the City fronting on or abutting a paved
or brick sidewalk on public rights-of-way must remove and clear away, or cause
to be removed and cleared away, any snow or ice from that portion of the
sidewalk in front of or abutting their property, from all portions of abutting
ADA curb ramps and bulb outs, and from driveway aprons on rights-of-way that
must be crossed for pedestrian travel, according to the following standards:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section and regardless of
the manner in which the snow or ice is deposited on sidewalks, all snow and ice
must be removed from sidewalks on public rights-of-way in the B-2 and B-
3 Zoning Districts within the City by nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the next
business day, by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of the next nonbusiness day, or
within four (4) business hours after any snow or ice deposit, whichever period
is shorter.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section and regardless of
the manner in which the snow or ice is deposited, all snow and ice must be
removed from sidewalks on public rights-of-way within the City within twenty
four (24) hours after the cessation of snowfall or other cause of the
accumulation.
   B.   In the event the Director of Transportation Systems determines snow or
ice on a sidewalk cannot be reasonably removed, the Director of Transportation
Systems may require the use of sand or other suitable substance to make
pedestrian travel reasonably safe. This requirement must be complied with
within the time set forth in subsection A of this section. In event of such a
requirement, the sidewalk must be thoroughly cleaned of the sand or any other
substance as soon as weather permits.
   C.   Should any person fail to clear away or treat with sand or other
suitable substance and subsequently clear away any snow or ice from any
sidewalk as required within the above prescribed time frames, the Director of
Transportation Systems may, as soon as practicable after such failure, have the
sidewalk cleared.
   D.   The Director of Transportation Systems shall record the name of the
property owners, the legal description and street address of the properties,
the exact dates and costs of all snow removal done in accordance with this
section, including, but not limited to, the costs of private contractors hired
for such purpose, and any administrative costs.
   E.   Each property owner who fails to clear any sidewalk as required herein
and causes the City to perform the clearing in accordance with this section
shall be liable to the City for the cost of such work, plus a civil penalty of
fifty dollars ($50.00), or thirty percent (30%) of such costs, whichever is
greater.
   F.   The Director of Transportation Systems shall give property owners
written notice of amounts owed to the City as soon as practicable following
completion of the work. All property owners fronting or abutting public
sidewalks who receive such written notification are responsible for payment
within thirty (30) days of the date of the written notification.
   G.   The City Manager shall develop a program allowing all property owners
billed in accordance with subsection F of this section to appeal said bills.
Property owners wishing to appeal must submit appeals to the City Manager
within fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice required in subsection F of
this section.
   H.   If any fronting or abutting property owner fails to pay the City for
costs incurred by the City and the civil penalty, the payment of such amounts
may be enforced through civil collection lawsuits or by levying an assessment
on the fronting or abutting property or both. In the event of assessment, the
City Commission shall annually adopt a resolution levying an assessment and tax
against each property fronting or abutting the sidewalks ordered cleared by the
Director of Transportation Systems in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. All assessments levied must be charged simple interest at the rate of
ten percent (10%) per year from the date the work is performed until the
assessment is fully paid and satisfied.
   I.   For purposes of this chapter the term "sidewalk" means the portion of
any public right-of-way intended for the use of pedestrians. This term does not
include asphalt bicycle-pedestrian paths. (Ord. 3210, 6-15-2015; amd. Ord.
3287, 2-22-2021)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Means a motor home, travel trailer, or camper.
   VEHICLE: Means a device in, on, or by which any person or property may be
transported but does not include recreational vehicles. (Ord. 3243, 10-29-2018)
7-8-3: EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTE PARKING PROHIBITED:
To allow for snow plowing and snow removal on City streets, whenever two inches
(2") or more of snow is predicted to accumulate by the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, vehicles may not be parked on designated emergency
snow routes between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. Parking on Benton Avenue between West Lyndale Avenue and Bishop
Carroll Drive, East Broadway between North California Street and Saddle Drive,
and East Broadway between North Montana Avenue and North Sanders Street, on 6th
Avenue between North Montana Avenue and North Roberts Street is permitted
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. but
is prohibited from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord.
3243, 10-29-2018; amd. Ord. 3287, 2-22-2021)
7-8-4: TOWING OF VEHICLES ON EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES:
All vehicles parked on designated emergency snow routes during prohibited hours
whenever two inches (2") or more of snow is predicted to accumulate may be
towed and stored at the expense of the registered owner of the vehicle. (Ord.
3243, 10-29-2018)
7-8-5: PARKING OF TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AND BOATS; TOWING:
   A.   Unless a permit has been issued pursuant to
7-8-5(C) or (D), trailers, recreational vehicles, boats, or other stored items
may not be parked or stored within the public right-of-way between November 1
and April 15.
   B.   Any trailer, recreational vehicle, boat, or other stored items parked
or stored in violation of
7-8-5(A) may be towed and stored at the expense of the registered owner.
   C.   The City Manager has the authority to issue a permit to any contractor
working on an active construction project occurring within city limits that
will allow the contractor to park or store a construction trailer or trailers
within the public right-of-way between November 1 and April 15.
   D.   From November 1 to April 15, the City Manager has the authority to
issue a short-term permit to a person who, because of extraordinary
circumstances, has no option but to park a trailer, recreational vehicle, or
other stored item within the public right-of-way. The short-term permit will
allow the person to park the trailer, recreational vehicle, or other stored
item within the public right-of-way for up to seventy-two (72) hours. (Ord.
3243, 10-29-2018; amd. Ord. 3287, 2-22- 2021)
7-8-6: EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES; ESTABLISHMENT; SIGNS:
   A.   The following streets are hereby established and designated as
emergency snow routes within the City:
      1.   East-west streets:
         Broadway - Park Avenue to Colonial Drive.
         Helena Avenue - Last Chance Gulch to Railroad Avenue.
         6th Avenue - Park Avenue to Roberts Street.
         11th Avenue - Park Avenue to Montana Avenue.
      2.   North-south streets:
         Benton Avenue - Custer Avenue to Neill Avenue.
         California - 11th Avenue to Winne Street.
         Colonial - Fee Street to Broadway.
         Hannaford Street - Prospect Avenue to 11th Avenue.
         Henderson - Custer to LeGrande.
         Park Avenue - Neill Avenue to Cruse.
         Rodney - Helena Avenue to Broadway.
   B.   The Transportation Systems Department shall cause appropriate signs to
be installed along each of said streets designated as emergency snow routes.
(Ord. 3243, 10-29-2018; amd. Ord. 3287, 2-22-2021)
March 2021
7-8-7: UNLAWFUL SIGHT OBSTRUCTION:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, snow piles from the plowing or
removal of snow shall not be allowed to exceed a height of two and one-half
feet (21/2') from street grade for a distance of fifty feet (50') from an
intersection. (Ord. 2309, 7-11-1983)
7-8-8: UNLAWFUL HAZARD TO PEDESTRIANS OR AUTOMOBILES:
It shall be unlawful for any property owner or other person, business or
corporation to shovel, plow or place snow on public streets, highways, alleys
or sidewalks in such a manner as to create a hazard or potential hazard for
pedestrians or automobiles. (Ord. 2309, 7-11-1983)
7-8-9: UNLAWFUL HAZARD TO DRIVERS:
In no case may snow be piled or placed in such a manner that it impedes the
vision of a driver of a vehicle approaching a street, alley or driveway
intersection with another vehicle traveled area. (Ord. 2309, 7-11-1983)
CHAPTER 9
PEDESTRIAN MALL
SECTION:
7-9-1:   Short Title
7-9-2:   Vehicles Prohibited
7-9-3:   Vehicle, Construction Or Moving Permit Required
7-9-4:   Obstruction Of Emergency Lane Prohibited
7-9-5:   Parade, Special Event, And Vendors; Permit Required
7-9-6:   Traffic
7-9-7:   Bicycles Prohibited
7-9-8:   Sleeping Prohibited
7-9-9:   Littering Prohibited
7-9-10:   Defacing Property Prohibited
7-9-11:   Removal Of Snow And Ice
7-9-12:   Obstruction Prohibited
7-9-13:   Penalty
7-9-14:   Display
7-9-15:   Enforcement
7-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF HELENA MALL CHAPTER. Its provisions
apply to that portion of Last Chance Gulch between 6th Avenue and Broadway and
from Broadway south to the terminus of the mall at the Federal Building; to
that portion of Grand Street between Last Chance Gulch and Jackson Street.
(Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983)
7-9-2: VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
Except as specifically provided herein, no motor vehicle, except a self-
propelled wheelchair or scooter, may be operated, placed or maintained on the
pedestrian mall. Authorized emergency vehicles and City maintenance vehicles or
vehicles belonging to any public utility may be driven on the mall whenever an
emergency requires their presence, or whenever they are necessary in
construction or maintenance of any part of the mall or any utility lines
located therein. Vehicles driven by law enforcement agencies may be driven on
the mall for routine patrol purposes. (Ord. 3241, 9-10-2018)
7-9-3: VEHICLE, CONSTRUCTION OR MOVING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person or any agent, officer or contractor for any person which owns or
occupies land or improvements on or adjacent to the mall may, by applying to
the City Manager or his designee in writing therefor, twenty four (24) hours in
advance of the proposed use of the mall, obtain a permit to have vehicles or
construction machinery on the mall for construction purposes or for moving
furniture, supplies, building materials, equipment or merchandise to or from
the premises owned or occupied by the applicant. The City Manager or his
designee may, in his discretion, deny said permit or may attach any conditions
to the permit that he, in his discretion, deems appropriate, including, but not
limited to, the time or times of day or night, the period of time, the area on
the mall, and the type and number of vehicles for which such permit shall be
valid, and the route of ingress and egress to be used. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983)
7-9-4: OBSTRUCTION OF EMERGENCY LANE PROHIBITED:
No person conducting a sale in the mall pursuant to a right- of-way use permit
shall place or suffer to be placed merchandise, wares, displays or other
materials on the emergency lane within the mall, to the end that the same
remain open at all times for emergency vehicular traffic. (Ord. 3107, 3-9-2009)
7-9-5: PARADE, SPECIAL EVENT, AND VENDORS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A permit is required from the Parks and Recreation Department to
conduct or hold a parade, special event, or sell any merchandise or food or
beverages on the pedestrian mall. Application for a parade, special event, or
vendor permit must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to the start of the
parade, special event, or sale of any merchandise or food or beverages.
   B.   In order to cover costs of reviewing applications and issuing parade,
special event, or vendor permits, the applicant must pay a fee, as established
by the City Commission, at the time of application for a parade, special event,
or vendor permit.
   C.   The applicant for a vendor permit must indemnify, defend, and hold the
City and its employees and agents harmless against all claims, liability, loss,
damage, or expense incurred by the City due to any injury to or death of any
person or any damage to property caused by or resulting from the activities for
which the permit is granted. As evidence of the applicant's ability to perform
the conditions of the vendor permit, applicant will provide proof of
applicant's liability insurance issued by a reliable company or companies for
personal injury and property damage, in an amount not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
aggregate per year for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage,
with the City named as an additional insured.
   D.   The applicant for a parade, special event, or vendor permit in which
alcohol will be purchased and consumed must obtain an alcohol permit pursuant
to section
7-14-1 of this title.
   E.   The applicant for a parade, special event, or vendor permit in which
vehicles will be driven on the pedestrian mall must indemnify, defend, and hold
the City and its employees and agents harmless against all claims, liability,
loss, damage, or expense incurred by the City due to any injury to or death of
any person or any damage to property caused by or resulting from the activities
for which the permit is granted. As evidence of the applicant's ability to
perform the conditions of the vendor permit, applicant will provide proof of
applicant's liability insurance issued by a reliable company or companies for
personal injury and property damage, in an amount not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
aggregate per year for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage,
with the City named as an additional insured. No vehicles with a gross vehicle
weight rating or gross combination weight rating, or gross combination weight
of fourteen thousand (14,000) (exceeds Class 4) or more is permitted in
conjunction with a parade, special event, or vendor permit, unless such vehicle
is permitted through the Helena Parking Commission.
   F.   Exclusive uses of the pedestrian mall shall be reviewed pursuant to
section
7-13-5 of this title. (Ord. 3241, 9-10-2018)
7-9-6: TRAFFIC:
No motor vehicle traffic, other than as allowed by sections
7-9-2 through
7-9-5 of this chapter, is allowed on the downtown pedestrian mall unless the
use is first approved by a majority of voters voting in a regular or special
election of the City of Helena. (Initiative 2005-1, City election held 11-8-
2005)
7-9-7: BICYCLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall ride any bicycle, skateboard or other wheeled device or sled,
toboggan or device on runners on the mall, except this section shall not
prohibit the operation of wheelchairs by a disabled person on the mall, nor
shall it prevent such activities when a permit has been obtained therefor
pursuant to section
7-9-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City
election held 11-8-2005)
7-9-8: SLEEPING PROHIBITED:
No person shall sleep on the mall, or any part thereof, during hours of
darkness, nor shall any person place a camp or tent on any part of the mall at
any time. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City election held 11-
8-2005)
7-9-9: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall deposit or place or cause to be deposited or placed upon the
mall any debris, litter or garbage except in containers available for that
purpose. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City election held 11-
8-2005)
7-9-10: DEFACING PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall mar, damage, destroy, deface or in any way or manner injure any
building, light fixture, utility equipment, structure, monument, tree, shrub,
flower, flowerbed, playground, bench, decoration or any other object or thing
located on the mall. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City
election held 11-8-2005)
7-9-11: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
During the time of year when the fall of snow or rain creates or tends to
create slippery areas on the mall, it shall be the duty of every owner, lessee
or occupant of premises adjoining the mall to clear that portion of the mall
within a distance of five feet (5') of the common property boundary between the
mall right-of-way owned by the City and his parcel of snow or ice in a timely
manner. No person shall use chemicals for ice or snow removal, except as such
chemicals are approved by the City Manager or his designee. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-
1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City election held 11-8-2005)
7-9-12: OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
No person shall place or cause to be placed any obstruction, merchandise,
equipment or other materials or things on the mall or any part thereof, except
pursuant to use of a permit obtained pursuant to the provisions of section
7-9-3 or
7-9-5 of this chapter or chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 3107, 3-9-2009)
7-9-13: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this chapter shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in addition
thereto, may be confined in the City Jail for a period not to exceed ninety
(90) days. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City election held
11-8-2005)
7-9-14: DISPLAY:
All permits issued hereunder shall be conspicuously displayed by the holder
thereof. (Ord. 2295, 2-28-1983; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City election held 11-
8-2005)
7-9-15: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be enforced by the Helena Police Department and the Helena
Parking Commission. (Ord. 2666, 4-12-1993; amd. Initiative 2005-1, City
election held 11-8-2005)
CHAPTER 10
BOULEVARD LANDSCAPING AND PUBLIC TREES
SECTION:
7-10-1:   Purpose
7-10-2:   Definitions
7-10-3:   Cutting Or Damaging Public Trees Prohibited
7-10-4:   Boulevard Tree Work Permit Required
7-10-5:   Boulevard Landscaping And Trees
7-10-6:   Protection Of Trees During Construction
7-10-7:   Penalties
7-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to recognize the value of city trees and
boulevard landscaping as an important part of the community's infrastructure by
managing and promoting responsible care of community trees using best
management practices to sustain a vibrant, healthy, and safe community forest
resource for the benefit of Helena's residents, visitors, and ecosystem. (Ord.
3194, 8-18-2014)
7-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   BOULEVARD TREES: Trees planted in the area between the back of the curb and
the edge of the sidewalk.
   DEPARTMENT: The city of Helena's parks and recreation department.
   MAJOR PRUNING: Cutting or removing any portion of a tree that endangers the
life of the tree, the structural integrity of the tree, or considerably changes
the tree's form or appearance.
   MINOR PRUNING: Any cutting of a tree that is not major pruning.
   PRUNE: Cutting away unwanted parts of a plant.
   PUBLIC TREES: Trees planted on city owned property. (Ord. 3194, 8-18-2014)
7-10-3: CUTTING OR DAMAGING PUBLIC TREES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to prune, cut, damage, or remove public trees,
except as permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 3194, 8-18-2014)
7-10-4: BOULEVARD TREE WORK PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Only persons with a city issued tree work permit may perform major
pruning or remove a boulevard tree.
   B.   A boulevard tree work permit may be issued by the department to an
applicant if the following qualifications are met:
      1.   The applicant is, or has an employee who is, an arborist certified
through the International Society Of Arboriculture; and
      2.   Has not been found in violation of any requirements of this code;
and
      3.   Agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the city and its employees and
agents harmless against all claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense
incurred by the city due to any injury to or death of any person or any damage
to property caused by or resulting from the activities for which the tree work
permit is granted. As evidence of the applicant's ability to perform the
conditions of the permit, the applicant shall furnish a policy or certificate
for comprehensive general liability insurance with the city named as an
additional insured. Such certificate of insurance shall be in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per claim or occurrence. A copy of the most
current policy or certificate must be filed with the city clerk.
   C.   The city may revoke a tree work permit if the permittee violates any of
the provisions of this chapter or any part of the Helena arboricultural
standards.
   D.   This section does not apply to the removal of a dead boulevard tree by
the adjacent property owner within three (3) years of the initial planting and
the tree is immediately replaced with a new, living tree. (Ord. 3194, 8-18-
2014)
7-10-5: BOULEVARD LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
   A.   All persons owning abutting property are responsible for planting trees
and landscaping in the boulevard in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Except as provided below, boulevards must be planted with living and
healthy species of trees as specified in the Helena arboricultural standards,
and contain no less than sixty percent (60%) live vegetative cover. If this
live vegetative cover consists entirely of plants that do not require
supplemental water or irrigation once established, or consists entirely of
plants that are native to Lewis And Clark County, then those areas may contain
as little as fifty percent (50%) live vegetative cover. The projected drip line
of an average shrub, bush, or tree of that species at five (5) years of age may
be used in calculating minimum vegetative coverage. The remainder of the area
may be covered in inorganic materials that are permeable to water. The
landscaping may not create any unsafe condition for the public using the right
of way.
      2.   For those areas where there is curb only, or where a curb type
sidewalk has been installed, or where portions of the right of way are between
the sidewalk and property line, the right of way must be landscaped and
maintained as an integral part of the adjacent property owner's landscape.
      3.   Boulevard trees must be planted within eighteen (18) months from the
date of the certificate of occupancy for the primary structure on the adjacent
property. A tree permit is required from the department prior to planting
boulevard trees.
      4.   Only trees that comply with the Helena arboricultural standards may
be planted in the boulevard.
      5.   Permeable pavers or a permeable surface designed to support street
legal vehicles may be installed for parking purposes, stormwater diversion, and
irrigation in any boulevard that has been appropriately designated by the city
as allowable parking space, subject to approval by the public works department.
Areas designated for permeable pavers or surface as described above will not be
included when calculating organic coverage requirements.
      6.   Water collection systems to utilize stormwater for tree irrigation
may be installed in any boulevard subject to approval by the public works
department for installation and maintenance, with the cost of maintenance to be
borne by the abutting property owner.
   B.   The abutting property owner is required to maintain boulevard
landscaping and boulevard trees by watering, fertilizing, and performing minor
pruning of boulevard trees according to the Helena arboricultural standards.
Abutting property owners who elect to plant fruit trees are required to keep
the adjacent sidewalk, curb, gutter, and street cleared of fruit at all times.
(Ord. 3194, 8-18-2014)
7-10-6: PROTECTION OF TREES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
All public trees near any excavation or construction of any building,
structure, or street work, must be evaluated by the department and protected if
possible. The department shall make recommendations for removal or protection
of trees, determine and establish tree protection areas, and monitor tree
health and conditions during and after construction. All management of trees
during construction must comply with the Helena arboricultural standards. (Ord.
3194, 8-18-2014)
7-10-7: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Any person who fails to comply
with the requirements of this chapter may, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation and other
alternative relief from the court as provided by law. (Ord. 3194, 8-18-2014)
CHAPTER 11
COMMUNITY DECAY
SECTION:
7-11-1:   Intent
7-11-2:   Definition
7-11-3:   Prohibitions
7-11-4:   Abandoned And Junk Vehicles
7-11-5:   Screening
7-11-6:   Mitigation
7-11-7:   Severability
7-11-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the control of "community decay",
caused by accumulation of rubble, debris, junk, or refuse, or buildings which
have become dilapidated through neglect or inattention, and establish
procedures for enforcement. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-2017)
7-11-2: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definition applies:
   PUBLIC VIEW: Any area visible from a point up to six feet (6') above the
surface of the center of a public roadway or right-of-way. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-
2017)
7-11-3: PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful to own, maintain, or allow the following conditions within
public view:
   A.   Accumulation, storing, dumping, or piling of rubble, debris, junk,
refuse, or any other material unless the material is stacked in neat piles or
screened from public view.
   B.   Storing or accumulating of metal, machine parts, household appliances,
or other salvaged materials.
   C.   Storing or accumulating wrecked, ruined, or dismantled snowmobiles,
four wheelers, camp trailers, pedal bikes, motorbikes, and boats, or their
component parts.
   D.   Any building that has become dilapidated through neglect or inattention
to the extent the building endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or
any uncompleted building after its building permit has expired.
   E.   Any condition that results in property being infested by rodents,
vermin, or mosquitoes, or threatens or endangers the public health, welfare,
and safety.
   F.   The above prohibitions do not apply to properly permitted construction
or demolition projects during the time any necessary permits are in effect.
   G.   The above prohibitions do not apply to materials that are used in the
normal operation of a permitted use in the zoning district in which the
property is located.
   H.   The above prohibitions do not include normal residential maintenance or
landscaping projects. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-2017)
7-11-4: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES:
The removal of abandoned vehicles parked on City streets shall be handled
pursuant to subsection
8-11-1D of this Code and title 61, chapter 12, part 4 of Montana Code
Annotated. Junk vehicles shall be handled pursuant to section 75-10-501 et
seq., Montana Code Annotated. Junk vehicles, as defined by State law, located
on the property will be handled pursuant to State law and are not subject to
this chapter. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-2017)
7-11-5: SCREENING:
The above prohibitions may be lawful under this chapter if such prohibited
conditions are screened from public view in accordance with the following
standards and do not result in any condition whereby the property becomes
infested by rodents, vermin, or mosquitoes, or threatens or endangers the
public health, welfare, and safety.
   A.   Screening must be by a fence, wall, or vegetation that is no less than
three feet (3') in height when planted. The screening must be designed and
established so that no less than seventy five percent (75%) of any thirty six
(36) square foot portion of the entire screening is opaque. Only the first six
feet (6') in height is used to determine the area of the screening. The
opaqueness of vegetation used as screening is measured as of its growth in July
and after the third full growing season. Tarps or blankets are not acceptable
screening materials.
   B.   No more than one (1) nonvegetative screening material may be used on
any one (1) side of a screening barrier. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-2017)
7-11-6: MITIGATION:
The mitigation of the above prohibited conditions shall be accomplished under
the provisions of this section.
   A.   Within ten (10) days of receiving a written complaint that a prohibited
condition exists, the Community Development Department shall conduct an
inspection of the property alleged to be in violation of this chapter to
determine whether there is, in fact, a violation.
   B.   If it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter, the
Community Development Department shall notify the owner of the property of the
violation, in writing and by certified mail, and order the mitigation of the
violation or the submission of a plan for mitigation within thirty (30) days.
The notice of violation shall:
      1.   Include a statement specifically describing the violation;
      2.   Specify that the owner of the property has thirty (30) days from
receipt of such notice to bring the property into compliance or to submit a
plan to comply with this chapter by means of removal, screening, or mitigation
of the condition(s); and
      3.   Advise the owner of the property that if the violation is not
mitigated, the City may request the Municipal Court Judge to order mitigation
of the violation and if the owner fails to comply with that order, the owner
may be charged with contempt of court and the City will be authorized to enter
the property to effect the mitigation of the violation at the owner's expense.
   C.   The owner of the property may, after receipt of a notice of violation,
submit a plan of mitigation to the Community Development Department which shall
include:
      1.   The type of screening or mitigation to be undertaken;
      2.   The date for commencement of action, which shall not exceed a total
of ninety (90) days; and
      3.   The date for completion of the mitigation.
The Community Development Department may accept such a plan and defer further
proceedings under this chapter pending mitigation.
   D.   After thirty (30) days, or the date agreed to by the property owner and
the Community Development Department, the department shall determine whether
the violation has been mitigated.
   E.   When enforcing this chapter, the City shall pursue civil mitigation
procedures.
   F.   If the owner fails to act or the violation has not been mitigated, the
City Attorney may file a petition with the Municipal Court requesting an order
requiring the owner to mitigate the violation and, if the owner fails to
comply, authorizing the City to enter the property and mitigate the violation
at the owner's expense.
   G.   At the hearing so scheduled, both the property owner and the City shall
have the opportunity to give evidence. After the hearing, the Judge shall
determine if proper notification was made to the property owner and whether a
violation exists.
   H.   If the Judge finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a
violation does exist and that proper notification was given, the property owner
shall be ordered to mitigate the violation within a reasonable, specified time.
In addition, the Judge may authorize the City to enter the property and
mitigate the violation at the expense of the owner if the owner does not comply
with the court-ordered mitigation.
   I.   The City may bill the property owner for the actual costs of mitigation
performed by the City pursuant to court order. If the property owner fails to
reimburse the City, the City may seek a default judgment from the Helena
Municipal Court. (Ord. 3227, 5-8-2017)
7-11-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions which can be given effect without this invalid
provision. To this end, the provisions of this chapter are severable. (Ord.
3227, 5-8-2017)
CHAPTER 12
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-12-1:   Definitions
7-12-2:   Rules And Regulations For Parks
7-12-3:   Rules And Regulations For Natural Parks
7-12-4:   Development Activities Permitted
7-12-5:   Development Activities Prohibited
7-12-6:   Penalty
7-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
herein set forth:
   NATURAL PARK: A specific designation of a city park to ensure its natural
character in perpetuity. Mount Helena City Park has been designated, by
resolution, as a natural park.
   PARK: Includes playlots, neighborhood playgrounds, neighborhood parks,
community playfields, special use sites, conservancy areas, and greenspaces as
the same are defined on the park inventory classifications definitions list
which is available for review in the city's parks and recreation office. (Ord.
2762, 1-8-1996)
7-12-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PARKS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to all public "parks" as
defined above:
   A.   It is unlawful to camp or sleep overnight in any public park, park
walkway, boulevard, greenway, open space area, or beneath any public bridge
within or adjacent to any of the areas identified herein without the written
permission of the director of parks and recreation or his designated
representative.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to cause to be started or to
maintain any open fire of any nature in any public park, park walkway,
boulevard, greenway, open space area, or beneath any public bridge within or
adjacent to any of the areas identified herein. Hot coal fires for barbecuing
are permitted only in barbecue pits provided for that purpose.
   C.   It is unlawful to hunt, trap, gather firewood or use motor vehicles in
any public park except as specifically authorized.
   D.   No person shall swim or wade in any public pool in any park except
during regular hours open to the public.
   E.   No person shall hit golf balls, engage in archery, throw metal spears,
or otherwise cause the flight of dangerous projectiles in a public park.
   F.   No person shall use the tennis courts in any public park for purposes
other than the sport of tennis. No person shall hang on tennis nets, use street
shoes, operate motor vehicles on, or otherwise abuse the tennis courts in any
public park.
   G.   No person shall enter a public park or remain within a public park
while his or her privilege to use the public parks is suspended or rescinded.
(Ord. 2758, 11-27-1995)
7-12-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR NATURAL PARKS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to all "natural parks" as
defined above:
   A.   It is unlawful to camp or sleep overnight within the boundaries of any
natural park identified herein without the written permission of the director
of parks and recreation or his designated representative.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to cause to be started or to
maintain any open fire of any nature in any natural park identified herein. Hot
coal fires for barbecuing are permitted only in barbecue pits provided for that
purpose.
   C.   It is unlawful to hunt, trap, gather firewood or use motor vehicles in
any natural park except as specifically authorized.
   D.   No person shall enter a natural park or remain within a natural park
while his or her privilege to use the public parks is suspended or rescinded.
(Ord. 2762, 1-8-1996)
7-12-4: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES PERMITTED:
The following development activities are permitted within the boundaries of
Mount Helena City Park:
   A.   Improvements necessary to ensure safe public use of the park;
   B.   Resurfacing of access roads and Reeder's Village Drive parking area;
   C.   Installation of restrooms in the Reeder's Village Drive parking area;
   D.   Expansion of the Reeder's Village Drive parking area to the south and
east, if required by increased use;
   E.   Establishment of new unpaved hiking trails, maintenance and improvement
of existing unpaved hiking trails, and establishment of trails accessible to
people with disabilities consistent with the spirit of the Americans with
disabilities act;
   F.   Installing minimal signs and/or kiosks for trail identification, trail
interpretation and park protocol;
   G.   Fencing, gates and barriers along the park boundaries and parking area;
   H.   Fencing to limit use of eroding areas;
   I.   Planting, revegetation, restoration and management of native plants;
   J.   Access to and maintenance and replacement of existing structures at
present sizes and locations, including:
      1.   Power transmission lines;
      2.   Public radio antenna and communication equipment building;
      3.   Private television antenna and communication equipment building;
      4.   Woolston reservoir, fencing, and water lines; and
      5.   Picnic tables;
   K.   Weed management through use of biological, chemical and mechanical
methods consistent with the intent of this dedication to ensure the park's
natural character;
   L.   Forest management for the enhancement of the forest resources, wildlife
habitat, watershed protection and, specifically, thinning to promote growth,
habitat and diversity, fire protection/rescue, disease control, and harvesting
of trees that pose a hazard to people or property; and
   M.   Except as limited herein, any uses not inconsistent with the intent of
this dedication. (Ord. 2762, 1-8-1996)
7-12-5: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED:
The following development activities are prohibited within the boundaries of
Mount Helena City Park:
   A.   Creation of temporary or permanent roads;
   B.   Installation of utilities for water, sewer, electricity or cable;
   C.   Installation of additional communication towers, antenna towers or
dishes;
   D.   Clear cutting of timber;
   E.   Installation of any structure not expressly permitted by dedication;
   F.   Livestock grazing, except as permitted for weed management; and
   G.   Dumping of refuse, including any toxic or hazardous waste. (Ord. 2762,
1-8-1996)
7-12-6: PENALTY:
The following penalties may be imposed for violations of this chapter:
   A.   Any person violating any law in a public park or any of the rules and
regulations of the public parks may be ordered by any park personnel or law
enforcement officer to leave the park. Park personnel are authorized to make
such orders and, in flagrant cases, may suspend the privilege of any person to
use the public parks for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
   B.   In addition to the suspension of park privileges, any person violating
this chapter may be punished pursuant to section 1-3-1 of this code. (Ord.
2758, 11-27-1995)
CHAPTER 13
USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-13-1: Purpose And Intent
7-13-2: Prohibitions
7-13-3: Encroachments
7-13-4: Nonexclusive Right-Of-Way Use
7-13-5: Exclusive Right-Of-Way Use
7-13-6: Application Fee And Cost Reimbursement; For Cable And
Telecommunications Franchises And Agreements For The Use Of City Right-Of-Way
Or Other Property For Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-7: Definitions
7-13-8
: Business License Required
7-13-9
: Permit Required
7-13-10
: Applications For Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-11: Display Of Right-of-way Use Permit
7-13-12: Traffic Control Plan
7-13-13: Franchise Or Other Agreement Required
7-13-14: Lease Or Other Agreement Required
7-13-15: Applicability To Existing Franchise Ordinances, Agreements, Leases And
Permits
7-13-16: Relief
7-13-17: Other Remedies
7-13-18: Fees And Compensation Not A Tax
7-13-19: Nonexclusive Grant
7-13-20: Fee For Recovery Of City Costs:
7-13-21: Police Power
7-13-22: Regulation By The City
7-13-23: Codes
7-13-24: Location Of Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-25: Compliance With One-Number Locator Service
7-13-26: Minimize Interference With The Public Ways
7-13-27: Damage To Property
7-13-28: Notice Of Work
7-13-29: Maintenance Of Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-30: Relocation Or Removal Of Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-31: Moving Of A Building
7-13-32: Removal Of Unauthorized Telecommunications Facilities And Abandonment
7-13-33: Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-34: Damage To Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-35: Restoration Of Public Ways
7-13-36: Duty To Provide Information
7-13-37: Leased Capacity
7-13-38: Insurance
7-13-39: General Indemnification
7-13-40: Limitation On Damages
7-13-41: Security Fund
7-13-42: Construction Bond
7-13-43: Coordination Of Construction Activities
7-13-44: Assignment Or Transfer
7-13-45: Safety Requirements
7-13-46: Additional Ducts Or Conduits
7-13-47: Non-Complying Work
7-13-48: Completion Of Construction
7-13-49: Plans And Drawings
7-13-50: Restoration After Construction, Installation, Maintenance, Repair Or
Replacement
7-13-51: Landscape Restoration
7-13-52: Above-Ground Telecommunications Facilities
7-13-53: Cumulative Remedies
7-13-54: Severability
7-13-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the private use of
and encroachment upon public Rights-of-Way, and the intent of this Chapter is,
consistent with applicable laws, to:
   A.   Establish a local policy concerning the use of public ways and city
properties by Telecommunications providers;
   B.   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for the
exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of
Telecommunications providers;
   C.   Promote competition in telecommunications;
   D.   Minimize unnecessary local regulation of Telecommunications providers;
   E.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive Telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the city;
   F.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the city for
telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis;
   G.   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in
public trust by the city;
   H.   Assure that the city's current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating access to and the use of the public ways and city property are paid
for by the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
   I.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the city and the residents
of the city for permitting use of the public ways in accordance with federal
and state law;
   J.   Assure that all telecommunications providers constructing, repairing or
maintaining telecommunications facilities within the public ways comply with
the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city;
   K.   Assure that the city can continue to fairly and responsibly protect the
public health, safety and welfare; and
   L.   Enable the city to discharge its public trust consistent with rapidly
evolving federal and state legal and regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   A public Right-of-Way, including those used for pedestrian purposes,
may not be used for private commercial use except as permitted by this chapter.
   B.   An object, fixture, improvement, or structure may not be placed upon or
extended over a public Right-of-Way except as permitted by law.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-3: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.    The following encroachments and uses are allowed, without prior
approval by the city, on the portion of the Right-of-Way that is not presently
being used for installation of curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street paving,
driving surfaces, or any other public purpose.
      1.   Mailboxes installed in compliance with laws and regulations;
      2.   Postal drop boxes owned by the United States postal service;
      3.   Bicycle racks available for public use;
      4.   Irrigation systems;
      5.   Landscaping, including lawn ornamentation;
      6.   Retaining walls;
      7.   Fences;
      8.   Driveways approved by the city;
      9.   Walkways from the curb to the sidewalk;
      10.   Public utility lines, poles, and mains as allowed by right by law
      11.   Sandwich board signs. Sandwich board signs must be removed from the
public Right-of-Way at the close of business or end of the event each day;
      12.   Awnings and overhangs; and
      13.   Any portion of a structure, such as foundation, roof eaves, stoops,
and stairs, in existence as of December 9, 2019.
   B.   Encroachments permitted by this section are subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   Encroachments must comply with all other provisions of this city
code including any applicable building code requirements and permits.
      2.   Encroachments cannot impede the sight distance triangle as specified
in this code.
      3.   Overhanging encroachments, such as awnings and roof eaves, must be
placed at least ten feet (10') above the grade immediately below.
      4.   Encroachment cannot constitute a hazard to the use of the Right-of-
Way by the public.
      5.   Encroachment cannot be placed in a way as to constitute an obstacle
in violation of local, state, and federal universal accessibility and ADA laws,
rules, and regulations.
   C.   Placing an encroachment in the Right-of-Way as permitted by this
section does not grant any property rights in the city's Right-of-Way to the
owner of the encroachment.
   D.   The city may, without advance notice, perform construction and
maintenance activities within the Right-of-Way. The city is not responsible for
any damage to any encroachments present in the Right-of-Way when performing
these activities.
   E.   Encroachments permitted by this section are subject to removal, at
property owner's expense, upon thirty (30) days written notice from the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-4: NONEXCLUSIVE RIGHT-OF-WAY USE:
   A.   The city manager transportation systems director may grant a
nonexclusive right of way use permit for use of public right of way, including
right of way used for pedestrian purposes, for private commercial use that does
not exclude the public and does not constitute a hazard to the safety of the
public's use of the right of way.
   B.   A nonexclusive Right-of-Way use permit may only be granted for uses
that are permitted in the district and district immediately adjacent to the
right-of-way on which the use is taking place. These uses may include, for
example without limitation:
      1.   Commercial sale of goods or services, including the retail sale of
food products from vehicles legally parked on the right-of-way;
      2.   Social gatherings and special events privately conducted by and for
residents of a neighborhood in a zoning district that allows for residential
uses by right;
      3.   Special events and celebrations sponsored by nonprofit
organizations;
      4.   Vending machines and private parcel carrier drop boxes;
      5.   Use of closed right of way that contains an indistinguishable mix of
private and public uses; and
      6.   Deployment of fiber and related equipment in the Right-of-Way for
cable, telecommunications, broadband or utilities purposes.
   C.   As applicable, the application for a nonexclusive right of way use
permit must be submitted one week ahead of the start of the event or
construction to the city manager on forms furnished by the city. The
application must include a drawing of the location and dimensions of the right
of way area proposed for the nonexclusive use and the arrangement of personal
property expected to be located and used on the right of way. The application
must also contain a description of the use of the right of way, the starting
and ending times of the use, and the duration of the use.
   D.   A nonexclusive Right-of-Way permit may not exceed five (5) years the
time frame specified therein and must state the starting and ending times as
well as the duration of the nonexclusive use. Renewal or extension of the
permit is subject to review by the city manager. The city manager may place
conditions and limitations on the use of the right of way.
   E.   A nonexclusive right of way permit is a revocable license and is
personal to the applicant and may not be transferred.
   F.   No fixtures or permanent structures may be erected in the right of way
without written approval from the city manager.
   G.   The nonexclusive use of public right of way must allow public
pedestrian access across the right of way, and the use of personal property
placed on the right of way. If the nonexclusive use of the right of Way occurs
on a public sidewalk, the nonexclusive use must provide for an unencumbered
remainder of sidewalk that is no less than seven five feet (7' 5') in width.
   H.   Tables, chairs, and other personal property must be placed so as not to
obstruct normal ingress to and egress from any adjacent entrance to a building.
   I.   Except as allowed by permit, public right of way under a nonexclusive
permit may not be used for idle storage of personal property not used actively
for the permit purposes.
   J.   Signs are not permitted unless they comply with this code and the size,
location, and type of sign are approved by the city manager in conjunction with
a nonexclusive right of way permit.
   K.   The city manager may require the sponsor of a special event, as a
condition for the issuance of a nonexclusive right of way permit, to indemnify
and hold the city harmless from liability, and the city manager may require
adequate insurance for this indemnification and hold harmless requirement.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-5: EXCLUSIVE RIGHT-OF-WAY USE:
   A.   A permit may be granted by the city commission for the exclusive use of
public right of way, including those used for pedestrian purposes, upon a
showing of public benefit, and provided the use as constructed does not
inconvenience or endanger the public:
      1.   Installation of and use for cable television and other utility
services that are not allowed to use public right of way by law;
      2.   Installation and use of structures and fixtures appurtenant to a
structure;
      3.   The commercial sale of goods or services on public right of way that
excludes the public; and
      4.   Private use of closed right of way that excludes the public.
   B.   Exclusive right of way use permits that are granted by the city
commission are subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, permits to use a
public right of way for an exclusive private commercial purpose may be issued
only to persons or entities owning or leasing commercial property located
immediately adjacent to an improved sidewalk within a public right of way.
      2.   An exclusive right of way use permit may only be granted for uses
that are permitted in the district immediately adjacent to the right of way.
      3.   Signs are not permitted unless they comply with
title 11, chapter 23 of this code and the size, location, and type of sign are
approved by the city commission in conjunction with an exclusive right of way
permit.
      4.   The application for an exclusive right of way use permit is made to
the city commission on forms furnished by the city. The application must
include a scaled drawing of the precise location and dimensions of the right of
way area proposed for the exclusive private commercial use, arrangement of
tables and seating, and other personal property expected to be located and used
on the right of way, including proposed fencing, screening, or other barriers
that separate the private commercial use from the portion of the right of way
that remains unencumbered for pedestrian use.
      5.   If the exclusive use of right of way occurs on a public sidewalk,
the exclusive use must provide for an unencumbered remainder of sidewalk that
is no less than seven feet (7') in width.
      6.   The applicant for an exclusive right of way use permit shall
indemnify, defend, and hold the city and its employees and agents harmless
against all claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense incurred by the city
due to any injury to or death of any person or any damage to property caused by
or resulting from the activities for which the permit is granted. As evidence
of the applicant's ability to perform the conditions of the permit, the
applicant shall furnish a policy or certificate for comprehensive general
liability insurance with the city named as an additional insured. Such
certificate of insurance shall be in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per claim or occurrence. A copy of the most current policy or
certificate must be filed with the city clerk.
      7.   Prior to issuance of an exclusive right of way use permit, the city
commission shall hold a public hearing on the application. The city commission
may place conditions and limitations on the use of the right of way and may by
resolution approve, deny, or conditionally approve the requested exclusive
right of way permit.
      8.   The permit holder shall pay to the city administrative services
department an annual fee for the right of way use permit of five percent (5%)
of the fair market value of the property as determined by the most recent
appraisal by the Montana department of revenue for ad valorem property taxation
purposes, with credit for landscaped areas, alternate routes, and amortized
costs of improvements for public improvements, with a minimum fee per year.
      9.   An exclusive right of way use permit issued under this section may
be revoked by the city commission at its discretion, provided a notice of
intention to revoke the permit is provided to the permit holder at least sixty
(60) days prior to the intended date of revocation. Upon revocation of a
permit, the permit holder is not entitled to reimbursement from the city for
any improvements the permit holder installed on the right of way pursuant to
the permit.
      10.   All other city code provisions apply, notwithstanding the issuance
of an exclusive right of way permit.
      11.   All public improvements on the right of way that are not altered or
removed pursuant to the permit must be maintained in the condition as they
existed at the time that the permit was issued. The permit holder is
responsible to the city for any damage occurring to such public improvements
where such damage arises from or occurs in consequence of the presence or
operation of the exclusive use of public right of way. The permit holder shall
immediately report any damage to such public improvements to the public works
director. The city may repair or replace such improvement in its discretion and
may charge the cost of such repair or replacement to the permit holder, unless
the permit holder can establish that the damage resulted from a cause not
related to the permit holder's operation or use of the right of way.
      12.   The city manager may, after providing notice to the permit holder,
suspend a right of way use permit if the city manager believes that the
continued exclusive use of the public right of way poses a threat to the
public's health, safety, or welfare. If an exclusive right of way permit is
suspended, the city manager shall report the suspension to the city commission
at its next regularly scheduled meeting for the city commission to determine
whether the permit should be revoked. The city commission may continue the
suspension pending notice to the permit holder of the revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-6: APPLICATION FEE AND COST REIMBURSEMENT; FOR CABLE AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS FOR THE USE OF CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY
OR OTHER PROPERTY FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   A person or entity seeking a cable or telecommunications franchise or
agreement for the use of city right-of-way or other property for cable or
telecommunications facilities shall:
      1.   Pay to the city a non-refundable application fee to cover the cost
of all direct and indirect administrative expenses and staff efforts devoted to
developing, drafting, negotiating and finalizing a cable or telecommunications
franchise or agreement for the use of city right-of-way or other property for
cable and telecommunications facilities;
      2.   Reimburse the city for all out-of-pocket processing costs, including
but not limited to the cost of publication of notices relating to the cable or
telecommunications franchise or agreement for the use of city right of way or
other property for cable and telecommunications facilities; and
      3.   Reimburse the city for the city's reasonable outside attorneys'
fees, consultants' fees and expenses incurred in developing, drafting,
negotiating and finalizing the cable or telecommunications franchise or other
agreement for use of city right-of-way or other property for cable and
telecommunications facilities.
      4.   Pay all franchise fees and other fees and taxes as permitted by
federal and state Law.
   B.   The fees, taxes and costs paid pursuant to 7-3-6(A) shall not be offset
against any franchise fees or other fees amounts payable to the city during the
term of the franchise or agreement.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-7: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular, and words
in the singular include the plural. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning:
APPLICANT:                            Any Person or entity that applies for any
                                      Permit pursuant to this Chapter.
CITY:                                 The City of Helena, Montana.
                                      All real property owned in fee by the
                                      city or dedicated for a specific purpose,
                                      other than public ways and utility
                                      easements as those terms are defined
                                      herein. City property shall also include,
CITY PROPERTY:                        for example, all city-owned poles,
                                      buildings and antenna support structures
                                      and infrastructure outside of the public
                                      ways, provided that additional
                                      agreements, pole attachment agreements or
                                      leases with the city shall be required
                                      for their use.
INFORMATION SERVICE:                  As defined in 47 U.S.C Section 153 (24).
                                      The authorization in whatever form
                                      whereby the city may grant permission to
PERMIT:                               a provider for construction to enter and
                                      use the specified public ways for the
                                      purpose of installing, maintaining,
                                      repairing or removing facilities.
                                      Includes any natural person, sole
                                      proprietorship, joint venture,
                                      corporations, companies, associations,
PERSON:                               partnerships, limited liability entities
                                      and companies, and any other form of
                                      entity or corporation. Person shall not
                                      include the City.
                                      Any highway, street, alley, utility
                                      easement (unless its use is otherwise
PUBLIC WAYS or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or restricted), or other public Right-of-Way
RIGHT-OF-WAY:                         under the jurisdiction and control of the
                                      city which has been acquired,
                                      established, dedicated or devoted to or
                                      hereafter held by the city.
STATE:                                The State of Montana.
                                      A telecommunications service provider or
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:          a telecommunications infrastructure
                                      provider, or both, as applicable.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:           As defined in 47 U.S.C. 153 (53).
                                      Any easement owned by the City and
                                      acquired, established, dedicated or
UTILITY EASEMENT:                     devoted for public utility purposes not
                                      inconsistent with Telecommunications
                                      facilities.
 
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-8: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A city business license is required for all telecommunications service and
infrastructure providers.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   Prior to the construction, excavation, installation, maintenance or
operation of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways or on
city property, the telecommunications provider shall, at its cost, obtain all
requisite permits from the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-10: APPLICATIONS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   Applications for permits to install, maintain, operate, repair and remove
telecommunications facilities shall be submitted to the transportation systems
director upon forms to be provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   A.   That the installation, maintenance, operation, repair or removal of
telecommunications facilities will be in accordance with all applicable codes,
rules and regulations;
   B.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a map showing where
the telecommunications facilities are to be located within the city, all in
sufficient detail to identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for the applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities. Vertical location shall be provided for proposed
crossings of all existing utilities that will be crossed;
      2.   The location of the applicant's overhead and underground
telecommunications lines and equipment in the public ways along the proposed
route;
      3.   The specific structures, improvements, facilities, lines and
equipment and obstructions, if any, that the applicant proposes to temporarily
or permanently remove or relocate and an approved landscape plan for
protecting, trimming, removing, replacing/restoring any trees or areas to be
disturbed during construction.
   C.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
      2.   Evidence that there is sufficient capacity within the public ways
for the proposed telecommunications facilities;
   D.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, lines and other facilities within or adjacent to the
public ways; and
   E.   The proposed construction schedule and work hours which may be limited
by the city (including the requirement of working at night for traffic flow)
and for other public health, safety and welfare related issues.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-11: DISPLAY OF RIGHT-OF-WAY USE PERMIT:
   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the permit and approved plans at the
construction site, which shall be displayed and made available for inspection
by the transportation system director at all times when construction work is
occurring.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-12: TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN:
   All Permit applications which involve work on, in, under, across, or along
any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic /pedestrian control plan
demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be deployed,
consistent with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent
injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-13: FRANCHISE OR OTHER AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
   In addition to obtaining any and all requisite permits from the city, a
telecommunications provider desiring to place its telecommunications facilities
in public ways must first obtain a franchise or other agreement from the city,
unless a specific exception is clearly provided by federal or state law.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-14: LEASE OR OTHER AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
   In addition to obtaining any and all requisite permits from the city, a
telecommunications provider desiring to place its telecommunications facilities
on city property (other than public ways) must first obtain a lease or other
agreement from the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-15: APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING FRANCHISE ORDINANCES, AGREEMENTS, LEASES AND
PERMITS
   Except as otherwise provided herein or permitted by applicable federal or
state law, this chapter shall have no effect on any franchise ordinance,
franchise agreement, lease, permit, or other authorization existing on or
before the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, to use or
occupy public ways or city property until:
   A.   The expiration of said franchise ordinance, franchise agreement, lease,
permit, or authorization; or
   B.   An amendment granted by the city commission to an unexpired franchise
ordinance, franchise agreement, lease, permit, or authorization.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-16: RELIEF:
   The city may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices
and abate any condition which constitutes or will constitute a violation of the
applicable provisions of this chapter. Violation of the terms of this chapter
may also result in the revocation of any permit or franchise or other agreement
granted hereunder.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-17: OTHER REMEDIES:
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial or other
remedies that the city may have, at law, in equity, or otherwise for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-18: FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX:
   The fees and charges provided for in a franchise and any compensation
charged and paid for the use of public ways provided for herein, whether
monetary or in-kind (to the extent permitted by law), are separate from, and
additional to, any and all federal, state, local, and city taxes as may be
lawfully levied, imposed or due from a telecommunications provider, its
customers or subscribers or on account of the sale, delivery or transmission of
telecommunications service.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-19: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
   No permit issued hereunder shall confer any exclusive right or privilege to
occupy or use the public ways for delivery of telecommunications services or
any other purposes.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-20: FEE FOR RECOVERY OF CITY COSTS:
   Each permit issued is subject to the city's right to recover its actual
administrative expenses incurred that are directly related to receiving and
approving a permit, and to inspecting plans and construction. A
telecommunications provider shall reimburse such costs within thirty (30) days
after written demand from the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-21: POLICE POWER:
   In accepting any permits issued hereunder, the telecommunications provider
acknowledges that its rights thereunder are subject to the legitimate rights of
the police power of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary
to protect the safety, health and welfare of the public, it being understood
that such exercise must be done in accordance with applicable law and be
related to use and management of the public ways.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-22: REGULATION BY THE CITY:
   In addition to the inherent powers of the city to regulate and control any
permit it issues, and those powers expressly reserved by the city, or agreed to
and provided for in any permit, the right and power is hereby reserved by the
city to adopt such additional regulations as it may find necessary in the
exercise of its lawful powers to manage the public ways.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-23: CODES:
   Construction of telecommunications facilities with respect to public ways
shall be developed, installed, excavated, maintained, operated, repaired and
replaced in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-24: LOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   All telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, and
located in accordance with the following terms and conditions, unless otherwise
specified in a permit.
   A.   A telecommunications provider with permission to occupy the public ways
must, to the extent practicable locate all new telecommunications facilities
underground, unless in that designated geographic area, existing electric,
telephone or cable lines are overhead and above-ground.
   B.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities, or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within the
public ways, a telecommunications provider that currently occupies the same
public ways shall, at its cost and expense, relocate its telecommunications
facilities underground if so ordered by the city. Such relocation shall be made
concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public ways.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-25: COMPLIANCE WITH ONE-NUMBER LOCATOR SERVICE:
   All telecommunications providers shall, before commencing any construction
in the public ways, comply with MCA 69-4-501, et seq.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-26: MINIMIZE INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC WAYS:
   No person may locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to
unreasonably interfere with the use of the public ways by the city, by the
general public or other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the
public ways. All such telecommunications facilities shall be moved by the
telecommunications provider or other person at its own cost, temporarily or
permanently, as determined by the transportation systems director.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-27: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   No telecommunications provider or other person shall take any action or
allow any action to be done which may impair or damage any public ways, any
city property or other property (whether publicly or privately owned).
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-28: NOTICE OF WORK:
   A.   No telecommunications provider or other person shall commence any
nonemergency work in or about the public ways without first obtaining a permit
and providing advance written notice to the city of such work as required by
the permit.
   B.   In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency, a telecommunications
provider may commence such repair and emergency response work as required under
the circumstances, provided the telecommunications provider shall notify the
city as promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work commences or
as soon thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable. Further,
the telecommunications provider shall apply for a permit and pay all associated
fees as soon as the emergency is abated.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-29: MAINTENANCE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   Each telecommunications provider shall maintain its telecommunications
facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that complies with all
applicable federal, state and local requirements.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-30: RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   A telecommunications provider shall temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change, or alter the position of any telecommunications facilities
within the public ways whenever the transportation systems director has
determined that such removal, relocation, change, or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of the public
ways for purposes of public welfare, health or safety. Such relocation shall be
performed at the cost and expense of the telecommunications provider.
   B.   When the transportation systems director orders relocations under this
section, the telecommunications provider shall be given reasonable advance
notice thereof, which period of time shall be no less than ninety (90) days
except for emergency situations; provided, that if the transportation systems
director discovers following such order any unidentified, nonpermitted or
misplaced telecommunications facilities, such facilities shall be removed
immediately. The actual number of days shall be specified by the transportation
systems director in the relocation notice.
   C.   The telecommunications provider may, after receipt of said notice,
submit to the city written alternatives to such relocation. The transportation
systems director shall evaluate such alternatives and advise the
telecommunications provider in writing if any one or more of the alternatives,
including the amount of time required to safely complete such relocation, is
suitable to accommodate the work which would otherwise necessitate relocation
of the telecommunications facilities as stated in the city's order. If
requested, the telecommunications provider shall submit additional information
to assist the city in making such an evaluation. The city shall give each
alternative proposed full and fair consideration, within a reasonable period of
time, so as to allow the relocation work to be performed in a timely manner. In
the event that the city ultimately determines that there is no other reasonable
alternative, the telecommunications provider shall relocate its
telecommunications facilities as otherwise provided in the order.
   D.   In the event that the city orders a telecommunications provider to
relocate its telecommunications facilities for a project which is primarily for
private benefit, the private party or parties causing the need for such project
shall reimburse the telecommunications provider for the cost of relocation in
the same proportion as their contribution to the cost of the project.
   E.   In the event of an unforeseen emergency which creates a threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the city may require a telecommunications
provider to relocate its telecommunications facilities at the
telecommunications provider's own expense, any other portion of this section
notwithstanding.
   F.   If payment of the costs of relocation is in dispute, the
telecommunications provider shall still commence and complete the relocation as
provided herein on a timely basis for Transportation/public works projects
undertaken by the city. Telecommunications providers shall indemnify, hold
harmless, and defend the city, its commission, officers, officials, employees,
agents and representatives from any and all any damages, claims, liabilities,
actions, causes of action, suits, costs, expenses and attorneys' fees for delay
or delays on public improvement projects caused by the Telecommunications
providers, or their contractors or subcontractors of any tier, to relocate the
Telecommunications facilities in a timely manner, unless caused by:
      1.   Circumstances beyond a Telecommunications provider's control; or
      2.   The city's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-31: MOVING OF A BUILDING:
   Whenever any person shall have obtained permission from the city to use any
public ways for the purpose of moving any building, a telecommunications
provider upon seven (7) days' written notice from the city shall raise or
remove, at the expense of the person desiring to move the building, any of the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities which may obstruct
the removal of such building; provided, that the person desiring to move the
building shall comply with all requirements of the city for the movement of
buildings and remit the applicable cost of raising or removing the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities prior to the
telecommunications provider's commencement of such work.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-32: REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND ABANDONMENT:
   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the city, any
telecommunications provider or other person who owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized telecommunications facilities or related appurtenances within
the public ways shall, at its own expense, provide written confirmation
acknowledging the city's notice. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice,
the telecommunications provider or other person must provide a corrective
action plan to either remove such telecommunications facilities or bring such
telecommunications facilities into compliance. telecommunications facilities
are unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
   A.   Upon abandonment of the telecommunications facilities within the public
ways of the city, or if a telecommunications provider does not respond within
thirty (30) days after notice from the city such property shall also then be
deemed abandoned;
   B.   If the telecommunications facilities were constructed or installed
without a prior valid Permit or agreement or franchise;
   C.   If the telecommunications facilities were constructed or installed at a
location not allowed by a Permit.
   D.   Provided, however, that the city may, in its sole discretion, allow a
telecommunications provider or other such persons who may own, control, or
maintain telecommunications facilities within the public ways of the city to
abandon such telecommunications facilities in place. No telecommunications
facilities of any type may be abandoned in place without the express written
consent of the city. Any plan for abandonment or removal of such
telecommunications facilities must first be approved by the transportation
systems director, and all necessary permits must be obtained prior to such
removal. Upon permanent abandonment of the property of a telecommunications
provider in place, the property shall become that of the city, and the
telecommunications provider shall submit to the city an instrument in writing,
to be approved by the city attorney, transferring to the city the ownership of
such property.
   E.   Abandoned telecommunications facilities are also deemed to be a
nuisance. After providing written notice to the occupant, the city may exercise
any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including but not limited
to:
      1.   Abating the nuisance, at the expense of the telecommunications
provider;
      2.   Requiring removal of the telecommunications facilities at the
expense of the telecommunications provider; or
      3.   Removing abandoned telecommunications facilities at the expense of
the telecommunications provider.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-33: EMERGENCY REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   The city retains the right and privilege to remove or relocate any
telecommunications facilities located within the public ways, as the city may
determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public
health or safety emergency. The city shall not be liable to any
telecommunications provider, or any other person for any direct, indirect, or
any other such damages suffered by any person or entity of any type as a direct
or indirect result of the city's actions under this section. The city shall
attempt to contact the telecommunications provider and provide an opportunity
for the telecommunications provider to perform the necessary cutting or moving
unless the emergency necessitates city action prior to such contact.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-34: DAMAGE TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   Unless directly and proximately caused by the sole negligence or willful
misconduct of the city, the city shall not be liable for any damage to any
telecommunications facilities within the public ways as a result of or in
connection with any public works, public improvements, construction,
excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind within the public ways by or
on behalf of the city nor shall the city be liable with respect to any actions
in connection with Section
7-13-32 above.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
 7-13-35: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   When a telecommunications provider or other person does any work in or
affecting any public ways, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any
obstructions therefrom and restore such public ways to the condition as existed
before the work was undertaken.
   B.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required by this section, the telecommunications provider shall temporarily
restore the affected public ways. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
telecommunications provider's sole expense and the telecommunications provider
shall promptly undertake and complete the required permanent restoration when
the weather or other conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration,
all of which shall be subject to the city's prior written approval.
   C.   A telecommunications provider or other person acting on its behalf
shall use suitable barricades, flags, flaggers, lights, flares, and other
measures as required for the safety of all members of the general public and to
prevent injury or damage to any person, vehicle, or property by reason of such
work in or affecting such public ways.
   D.   The transportation systems director shall be responsible for inspection
and final approval of the condition of the public ways following any
construction and restoration activities.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-36: DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION:
   Within ten (10) days of a written request from the city, each
telecommunications provider shall furnish the city with information sufficient
to demonstrate:
   A.   That the telecommunications provider has complied with all of the
requirements of this chapter; and
   B.   All books, records, maps and other documents maintained by the
telecommunications provider with respect to the location of its
telecommunications facilities within the public ways shall be made available
for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals; provided,
however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to require a
telecommunications provider to violate state or federal law regarding
subscriber privacy, nor shall this section be construed to require a
telecommunications provider to disclose proprietary or confidential information
unless adequate safeguards are in place for confidential or proprietary
information.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-37: LEASED CAPACITY:
   A telecommunications provider shall have the right, without prior city
approval, to offer or provide fiber capacity or bandwidth to other carriers,
resellers, customers, or subscribers consistent with a franchise or agreement;
provided, however, that the telecommunications provider shall remain
responsible for compliance with this chapter and such franchise or agreement,
and provided the other user must obtain any necessary franchise or other
agreement required by the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-38: INSURANCE:
   A.   Each telecommunications provider shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring both the telecommunications
provider and the city against claims for death or injuries to persons, or
damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the exercise of
the rights, privileges, and authority granted to the telecommunications
provider:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance, written on an occurrence
basis, with limits not less than:
         a.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person; and
         b.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each
accident;
      3.   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00);
      4.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse,
underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not less than
three million dollars ($3,000,000.00); and
      5.   Excess umbrella liability with limits of no less than five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate.
   B.   Insurance shall be placed with insurers with a rating of A.M. Best &
Company's Key rating Guide of at least A-Overall and a Financial Size Category
of "VII." The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the telecommunications provider throughout the term of the
permit, and such other period of time during which the telecommunications
provider has telecommunications facilities in the public ways or is engaged in
the removal of its telecommunications facilities. Failure to maintain such
insurance shall be grounds for cancellation of the permit. The
telecommunications provider shall provide an insurance certificate, together
with an endorsement including the city, and its elected and appointed officers,
officials, agents, employees, representatives, engineers, consultants, and
volunteers as additional insureds, to the city prior to the commencement of any
work or installation of any telecommunications facilities pursuant to said
permit. Payment of deductibles and self-insured retentions shall be the sole
responsibility of the telecommunications provider. The insurance certificate
required by this section shall contain a clause stating that coverage shall
apply separately to each insured against whom a claim is made or suit is
brought, except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability. The
telecommunications provider's insurance shall be primary and noncontributory
insurance as respect to the city. Any insurance maintained by the city shall be
in excess of the telecommunications provider's insurance and shall not
contribute with it. Maintenance of insurance shall not be construed to limit
the liability of the telecommunications provider to the coverage provided by
such insurance or otherwise limit the city's recourse to any remedy available
at law or in equity.
   C.   In addition to the coverage requirements set forth in this section, the
telecommunications provider must notify the city of any cancellation or
reduction in said coverage. Within thirty (30) days after receipt by the city
of said notice, and in no event less than fifteen (15) days prior to said
cancellation or intent not to renew, the telecommunications provider shall
obtain and furnish to the city replacement insurance and certificates of
insurance meeting the requirements of this section.
   D.   Upon written approval by the city's finance director and based on
conditions set by the city in the permit, the telecommunications provider may
self-insure under the same terms as required by this section.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-39: GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   A telecommunications provider shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold
harmless the city, its city commission, officers, officials, employees, agents
and representatives from any and all actions, causes of action, suits, claims,
costs, damages, expenses, attorneys' fees, judgments, awards or liability to
any person arising from injury, sickness, or death of any person or damage to
property arising out of the acts or omissions of the telecommunications
provider, its contractors of any tier, agents, servants, officers or employees
with regard to a permit, franchise or agreement and its operations thereunder.
   B.   Inspection or acceptance by the city of any work performed by the
telecommunications provider at the time of completion of construction shall not
be grounds for avoidance of any of these covenants of indemnification.
Provided, that the telecommunications provider must be given written notice by
the city of any such claim, and indemnification obligations shall also extend
to claims which are not reduced to a suit and any claims which may be
compromised prior to the culmination of any litigation or the initiation of any
litigation. The city has the right to defend or participate in the defense of
any such claim, and has the right to approve any settlement or other compromise
of any such claim.
   C.   In the event that the telecommunications provider refuses the tender of
defense in any suit or any claim, said tender having been made pursuant to this
section, and said refusal is subsequently determined by a court having
jurisdiction (or such other tribunal that the parties agree to decide the
matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of the telecommunications
provider, then the telecommunications provider shall pay all of the city's
costs for defense of the action, including all expert witness fees, attorneys'
fees, and expenses.
   D.   The obligations of the telecommunications provider under the
indemnification provisions of this section shall apply regardless of whether
liability for damages arising out of bodily injury or death to persons or
damages to property were caused or contributed to by the concurrent negligence
of the city, its officers, agents, employees or contractors. The court shall
apportion liability accordingly.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-40: LIMITATION ON DAMAGES:
   In no event shall the city be liable for any indirect, incidental, special,
consequential, exemplary, or punitive damages, including by way of example and
not limitation lost profits, lost revenue, loss of goodwill, or loss of
business opportunity in connection with its performance or failure to perform.
The telecommunications provider releases and waives any and all such claims
against the city, its elected officials, officers, agents, employees and
contractors of any tier.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-41: SECURITY FUND:
   A.   Prior to issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter, each
telecommunications provider shall establish a permanent security fund with the
city by depositing the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or such
higher amount as deemed necessary by the transportation systems director, with
the city in cash, a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit, based upon
operating history in the public ways and the cost of removal of the
telecommunications provider's facilities; which fund shall be maintained at the
sole expense of the telecommunications provider so long as any of the
telecommunications provider's telecommunications facilities are located within
the public ways.
   B.   The fund shall serve as security for the city, including any costs,
expenses, attorneys' fees, damages, or loss the city pays or incurs, including
civil penalties, because of any failure attributable to the telecommunications
provider to comply with the codes, ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits
of the city applicable to the construction, maintenance, operation, repair,
upgrade or removal of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
   C.   Before any sums are withdrawn from the security fund, the city shall
give written notice to the telecommunications provider:
      1.   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied; and
      2.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for the telecommunications
provider to first remedy the existing or ongoing default or failure.
   D.   Telecommunications providers shall replenish the security fund within
fourteen (14) days after written notice from the city that there is a
deficiency in the amount of the fund.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-42: CONSTRUCTION BOND:
   Telecommunications providers performing work in the public ways must also
provide a construction bond written by a corporate surety acceptable to the
city equal to at least 150% of the estimated cost of each phase of construction
and restoring the public ways to their pre-construction condition.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-43: COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
   All telecommunications providers are required to cooperate with the city and
with each other in coordination of construction activities. The transportation
systems director shall coordinate all construction locations, activities, and
schedules to minimize public inconvenience, disruption, or damage to the public
ways.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-44: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER:
   Ownership or change in control of a permit or franchise or agreement granted
hereunder may not occur, directly or indirectly, or be transferred, assigned or
disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of a
telecommunications provider, without the prior written consent of the city,
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-45: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A telecommunications provider in accordance with applicable federal, state,
and local safety requirements shall, at all times, employ reasonable and
ordinary care. All structures and lines, equipment and connections in, over,
under, and upon the public ways permitted by a permit shall at all times be
kept and maintained in a safe, suitable condition, and in good order and
repair.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-46: ADDITIONAL DUCTS OR CONDUITS:
   The city may require that a telecommunications provider that is
constructing, relocating, or placing ducts or conduits in the public ways
provide the city with additional ducts or conduits and related structures
necessary to access the same. The terms and conditions under which such
additional ducts and conduits shall be provided shall be subject to the mutual
written agreement of the telecommunications provider and the city.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-47: NON-COMPLYING WORK:
   A.   Whenever the transportation systems director determines that any
condition on any public ways is in violation of, or public ways are being used
contrary to, any provision of this chapter or permit, the transportation
systems director may order the correction or discontinuance of such condition
or any activity causing such condition.
   B.   The transportation systems director is authorized to use any or all of
the following methods in ordering correction or discontinuance of any such
conditions or activities as determined appropriate:
      1.   Verbal or written directives to the telecommunications provider or
other responsible person requesting immediate correction or discontinuance of
the specified condition;
      2.   Service of a written notice of violation, ordering correction or
discontinuance of a specific condition or activity within ten (10) days of
notice, or such other reasonable period as the transportation systems director
may determine;
      3.   Revocation of previously granted permits where the
telecommunications provider or other responsible person has failed or refused
to comply with requirements imposed by the city related to such permits;
      4.   Issuance of an order to immediately stop work until authorization is
received from the city to proceed with such work; or
      5.   Refusal to grant additional permits to the telecommunications
provider until the correction or discontinuance of such unsafe, nonconforming
or unauthorized use is resolved.
   C.   All expenses incurred by the city in abating a nuisance condition under
this subsection shall constitute a civil debt owing to the city, jointly and
severally, by such persons who have been given notice or who own or placed the
facilities, lines or equipment in the right of way, which debt shall be
collectible in the same manner as any other civil debt.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-48: COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
   The telecommunications provider shall promptly complete all construction
activities so as to minimize disruption of the public ways, city property and
private property. All construction work authorized by a permit within public
ways, including restoration, must be completed within the time specified in the
permit, unless an extension is granted by the transportation systems director.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-49: PLANS AND DRAWINGS:
   Within sixty (60) days after completion of construction, the
telecommunications provider shall furnish the city with complete sets of plans,
drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurate as reasonably possible
depicting the horizontal and vertical location and configuration of all
telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the permit. For above
ground telecommunications facilities, such plans shall include site
photographs. The transportation systems director shall have the discretion to
prescribe the number of copies and format of said record drawings, consistent
with city codes and policies, and to require submission of such record drawings
in a digital format.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-50: RESTORATION AFTER CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR
REPLACEMENT:
   Upon completion of any construction, installation, maintenance, repair or
replacement work, the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public and
private property improvements, fixtures, structures, and other facilities in
the public ways damaged during the course of construction, installation,
maintenance, repair or replacement, restoring the same as nearly as practicable
to their condition before the start of construction, installation, maintenance,
repair or replacement. All survey monuments disturbed or displaced shall be
replaced to the satisfaction of the transportation systems director. The
referencing and replacement of survey monuments shall be performed by a
licensed land surveyor. The transportation systems director shall have final
approval of the completeness of all restoration work and all telecommunications
providers shall warrant said restoration work and the condition of the public
ways for a period of at least one (1) year.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-51: LANDSCAPE RESTORATION:
   A.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a
result of the construction, installation, maintenance, operation, repair, or
replacement of telecommunications facilities, shall be replaced or restored as
nearly as may be practicable, to the condition existing prior to performance of
the work.
   B.   All landscape restoration work within the public ways shall be done in
accordance with landscape plans approved by the transportation systems
director.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-52: ABOVE-GROUND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   Installation in the public ways of above-ground telecommunications
facilities by telecommunications providers may create safety hazards and
adverse visual impacts. Consequently, the transportation systems director is
authorized to impose reasonable conditions in order to mitigate those potential
adverse impacts that may result, whether on an individual or a cumulative
basis, from permitted above-ground facilities. Those conditions may include or
relate to, without limitation, the following:
   A.   The subsequent design and installation by qualified professionals of
landscaping and barriers to minimize public view per city development
guidelines of those above-ground telecommunications facilities (while
maintaining necessary sight lines for motorists and pedestrians).
   B.   The maintenance of all above-ground telecommunications facilities in
good condition, including compliance with the city's requirements or ordinances
regarding graffiti removal. In this regard, a telecommunications provider shall
be required to affix to its above-ground telecommunications facilities a coded
label or marker that identifies the specific facility and sets forth a
telephone number that may be called to report any damage, destruction, or
graffiti vandalism involving that telecommunications facility.
   C.   The placement of above-ground telecommunications facilities, such as
overhead drops, as close as possible to other utility drops, consistent with
all applicable electrical codes.
   D.   Reasonable limitations on the number of above-ground telecommunications
facilities that may be installed within a designated geographical area so as
not to inconvenience the public's use of the public way or adversely affect the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   E.   The specification of colors of above-ground telecommunications
facilities reasonably requested by the city to ensure that those
telecommunications facilities blend in with the surrounding environment to the
maximum extent possible and taking into account the manufacturer's available
color selections.
   F.   Compliance with all requirements of the National Electrical Safety Code
and all clearance requirements required by federal, state and local law.
   G.   Such additional conditions regulating the time, place, and manner of
installation of above-ground telecommunications facilities as will reasonably
mitigate potential safety hazards and adverse visual impacts attributable to
those telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-53: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES:
   The remedies provided to the city in this chapter shall not be exclusive and
shall be cumulative with all other remedies available to the city at law or in
equity.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
7-13-54: SEVERABILITY:
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter, or
its application to any person or circumstance, is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction,
said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 3317, 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 14
RESERVED
   Repealed by Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023.
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 2
DISTRACTED DRIVING
SECTION:
8-2-1:   Definitions
8-2-2:   Prohibited Activities
8-2-3:   Violation, Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
   BICYCLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled solely by human power,
having two (2) tandem wheels, and a seat height of more than twenty five inches
(25") from the ground; or a mechanical transportation device equipped with two
(2) or three (3) wheels, foot pedals to permit muscular propulsions, and an
independent power source that provides a maximum of two (2) brake horsepower,
with a piston or rotor displacement of not more than 3.05 cubic inches, fifty
(50) centimeters.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: Mechanical transportation
device having two (2) nontandem wheels, being self-balancing, and designed to
transport only one person with an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed to twelve and one-half (121/2) miles per hour.
   ENGAGE IN A CALL: Talking into or listening on a handheld mobile telephone,
but not including holding a handheld mobile telephone to activate, deactivate,
or initiate a function of the telephone.
   HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE: A mobile telephone with which a user engages in a
call using at least one hand.
   HANDS FREE ACCESSORY: An attachment, add on, built in feature, or addition
to a mobile telephone, whether or not permanently installed in a motor vehicle,
that when used allows the vehicle operator to maintain both hands on the
steering wheel.
   HANDS FREE MOBILE TELEPHONE: A handheld mobile telephone that has an
internal feature or function or that is equipped with a hands free accessory,
whether or not permanently part of the handheld mobile telephone, by which a
user engages in a call without the use of either hand, whether or not the use
of either hand is necessary to activate, deactivate, or initiate a function of
the telephone.
   IMMEDIATE PROXIMITY: The distance that permits the operator of a handheld
mobile telephone to hear telecommunications transmitted over a handheld mobile
telephone, but does not require physical contact with the operator's ear.
   MOBILE ELECTRONIC DEVICE: Any handheld or other portable electronic
equipment capable of providing data communication between two (2) or more
persons, including a text messaging device, a mobile telephone when used for
text messaging, a paging device, a personal digital assistant, or a laptop
computer; equipment that is capable of playing a video game or a digital video
disk; equipment on which digital photographs are taken or transmitted; or any
combination of those functions.
The term does not include two-way radios, audio equipment, or any equipment
installed in a motor vehicle for the purpose of providing navigation, emergency
assistance to the operator of the motor vehicle, or video entertainment to the
passengers in the rear seats of the motor vehicle.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE: A cellular, analog, wireless, or digital telephone capable
of sending or receiving telephone communications without an access line for
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled by its own power
and designed or used to transport persons or property upon streets, alleys, and
other public rights of way, except those moved by animal power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. This includes any car, truck,
motor home, motorcycle, quadricycle, and medium speed electric vehicle having a
maximum speed of forty five (45) miles per hour, propelled by an electric motor
or other device that transforms electrical energy into motion, stores
electricity in batteries, ultracapacitors, or other devices charged from a
power grid or renewable electrical energy source, fully enclosed with at least
one door for entry, and having a wheelbase of forty inches (40") or greater and
a wheel diameter of ten inches (10") or greater.
   MOTORIZED NONSTANDARD VEHICLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled by
its own power, using an internal combustion engine or an electric motor and
having a wheelbase of less than forty inches (40") and a wheel diameter of less
than ten inches (10"). This includes any motorized skateboard and pocket
rocket.
   OPERATING: Being in actual physical control of a vehicle, whether or not the
vehicle is moving, while in a driving lane on any public street or highway
right of way, riding a bicycle on a sidewalk, or being in actual physical
control of a moving vehicle on an alley right of way.
   USING OR USE: Holding a handheld mobile telephone or a mobile telephone in
the user's hand, or holding said devices or telephones to the user's ear or in
immediate proximity to the user's ear or face, or activating or physically
manipulating or controlling a mobile electronic device.
   VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle, motorized nonstandard vehicle, electric
personal assistive mobility device, or bicycle. (Ord. 3146, 11-7-2011)
8-2-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person may not operate
a vehicle while using a handheld mobile telephone to engage in a call or while
using a mobile electronic device.
   B.   Subsection A of this section does not apply to:
      1.   The use of a handheld mobile telephone for the sole purpose of
communicating with any of the following regarding an emergency situation:
         a.   An emergency response operator;
         b.   A hospital, physician's office, or health clinic;
         c.   An ambulance company or service;
         d.   A fire department; or
         e.   A police department.
      2.   Any of the following persons while in the performance of their
official duties and within the scope of their employment:
         a.   A public safety officer as defined in section 44-4-401, Montana
Code Annotated; and
         b.   A firefighter or operator of an ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle as defined in section 61-8-102, Montana Code Annotated.
      3.   The use of a hands free accessory or hands free mobile telephone.
(Ord. 3146, 11-7-2011)
8-2-3: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation under this chapter shall be fined not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). A conviction under this chapter is not to
be reported as a traffic regulation violation for purposes of points under
section 61-11-203, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 3146, 11-7-2011)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 6
RESERVED
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 9
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-11-1:   Parking Restricted
8-11-2:   Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
8-11-3:   Method For Curbside Parking
8-11-4:   Parking Prohibited On Boulevards Or Street Right-Of- Way
8-11-5:   Parking Trucks In Officially Zoned Residential District
8-11-6:   No Parking At Schools
8-11-7:   No Parking Areas
8-11-8:   Parking Time Limits
8-11-9:   No Parking Of Certain Vehicles
8-11-10:   Parking For Camping Purposes
8-11-11:   Parking Prohibition, Emergency Snow Routes; Termination; Precedence
(Rep. by Ord. 3249, 2-25-2019)
8-11-12:   Parking In Helena Parking District
8-11-13:   Removal; Impounding; Return Of Motor Vehicles
8-11-14:   Penalty
8-11-15:   Notice Of Violation
8-11-16:   Responsibility For Violation
8-11-1: PARKING RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle, motor vehicle, or trailer upon any
street, roadway, thoroughfare or alley; or on and in any other public place for
the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle or motor vehicle for sale;
      2.   Greasing, maintaining, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
that are necessitated by an emergency rendering the vehicle inoperable.
   B.   No person shall park any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon
the paved or main traveled part of any public street or thoroughfare when it is
practical to stop, park, or leave such vehicle off part of said public street,
and in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a parked
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and in no event
shall this be less than ten feet (10'). No person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle upon any such highway unless such vehicle can be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five hundred feet
(500') and unless drivers approaching from opposite directions are visible to
each other when both are at least five hundred feet (500') from the vehicle to
be stopped, or parked, except in cases of justifiable emergency.
This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled
while on the paved or main traveled portion of a public street, in such manner
and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily
leaving such disabled vehicle in such position. In the event of a vehicle
becoming disabled, every attempt shall be made to remove said vehicle from the
public street, and in no event shall such vehicle be allowed to remain parked
in such location longer than two (2) hours.
   C.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley for a
period of time longer than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading
or unloading of such vehicle. When such vehicles are loading or unloading
within a public alley, ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway shall be
available at all times for the free movement of vehicular traffic. When such a
vehicle is loading or unloading in an alley, the same shall not be parked in
such a position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property.
   D.   A vehicle, motor vehicle, or trailer left on a City street, alley,
roadway or public property over seventy two (72) hours without being moved
shall be declared abandoned. After the vehicle has been declared abandoned, the
City police shall place a five (5) day notice of intent to remove and impound
the vehicle. The owner of a vehicle which has been removed and impounded will
be responsible for moving and storage expenses arising from the transportation
of said abandoned vehicle.
   E.   Any vehicle parked at a parking meter in the City in excess of twenty
four (24) hours shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be impounded and placed in
storage pursuant to the provisions of section
8-21-1 of this title. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
   F.   Any vehicle parked on a city street, alley, roadway or public property,
including city owned or regulated parking lots, which is required to display a
registration plate and none is displayed on the vehicle or the registration
plate has expired, shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be impounded and placed
in storage pursuant to the provisions of section
8-21-1 of this title. (Ord. 2555, 5-21-1990)
8-11-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police
or traffic control officer, or highway patrolman, in any of the following
places:
   A.   On a sidewalk;
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway;
   C.   Within an intersection;
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
   E.   On a crosswalk, or within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk when marked
by painted lines and signed;
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') of the approach to any traffic signal, stop
sign, or other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
   H.   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection radius, measured from a
point fifty feet (50') back from the radius corner of the curb adjacent to the
beginning of the intersection;
   I.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station,
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance;
   K.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping or parking would obstruct the flow of traffic; or leave less than
twenty feet (20') of available roadway for the free movement of traffic;
   L.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
curb, roadway or street;
   M.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure within the city; and
   N.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-
1984)
8-11-3: METHOD FOR CURBSIDE PARKING:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a vehicle parked upon any
public street or thoroughfare shall be parked or stopped with the right hand
wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right
hand curb, or right hand pavement edge or street boundary, as long as such
vehicle is facing the same direction as the traffic flow upon such street.
   B.   On one-way roadways, vehicles may be parked with the left hand wheels
adjacent to and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb, or left
hand pavement edge or street boundary, as long as such vehicle is facing the
same direction as the traffic flow upon such street.
   C.   Angle parking is permitted only where designated by resolution of the
city commission, and appropriate signs or markers are placed showing the
propriety of angle parking. (Ord. 2994, 6-21-2004)
8-11-4: PARKING PROHIBITED ON BOULEVARDS OR STREET RIGHT OF WAY:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, motor vehicle or trailer upon
any street, boulevard, or within any part of the street right of way that has
not been appropriately designated by the city as an allowable parking space, or
is a designated parking lane adjacent to the street edge. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-
1984)
8-11-5: PARKING TRUCKS IN OFFICIALLY ZONED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   No person shall stand or park any truck, truck tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, bus, or any vehicle exceeding the GVW limit of three-fourths (3/4)
ton, on the side of any street which is adjacent to an officially zoned
residential district for any purpose or period of time other than for the
expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicles. An officially zoned
Residential District is defined as any land area within the City which has been
zoned R-1, R-2, or R-3.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the operator of a
truck, truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer, bus, or any other vehicle exceeding
the GVW limit of three-fourths (3/4) ton while such vehicle is actively being
used in connection with the construction or repair of buildings, service calls,
or the moving of household goods, and shall not be applicable to the operator
of a bus while such vehicle is parked in a designated bus stop. (Ord. 2329, 1-
16-1984)
8-11-6: NO PARKING AT SCHOOLS:
   A.   The Director of the Parking and Traffic Division is hereby authorized
to erect or direct the erection of signs indicating no parking upon that side
of any street adjacent to any school property, when such parking would, in his
opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous pedestrian safety
situation.
   B.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of
a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated place. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-11-7: NO PARKING AREAS:
   A.   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to determine and
designate places in which the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would
create an especially hazardous condition or could cause unusual delay to
traffic, including bus and trolley loading zones.
   B.   Such places shall be indicated by the erection of no parking signs,
causing the adjacent curb to be painted yellow, or both.
   C.   When official signs are erected, yellow curbs are painted, or both, at
hazardous or congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place. (Ord. 3086, 6-4-2007)
8-11-8: PARKING TIME LIMITS:
Whenever signs are erected at the direction of the Director of the Parking and
Traffic Division pursuant to an ordinance or resolution of the City Commission
of the City which prohibits parking, establishes time limits in certain parking
zones, or in any way limits or restricts parking, no person shall stop, stand
or park in violation of the provisions indicated by such signs. (Ord. 2329, 1-
16-1984)
8-11-9: NO PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful at any time to park a motor vehicle giving off an
offensive or disagreeable odor, or containing disagreeable and offensive
matter, or any vehicle engaged in hauling gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive matter, whether the vehicle is loaded or empty, upon any public
street or alleyway within the City. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-11-10: PARKING FOR CAMPING PURPOSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle, trailer or
camper for camping purposes on or within any public street or alleyway within
the City, or within one-half (1/2) mile of the City limits upon any public
street or alleyway, except in an authorized tourist park, or upon special
authorization by the City Manager. (Ord. 2688, 9-27-1993)
8-11-11: PARKING PROHIBITION, EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES; TERMINATION; PRECEDENCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 3249, 2-25-2019)
8-11-12: PARKING IN HELENA PARKING DISTRICT:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within the Helena Parking
District in violation of the regulations adopted by the Helena Parking
Commission which regulations are incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord.
2667, 4-12-1993)
8-11-13: REMOVAL; IMPOUNDING; RETURN OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Motor vehicles parked in violation of any section of this chapter may be
removed and impounded by any police officer, Traffic Control Officer, or
highway patrolman, in accordance with section
8-21-1 of this title. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-11-14: PENALTY:
Violation of any preceding section will result in a minimum fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00), and a maximum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord.
3163, 1-14-2013)
8-11-15: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the laws of the State of Montana and this Code. A notice
shall be attached to any vehicle in violation of this chapter stating that it
has been parked in violation of this chapter and instructing the owner thereof
to pay to the City the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for such violation.
If the first such notice of violation is disregarded by failure to pay or
appeal the notice of violation, a second notice shall be mailed to the owner of
record of the vehicle, instructing the owner to pay to the City the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). If the second notice is disregarded, the Director
of Parking and Traffic Division shall institute proceedings for the prosecution
of the violation in Municipal Court. (Ord. 3163, 1-14-2013)
8-11-16: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
For any violation of this chapter, the registered owner of the vehicle at the
time of the violation shall be personally responsible. It shall be no defense
to such charge that the vehicle was illegally parked by another unless it is
shown that at such time the vehicle was being used without the consent of the
owner. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
CHAPTER 12
ON STREET PARKING METER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1:   Authority Of Director Of Parking And Traffic Division
8-12-2:   Placement Of Parking Meters
8-12-3:   Parking Meter Operation
8-12-4:   Tampering With Meters Or Other Parking Devices
8-12-5:   Parking Meter Collections
8-12-6:   Penalty
8-12-7:   Notice Of Violation
8-12-8:   Responsibility For Violation
8-12-1: AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR OF PARKING AND TRAFFIC DIVISION:
   A.   Those portions of the streets of the city abutting business property
and authorized by the city commission are hereby established as parking meter
zones.
   B.   The director of the parking and traffic division is hereby authorized
and directed to install parking meters in all parking meter zones hereby
established or hereafter established, by the city commission, for the purpose
of, and in such numbers and at such places as in his judgment may be necessary
to the regulation, control, and inspection of the parking of vehicles thereon.
(Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-12-2: PLACEMENT OF PARKING METERS:
   A.   Parking meters installed in parking meter zones shall be installed upon
the curb immediately adjacent to the individual parking spaces hereinafter
described, and each parking meter shall be so constructed and adjusted as to
show, when properly operated, a signal that the space adjacent to which it is
installed is or is not legally in use.
   B.   The director of the parking and traffic division shall cause the meters
to be spaced and in such positions so that a driver of a vehicle may back or
drive into the marked space adjacent to the meters, or park within eighteen
inches (18") immediately in front of, or behind the meter where parallel
parking is permitted, and in front of the meter and as close to the curb as
possible when angle parking is permitted. The coin or coins hereinafter
designated shall be deposited in the meter in front of, or behind the parked
vehicle, which meter is hereby designated as the meter for the vehicle. In case
the space shall be designated by the director of the parking and traffic
division by painted lines or markings, then the vehicle must be parked within
the area so designated, and the coins placed in the meter closest to such
designated space. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line
or marking, or to park a vehicle in such a position that it shall not be
entirely within such space designated or within such lines or markings. (Ord.
2329, 1-16-1984)
8-12-3: PARKING METER OPERATION:
   A.   Coin Designation: Parking meters, when installed and properly operated,
shall be adjusted so as to show legal parking in increments of twelve (12)
minutes, with a minimum of twelve (12) minutes on the deposit of a United
States five cent ($0.05) coin for each such increment. Payment shall be made of
the aforesaid amounts for the said times for parking in areas established as
parking meter zones by the city commission. The city manager may authorize the
use of parking tokens officially designated by the city to be used in the city
parking meters. Said tokens may be used in the city parking meters in lieu of
United States coins.
   B.   Parking Time Limits: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
allow, or permit any vehicle registered in his name or operated by him to be
upon any street within any parking meter zone adjacent to which a parking meter
is installed, at any time during which the parking meter is showing a signal
indicating that proper coins have not been deposited in said parking meter, or
the accrued time showing on said parking meter has expired, and a violation
signal is indicated by said parking meter.
Parking meters shall be operated and enforced between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of any day, except Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays. Such time as is necessary for a person to operate
the meter to show legal parking is excluded.
   C.   Two Hour Parking Time Limit: No person shall cause, allow or permit any
vehicle registered in his name to remain parked at a parking meter which has a
designated maximum time limit of two (2) hours or less, to be parked over two
(2) hours.
The director of the parking and traffic division shall cause to be placed in a
visible location on each parking meter, with time limits of two (2) hours or
less, a sign stating the two (2) hour parking restriction, and directing that
vehicles be parked at these meters for no longer than two (2) hours. A vehicle
shall be removed from such designated parking meter zones within two (2) hours;
whether proper coins have been placed in the parking meter or the meter shows
unused time does not affect this requirement.
   D.   Slugs: It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any
parking meter any slug, device or metallic substitute for a five cent ($0.05)
coin, ten cent ($0.10) coin, or twenty five cent ($0.25) coin of the United
States, except officially designated parking tokens.
   E.   Parking Meter Hood:
      1.   Upon application to the director of the parking and traffic
division, a person may be issued a parking meter hood, which, when placed on a
meter, reserves a parking space for his/her exclusive use, and exempts his/her
vehicle from the two (2) hour time limit according to subsection C of this
section.
      2.   Parking meter hoods shall be placed on and removed from parking
meters by parking and traffic division employees only, and may not be relocated
to any other parking meter by the applicant.
      3.   Parking meter hoods shall be used in conjunction with construction,
moving and hauling of materials, and shall not be used for long term parking of
vehicles which are not involved with one of the above.
      4.   The director of the parking and traffic division shall collect from
each applicant three dollars ($3.00) per parking meter hood per day. (Ord.
2329, 1-16-1984)
   F.   Monthly Parking Permits: The city transportation services director
shall issue to individuals permits and/or access control cards which, when
placed in vehicles, or used in access control mechanisms, shall entitle the
vehicles to be legally parked on a specified, city owned, on street parking
area, established by, or hereafter established by the city commission. Such
permits or cards shall be issued upon the payment of amounts, and for durations
of time, as established from time to time by resolution of the city commission.
   G.   Permits And/Or Cards: Permits and/or cards which have been issued for a
specific on street parking facility shall not entitle the holders thereof to
park in any other city owned, on street or off street parking facility unless
payment is made for parking in more than one such facility.
   H.   Location Of On Street Parking Permits: On street parking permits shall
be displayed on the inside of the windshield of the displaying vehicle on the
lower left hand side where they are clearly visible from the outside of the
vehicle at all times.
   I.   Group/Long Term Discount:
      1.   Group Discount: Whenever an individual or business entity purchases
ten (10) or more parking permits for a time period of one month or more, the
transportation services director shall apply a five percent (5%) discount to
the total cost of said permits.
      2.   Long Term Discounts: Whenever an individual or business entity
purchases one or more monthly parking permits for a time period of one year or
more, the transportation services director shall apply a five percent (5%)
discount to the total cost of said permits. All permits purchased for one year
or more shall be paid in advance prior to receiving said discount.
      3.   Entitlement: Under no circumstances shall an individual, partnership
or corporation be entitled to both discounts announced in this section. (Ord.
2428, 2-23-1987)
8-12-4: TAMPERING WITH METERS OR OTHER PARKING DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to deface, injure, tamper
with, or wilfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of any parking meter
or any other parking device installed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-12-5: PARKING METER COLLECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the director of the parking and traffic division to
designate a person to make regular collections of the money deposited in all
parking meters, and to deliver the money to the city treasurer, who shall place
it in a special fund to be known as the parking debt fund. After the parking
debt has been paid, the money deposited in the parking debt fund shall, after
the payment of the expenses set forth herein, and incident to the operation of
meters, be deposited or transferred to the parking reserve and depreciation
fund of the city. Such person making such collections shall be bonded in the
sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to ensure the faithful performance of
his or her duties. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-12-6: PENALTY:
Violation of any preceding section will result in a minimum fine of ten dollars
($10.00), and a maximum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 3163, 1-
14-2013)
8-12-7: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the laws of the state of Montana and this code. A notice
shall be attached to any vehicle in violation of this chapter stating that it
has been parked in violation of this chapter and instructing the owner thereof
to pay to the city the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for such violation. If the
first such notice of violation is disregarded by failure to pay or appeal the
notice of violation, a second notice shall be mailed to the owner of record of
the vehicle, instructing the owner to pay to the city the sum of ten dollars
($10.00). If the second notice is disregarded, the director of parking and
traffic division shall institute proceedings for the prosecution of the
violation in municipal court. (Ord. 3163, 1-14-2013)
8-12-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
For any violation of this chapter, the registered owner of the vehicle at the
time of the violation shall be personally responsible. It shall be no defense
to such charge that the vehicle was illegally parked by another unless it is
shown that at such time the vehicle was being used without the consent of the
owner. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING IN CBD PARKING FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-13-1:   Authority Of Director Of Parking And Traffic Division
8-13-2:   Rental Of Off Street Parking Stalls
8-13-3:   Off Street Parking Revenue Collections
8-13-4:   Penalty
8-13-5:   Notice Of Violation
8-13-6:   Responsibility For Violation
8-13-1: AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR OF PARKING AND TRAFFIC DIVISION:
The director of the parking and traffic division is hereby authorized to
install devices in all city owned, off street parking areas, established or
hereafter established by the city commission, for the purpose of regulating the
parking of vehicles therein and in addition to these devices, the director of
parking and traffic is hereby authorized to issue permits for parking in city
owned, off street parking areas, established or hereafter established by the
city commission, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-13-2: RENTAL OF OFF STREET PARKING STALLS:
   A.   Times And Rates: Devices installed by the director of the parking and
traffic division in city owned, off street parking facilities pursuant hereto
shall require the deposit of either an authentic United States coin or a
specially minted token in amounts and for periods of legal parking time as
established from time to time by resolution of the city commission; and such
devices shall clearly notify persons operating vehicles as to when such
vehicles are and are not legally parked.
   B.   Monthly Parking Permits: The director of the parking and traffic
division shall issue to individuals permits and/or access control cards which,
when placed in vehicles, or used in access control mechanisms, shall entitle
the vehicles to be legally parked in a specified city owned, off street parking
area, established by, or hereafter established by, the city commission. Such
permits or cards shall be issued upon the payment of amounts, and for durations
of time, as established from time to time by resolution of the city commission.
Permits and/or cards which have been issued for specific off street parking
facilities shall not entitle the holders thereof to park in any other city
owned, off street parking facility unless payment is made for parking in more
than one such facility. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
   C.   Multi-Facility Parking Permits: The director of the parking and traffic
division shall issue to individuals permits which, when placed in vehicles,
shall entitle the vehicles to be legally parked in more than one specific off
street parking facility. Such permits shall be issued upon the payment of
amounts, for durations of time, and for the specific off street parking lots in
which the permits shall be effective, as established from time to time by
resolution of the city commission. (Ord. 2340, 4-16-1984)
   D.   Location Of Off Street Parking Permits: Off street parking permits
shall be displayed on the inside of the windshield of the displaying vehicle on
the lower left hand side where it is clearly visible from the outside of the
vehicle at all times. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
   E.   Group/Long Term Discount:
      1.   Group Discount: Whenever an individual or business entity purchases
ten (10) or more parking permits for a time period of one month or more, the
director of parking and traffic shall apply a five percent (5%) discount to the
total cost of said permits.
      2.   Long Term Discount: Whenever an individual or business entity
purchases one or more monthly parking permits for a time period of one year or
more, the director of parking and traffic shall apply a five percent (5%)
discount to the total cost of said permits. All permits purchased for one year
or more shall be paid in advance prior to receiving said discount.
      3.   Entitlement: Under no circumstances shall an individual, partnership
or corporation be entitled to both discounts announced in this section. (Ord.
2363, 3-18-1985)
8-13-3: OFF STREET PARKING REVENUE COLLECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the director of the parking and traffic division to
designate a person to make regular collections of the money deposited in all
off street parking collection devices, and to deliver the money to the city
treasurer who shall place it in a special fund to be known as the parking
maintenance and operation fund. Revenue collected in excess of the costs
necessary for parking maintenance and operation shall be deposited or
transferred to the parking reserve and depreciation fund of the city. Such
person making such collections shall be bonded in the sum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) to ensure the faithful performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-13-4: PENALTY:
Violation of any preceding section will result in a minimum fine of ten dollars
($10.00), and a maximum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 3163, 1-
14-2013)
8-13-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the laws of the state of Montana and this code. A notice
shall be attached to any vehicle in violation of this chapter stating that it
has been parked in violation of this chapter and instructing the owner thereof
to pay to the city the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for such violation. If the
first such notice of violation is disregarded by failure to pay or to appeal
the notice of violation, a second notice shall be mailed to the owner of record
of the vehicle, instructing the owner to pay to the city the sum of ten dollars
($10.00). If the second notice is disregarded, the director of the parking and
traffic division shall institute proceedings for the prosecution of the
violation in the municipal court. (Ord. 3163, 1-14-2013)
8-13-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
For any violation of this chapter, the registered owner of a vehicle at the
time of the violation shall be personally responsible. It shall be no defense
to such charge that the vehicle was illegally parked by another unless it is
shown that at such time the vehicle was being used without the consent of the
owner. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING, SPECIAL USE FACILITIES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
8-14-1:   Hotel Guest Zone Permit
8-14-2:   Permit For Loading Or Unloading By Backing To Curb
8-14-3:   Designation Of On Street Loading Zones
8-14-4:   Restrictions And Time Limits Upon Permission To Use On Street
Commercial Loading Zones
8-14-5:   Special Request For On Street Commercial Loading Zone
8-14-6:   Bus And Taxicab Zones
8-14-7:   Residential Parking Districts
8-14-8:   Courtesy Parking Tickets
8-14-9:   Convention Parking Permits
8-14-10:   Private Parking Facilities
8-14-11:   Airport Parking
8-14-12:   Removal, Impounding, Return Of Motor Vehicles
8-14-13:   Penalty
8-14-14:   Notice Of Violation
8-14-15:   Responsibility For Violation
8-14-1: HOTEL GUEST ZONE PERMIT:
   A.   Application For Hotel Zone Permit: The director of the parking and
traffic division shall not hereafter designate or sign any hotel guest zone
upon special request of any person unless such person makes written application
for a permit for such zone and for appropriate signs and curb markings to
indicate the ends of each such zone. The director may, by general regulations,
impose conditions upon the use of such signs and curb markings, and for the
reimbursement to the city for the value thereof in the event of their loss or
damage, and for the return of the signs in the event of misuse or upon
expiration of the permit.
   B.   Hotel Guest Zone Parking Restricted: No person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time in any zone marked as an
official hotel guest zone, unless actually engaged in loading or unloading of
merchandise or picking up or discharging passengers, and in no event shall a
person park or stand a vehicle in such zone for a period of time exceeding ten
(10) minutes. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-14-2: PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING BY BACKING TO CURB:
The Helena parking commission is authorized to issue special permits to allow
the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or construction materials subject to the terms and conditions of
such permit. These permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property, or the owner of the vehicle, and shall grant to the permittee the
privilege as therein stated and authorized, and it shall be unlawful for any
permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of
such permit. There shall be a fee for said permit. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff.
7-15-2013)
8-14-3: DESIGNATION OF ON STREET LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Director Of Parking And Traffic Division To Designate On Street Loading
Zones: The director of the parking and traffic division is hereby authorized to
determine and designate commercial loading zones and passenger loading zones as
follows:
      1.   At any place in any business district;
      2.   Elsewhere in front of the entrance to any place of business or in
front of any hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.
   B.   Signs And Curb Markings To Indicate On Street Loading Zones:
      1.   Commercial loading zones shall be indicated by a sign erected in
front of such zones stating "Loading Zone/Permit Required", and the curbs
adjacent to said loading zones shall be painted white.
      2.   Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by a sign erected in
front of such zones stating "Passenger Load And Unload Only", and the curbs
adjacent to said zones shall be painted white. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-14-4: RESTRICTIONS AND TIME LIMITS UPON PERMISSION TO USE ON STREET
COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Commercial vehicles using on street commercial loading zones must
obtain a permit from the Helena parking commission. The permit must be
displayed on the right front windshield of the commercial vehicle. Every such
permit expires at the end of each calendar year. The permit shall be issued
upon payment of an annual fee. No commercial loading zone permit shall be
issued to any commercial business or individual which does not possess a
current city general business license. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   B.   Permission granted under the provisions of this section to stop or
stand a vehicle for purposes of loading or unloading of materials in a
commercial on street loading zone, or to qualify for a commercial permit, shall
apply only to commercial delivery vehicles, and shall not extend beyond the
time necessary therefor for loading or unloading, and in no event for more than
twenty (20) consecutive minutes.
   C.   The loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
delivery and pick up, and to the delivery and pick up of express and parcel
post packages and United States mail.
   D.   The parking of any vehicle which does not display a current commercial
loading zone permit shall not be allowed in loading zones marked "Permit
Required" between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) P.M., Monday through Friday.
   E.   Within the total time limits specified, the provisions of this section
shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable loading or
unloading, but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby granted. (Ord.
2329, 1-16-1984)
8-14-5: SPECIAL REQUEST FOR ON STREET COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONE:
The Helena parking commission shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb as
a loading zone upon special request of any person unless such person makes
written application for such zone. The Helena parking commission, upon granting
a request, shall collect from the applicant, and deposit in the parking
maintenance and operation fund, a service fee per foot per year, or fraction
thereof, and may, by general regulations, impose conditions upon the use of
such loading zone. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-6: BUS AND TAXICAB ZONES:
   A.   Parking Of Buses And Taxicabs Regulated: The driver of a bus or taxicab
shall not park upon any street in the central business district at any place
other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this
provision shall not prevent the driver of any such vehicle from temporarily
stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations at any place
for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading of
passengers.
   B.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Zones: No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab zone when any such stop or zone has been officially designated and
appropriately signed.
   C.   Designation Of Bus And Taxicab Zones:
      1.   Any person duly and regularly licensed by the Montana public service
commission and possessed of a PSC certificate for the transportation of
passengers for hire, may be granted a bus or taxicab zone permit by the city
commission.
      2.   If the owner of the premises abutting such bus or taxicab zone shall
at any time file written objections to the maintenance of said zone, it shall
be discontinued within thirty (30) days thereafter.
      3.   A bus or taxicab zone permit shall not be issued for a zone within
twenty five feet (25') of an existing and licensed bus or taxicab zone. Said
bus or taxicab zones shall be on the streets of the city, at the curb, and of
such length and location as the director of the parking and traffic division
shall determine, and shall not be less than twenty two feet (22') in length so
as to permit said buses or taxicabs to enter and depart from said zones with
safety and dispatch. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
      4.   An annual permit fee shall be paid for bus and taxicab zones per
passenger motor vehicle space. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
      5.   Written application shall be made for bus or taxicab zones to the
city commission, and such applications shall state:
         a.   Name and address of the person making said application;
         b.   The license applied for - for buses or for taxicabs, or for
combination bus and taxicab space;
         c.   The PSC permit number owned by said applicant; and
         d.   The city general business license number for said applicant's
business. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-14-7: RESIDENTIAL PARKING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Creation Of Residential Parking Districts: Upon petition of affected
area residents, and after holding a public hearing, the city commission may
authorize, in its discretion, the designation of appropriate residential
streets as either "type A" residential parking districts, or "type B"
residential parking districts. On street parking adjacent to property located
within residential parking districts shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   "Type A" Residential Parking District: It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose longer than two (2)
hours, other than those vehicles displaying a valid "type A" residential
parking district permit in any "type A" residential parking district, when on
street parking adjacent to such district has been officially designated and
appropriately signed.
      2.   "Type B" Residential Parking District: It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose, other than those
vehicles displaying a valid "type B" residential parking district permit, when
on street parking adjacent to such district has been officially designated and
appropriately signed.
   B.   Residential Parking District Permits:
      1.   Each residential parking district applicant shall display the permit
issued by the director of the parking and traffic division on the inside of the
windshield of the displaying vehicle on the lower left hand side where it is
clearly visible from the outside of the vehicle at all times. Each permit shall
contain the address of the applicant, and the vehicle shall be parked within
one block of the applicant's address designated on the permit. (Ord. 2329, 1-
16-1984)
      2.   A residential parking district permit shall only be issued to a
person whose primary residence property abuts the street name and section
designated as a residential parking district by the commission. (Ord. 2554, 5-
7-1990)
      3.   Whenever such permit holder transfers or assigns his interest in
such vehicle or residence, the permit shall be removed and immediately
surrendered to the director of the parking and traffic division, together with
a copy of a transfer of interest in such vehicle or residence. If another
vehicle is acquired by the permit holder, a new permit shall be issued by the
director of the parking and traffic division.
      4.   A resident of a residential parking district may obtain temporary
guest parking permits for his or her guests. Every guest parking permit shall
contain the name and address of the resident, and said permits shall be
displayed in the same manner as residential parking permits. Holders of guest
parking permits must park their vehicles within one block of the address of the
person obtaining the guest parking permits. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
8-14-8: COURTESY PARKING TICKETS:
   A.   Any motor vehicle bearing a current license plate issued by any state
other than the state of Montana, or bearing license plates issued by any county
in the state of Montana other than the counties of Lewis And Clark, Jefferson
and Broadwater, and which vehicle is parked adjacent to an expired parking
meter, or parked in a city central business district parking facility without
proper payment for such parking, shall receive a courtesy parking ticket, and
shall not be subject to a fine for said parking infraction.
   B.   This section does not apply to any vehicle which has received three (3)
or more of these courtesy parking tickets within any continuous thirty (30) day
period, or which remains parked in the same position for two (2) or more hours
after receiving a courtesy parking ticket.
   C.   There shall be no fine or penalty attached to the issuance of a
courtesy parking ticket. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff.
7-15-2013)
8-14-9: CONVENTION PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Any motor vehicle, except a motor vehicle licensed in Lewis And Clark
County, Montana, displaying a current and valid convention sticker issued by
the director of the parking and traffic division, shall be entitled to park,
without the necessity of paying therefor, at any public parking lot or parking
meter maintained and operated by the city.
   B.   The director of the parking and traffic division is hereby directed to
produce convention stickers to facilitate the purpose of this section. To be
effective, said stickers shall be validated by the director of the parking and
traffic division, and furthermore, said stickers must clearly display their
expiration date. The director of parking and traffic is hereby authorized to
distribute free convention parking stickers to representatives of bona fide
conventions being held in the city. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-
10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-10: PRIVATE PARKING FACILITIES:
   A.   Written Agreement Restriction: Private property owners may enter into
written agreements with the city for enforcement of parking restrictions within
privately owned parking facilities.
   B.   Enforcement Of Private Parking Facilities: A restricted private parking
facility must have the particular restrictions properly marked at the entrance
to the lot or facility, or on the particular parking space so as to adequately
advise persons parking in the lot or space of the restrictions, and to advise
that said lot is patrolled by the city parking and traffic division.
No person shall park a vehicle in any private parking facility without the
express or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of said
property, or in violation of any restrictions posted at the entrance of said
private parking facility. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013,
eff. 7-15-2013)
   C.   Annual Enforcement Fee: An annual enforcement fee per parking stall per
month shall be assessed by the Helena parking commission for the enforcement of
parking restrictions in private parking facilities if the city has entered into
a written agreement to provide parking control and enforcement. All said fees
are to be deposited in the parking maintenance and operation fund. (Ord. 3177,
6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-11: AIRPORT PARKING:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle on Helena regional airport
property in violation of the regulations adopted by the joint city-county
airport board which regulations are incorporated herein by this reference.
(Ord. 2625, 12-9-1991; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-12: REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING, RETURN OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Motor vehicles parked in violation of any section of this chapter may be
removed and impounded by a city police officer, traffic control officer or
highway patrolman in accordance with the provisions of section
8-21-1 of this title. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-
15-2013)
8-14-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation of any preceding section will result in a minimum fine of
twenty five dollars ($25.00), and a maximum fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   B.   Airport parking violation penalties shall be as follows:
      1.   Short term parking: Minimum fine of two dollars ($2.00) and maximum
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      2.   Long term parking: Minimum fine of twenty dollars ($20.00) and
maximum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 3163, 1-14-2013; amd. Ord.
3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-14: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the laws of the state of Montana and this code. A notice
shall be attached to any vehicle in violation of this chapter stating that it
has been parked in violation of this chapter and instructing the owner thereof
to pay to the city the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for such violation.
If the first such notice of violation is disregarded by failure to pay or
appeal the notice of violation, a second notice shall be mailed to the owner of
record of the vehicle, instructing the owner to pay to the city the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). If the second notice is disregarded, the director
of the parking and traffic division shall institute proceedings for the
prosecution of the violation in municipal court. (Ord. 3163, 1-14-2013; amd.
Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
8-14-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATION:
For any violation of this chapter, the registered owner of the vehicle at the
time of the violation shall be personally responsible. It shall be no defense
to such charge that the vehicle was illegally parked by another unless it is
shown that at such time the vehicle was being used without the consent of the
owner. (Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984; amd. Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 15
TRUCKS
SECTION:
8-15-1:   Use Of Certain Streets Prohibited
8-15-1: USE OF CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The Helena city commission may, from time to time, as it deems to be in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare, designate that
certain streets and avenues in the city shall not be used by any truck
(freighter or over the road truck).
   B.   Any such designation shall be by resolution passed by the Helena city
commission.
   C.   Any such designation shall, before it becomes effective, be preceded by
adequate and appropriate signs on the streets in question. (Ord. 2328, 12-5-
1983)
CHAPTER 16
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 17
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 18
RESERVED
(Ord. 3053, 3-27-2006)
CHAPTER 19
RESERVED
(Ord. 3237, 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 20
PARKING PROHIBITION; EMERGENCY
(Rep. by Ord. 2329, 1-16-1984)
CHAPTER 21
IMPOUNDMENT, TOWING OR IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-21-1:   Impoundment
8-21-2:   Authorization To Tow Or Immobilize Vehicle
8-21-3:   Immobilization Procedure
8-21-4:   Release To Owner
8-21-5:   Hearing
8-21-1: IMPOUNDMENT:
When any owner or possessor of an automobile has violated any of the parking
provisions contained in this title, and in order to enforce traffic regulations
violated it becomes necessary for possession of the automobile to be taken, the
procedure shall be as follows:
   A.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to take possession of any motor
vehicle owned by any person who has violated, as to said vehicle, any of the
traffic regulations of this city, and has authority to remove such vehicle from
the streets, alleys or public places, where the violation occurred, and to
store and keep possession thereof until the owner of such vehicle appears and
claims the same. The cost of towing or removing such vehicle and the costs of
storing the same shall be chargeable against the vehicle and the owner thereof
and shall be paid by the owner of said vehicle before the same shall be
released. The vehicle may be stored in a public or private place; if in a
public place, the storage charges shall be the amount charged for such public
storage; if stored on city property, a storage charge will be collected by the
city for the time said vehicle is in the possession of the police department.
   B.   Upon taking possession of any such vehicle, the police department shall
notify the owner thereof that such vehicle has been impounded and is being held
for the towing and storage charges. This notice shall be given to the person to
whom said vehicle is licensed in accordance with the registration list
furnished by the registrar of motor vehicles. The notice shall be given by
certified mail and a charge for the giving of such notice shall be collected at
the time the vehicle is returned to the owner thereof. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013,
eff. 7-15-2013)
   C.   The taking of possession of a vehicle for a traffic violation shall not
prohibit the filing of a complaint for the traffic violation in addition to the
impounding of the vehicle as hereinabove provided.
   D.   If the vehicle is not claimed and all charges paid within thirty (30)
days after the police officer has taken possession of such vehicle an action
may be commenced in the municipal court before the judge or in any other court
by the city attorney, in the name of the city as plaintiff, and against the
name of the owner as defendant for the amount of the charges due and after
judgment is obtained in favor of the city said vehicle may be levied upon and
sold for the purpose of satisfying the judgment as required by law. Any vehicle
held in possession of the police department as a result of a violation of any
parking provision of this title for a period of two (2) months, unclaimed by
the owner or when the owner is unknown, shall be sold by the chief of police at
public auction to the highest bidder after publication of a notice of sale in
at least one publication of a newspaper published in the city, said notice
specifying the description of the vehicle to be sold, date and place of sale,
said date of sale to be not less than ten (10) days nor more than fifteen (15)
days from the first date of publication. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
8-21-2: AUTHORIZATION TO TOW OR IMMOBILIZE VEHICLE:
In addition to, or as an alternative to towing, the HPC is authorized to use a
vehicle immobilizer ("boot") to immobilize any vehicle that is parked in a city
parking space or along any right of way within the city limits and that has an
unpaid parking ticket for parking in an accessible space for persons with
disabilities or other unpaid parking tickets, provided that the HPC has sent
the registered owner of the vehicle a final written notice of the unpaid
parking tickets or a citation has been issued through municipal court charging
the registered owner with unpaid parking tickets and no person has appeared
pursuant to the citation. (Ord. 3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
8-21-3: IMMOBILIZATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   If the HPC chooses to immobilize a vehicle with a boot as allowed by
section
8-21-2 of this chapter, then the HPC shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle
a notice in writing notifying the owner, driver or person in charge of the
vehicle:
      1.   That the vehicle has been immobilized by the city for violation of
one or more provisions of this title;
      2.   That release from immobilization may be obtained at a designated
place;
      3.   That unless arrangements are made for the release of the vehicle
within forty eight (48) hours, the vehicle will be impounded and towed as
provided in section
8-21-1 of this chapter; and
      4.   That removing or attempting to remove the immobilization device from
the vehicle, or removing or attempting to move the vehicle from the place at
which the immobilization device was affixed to the vehicle before a release is
obtained is unlawful. (Ord. 3011, 2-14-2005)
   B.   It is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code for any person to remove or attempt to remove any
immobilization device or to move any immobilized vehicle from the place at
which the immobilization device was affixed to the vehicle before a release is
obtained from the HPC. An immobilized vehicle may not be released by the HPC
until a fee for the immobilization is paid, together with payment of all
outstanding parking fines, or posting of bond as allowed by subsection
8-21-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 3177, 6-10-2013, eff. 7-15-2013)
   C.   If the vehicle remains immobilized for a period of forty eight (48)
hours and a release has not been obtained, then the HPC may have the vehicle
impounded and towed as provided in section
8-21-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 3011, 2-14-2005)
8-21-4: RELEASE TO OWNER:
   A.   No immobilized or towed vehicle will be released without satisfactory
proof of ownership.
   B.   The owner of an immobilized or towed vehicle may secure its release by
posting a bond equal to the amount of the total unpaid fines for the vehicle at
the time of the immobilization or towing, plus the immobilization or towing
fee. (Ord. 3011, 2-14-2005)
8-21-5: HEARING:
   A.   After a vehicle has been immobilized pursuant to this chapter, the
registered owner and any other persons who reasonably appear to have an
interest in the vehicle are entitled to a speedy hearing in municipal court to
determine if the vehicle was immobilized in accordance with sections
8-21-1 and
8-21-2 of this chapter. Such hearing must be requested within five (5) days of
the immobilization or towing. The hearing must be held as soon as all parties
can be present, but no more than ten (10) business days after the request is
made.
   B.   If the court finds that the immobilization was invalid or unjustified,
the court shall order the vehicle released immediately, and the owner or any
other persons who have an interest in the vehicle will not be held liable for
the immobilization fee.
   C.   If the court finds that the immobilization was valid and justified, the
court shall order that the immobilization device remain on the vehicle until
payment is received for the immobilization fee and all unpaid parking tickets,
or the court will order forfeiture of the bond posted, plus fees for towing and
storage, if appropriate. However, when a vehicle with an immobilization device
attached remains immobilized for a period of forty eight (48) hours and a
release has not been obtained, the vehicle will be towed and impounded.
   D.   The decision of the court is the final decision by the city. (Ord.
3121, 1-11-2010, eff. 3-1-2010)
TITLE 9
PARADES, SPECIAL EVENTS, TOURS, AND VENDORS
CHAPTER 1
REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application And Permit
9-1-2: Fees
9-1-3: Alcohol Permit
9-1-4: Vehicles
9-1-5: Permit Conditions
9-1-6: Indemnification
9-1-7: Insurance
9-1-8: Multi-Year Agreements
9-1-9: Multiple Events Within A Range Of Dates
9-1-1: APPLICATION AND PERMIT:
A.   A permit is required from the Transportation Systems Department for any
applicant to conduct or hold a parade, special event, tour, or sell any
merchandise or food or beverages on all City Rights-of-Way or City owned
property. This code provision applies to any applicant who desires to operate a
tour using a bus, taxi, or limousine such as a pedal pub motorized bus or a
tour train on city rights-of-way.
B.   Application for a parade, special event, tour, or vendor permit must be
received by the Transportation Systems Department as follows:
   1.   Minimum thirty (30) days prior to the start of events expecting less
than one thousand (1000) participants, spectators, and event staff.
   2.   Minimum ninety (90) days prior to the start of events expecting one
thousand (1000) or more participants, spectators, and event staff. (Ord. 3309,
5-8-2023)
9-1-2: FEES:
   A.   In order to mitigate costs of reviewing applications and staff time
issuing permits, the applicant must pay a fee, as established by the City
Commission, at the time of application for a parade, special event, tour, or
vendor permit.
   B.   Upon payment of the permit fee, the applicant will be allowed a one-
hour meeting with City staff to discuss the logistics and requirements for
conducting the special event. For any required meeting time over one hour, the
applicant must pay an hourly charge as established by the Commission. (Ord.
3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-3: ALCOHOL PERMIT:
   A.   The applicant for a parade, special event, tour, or vendor permit in
which alcohol will be purchased and consumed must obtain an alcohol permit
pursuant to this section.
   B.   Issuance of an alcohol permit that allows for the waiver of City open
container prohibitions contained in section
5-1-1 is conditioned on the following:
      1.   The permit application must specify the location for allowing
alcoholic beverage consumption. All alcoholic beverages must be served and
consumed within a confined area, whether it be roped, fenced, or otherwise
contained and clearly designated, as provided in the application and/or
agreement.
      2.   The applicant must submit a damage deposit, in the amount as set by
the City Commission, to the City Manager or designee to ensure that the area in
which the alcoholic beverages are to be served or consumed is left in a clean
and undamaged condition after its use. Upon termination of the use, if the area
is clean and no damage has incurred, the deposit will be returned to the
applicant.
      3.   The applicant must comply with all rules and regulations, and obtain
all necessary licenses, pertaining to the serving and/or allowing the
consumption of alcoholic beverages as promulgated by the State, County of Lewis
and Clark, or the City of Helena. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-4: VEHICLES:
No vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination weight
rating, or gross combination weight of fourteen thousand (14,000) (exceeds
Class 4) or more are permitted in conjunction with a parade, special event,
tour, or vendor permit, unless such vehicle is separately permitted through the
Transportation Systems Department. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-5: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
Issuance of a permit, pursuant to this section, is conditioned upon the
following:
   A.   The applicant must provide proof of receipt of all necessary licenses
required by the State, the County of Lewis and Clark, and/or the City prior to
a permit being issued.
   B.   The applicant must acknowledge, through signature on the application,
that the final approved application constitutes an agreement between the
applicant and the City for the special event as outlined and approved in the
application. Any violations of the application’s conditions and permit,
including the alcohol permit waiver, will be grounds for immediate revocation
of the permit, and closure of the special event, at the discretion of city
staff.
   C.   For events that are expected to have one thousand (1000) or more
spectators or participants, applicant will be required to sign an agreement
with the City for the event prior to the first day of the event. The terms and
conditions of the agreement will be specifically agreed upon between the
parties and must abide by the provisions of this Title. The City, at its sole
discretion, may impose other safety requirements upon the special events, such
as safety barriers, traffic markers, presence of safety personnel, etc.
   D.   The applicant must provide proof of insurance as provided in this
Title.
   E.   Violation of conditions of the application, agreement or permit can
result in immediate revocation of the permit, and immediate closure of the
special event, at the discretion of city staff. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-6: INDEMNIFICATION:
The applicant must indemnify, defend, and hold the City and its employees and
agents harmless against all claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense
incurred by the City due to any injury to or death of any person or any damage
to property caused by or resulting from the activities for which the permit is
granted. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-7: INSURANCE:
As evidence of the applicant’s ability to perform the conditions of the permit,
applicant shall provide proof of applicant’s liability insurance issued by a
reliable company or companies for personal injury and property damage, in an
amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate per year for bodily injury, personal
injury, and property damage, with the City named as an additional insured.
(Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-8: MULTI-YEAR AGREEMENTS:
   A.   At the discretion of the City Manager, a multi-year agreement may be
authorized when a parade, special event, tour, or vendor permit is likely to be
requested/occur for every year and there are no material changes anticipated
for the event/permit from year to year.
   B.   Agreements may be implemented for a term not to exceed five (5) years
if no material changes occur from year to year to the event that is the subject
of the agreement during the term of the Agreement.
   C.   The applicant shall update non-material information and shall submit a
permit fee from year to year, prior to the first day of the event.
   D.   If material changes to the special event occur, the applicant must
reapply for a special event permit, and the agreement is void.
   E.   Failure to update the provisions of an agreement for a special event
could result in revocation and immediate closure of a special event.
   F.   Failure to remit payment for each year of a multi-year agreement could
result in revocation of a permit to conduct a special event and immediate
closure of a special event. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
9-1-9: MULTIPLE EVENTS WITHIN A RANGE OF DATES:
Applicants for special events that will occur multiple times within a range of
dates, such as a pedal pub motorized bus or a tour train, must sign an
agreement covering the conditions that apply to every occurrence within that
authorized range of dates. If the event cannot comply with the conditions of
the agreement, it is not authorized to occur. The agreement shall be entered in
compliance with all provisions of this code. (Ord. 3309, 5-8-2023)
TITLE 10
LIGHTING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1
LIGHTING GENERALLY
SECTION:
10-1-1:   Purpose And Intent
10-1-2:   Conformance With Applicable Codes
10-1-3:   Definitions
10-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this title to encourage lighting practices and
systems which will minimize light pollution, glare, and light trespass;
conserve energy and resources while maintaining nighttime safety, utility, and
security; and reverse the degradation of the nighttime visual environment. It
is recognized that the topography, atmospheric conditions, and nature of the
city are unique and valuable to the community. The city, through the provisions
contained in this title, promotes the reduction of light pollution that
interferes with enjoyment of the night sky. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-1-2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES 1 :
All outdoor electrical lighting systems shall be installed in conformance with
the provisions of this title, the latest adopted versions of the building code,
the national electrical code, and all other applicable laws. If there are
conflicts between any code requirements, the more restrictive requirements will
apply. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3 of this code.
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this title, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, mean as follows:
   COMMERCIAL: Property or structure thereon that is used for any purpose other
than residential.
   DIRECT GLARE SOURCE: Light that originates in a direct line of sight from a
light source that results in objectionable glare.
   EXISTING STREET LIGHTING: Those streetlight fixtures in operation as of
March 1, 2000.
   FIXTURE: The assembly that holds the lamp in a lighting system. It includes
the elements designed to give light output control, such as a reflector
(mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast housing, and the attachment parts.
   HISTORIC STREETLIGHT: Streetlight fixtures manufactured before January 1,
1950.
   HORIZONTAL CUTOFF: Fixtures that are designed in such a manner that light
rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp, lens, or housing,
are only projected below a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on
the light source.
   LIGHT SOURCE: Artificial light emitted directly from a fixture lamp, lens,
or mirror. Light which is reflected after leaving the fixture does not
constitute a light source.
   LIGHT TRESPASS: Any form of artificial illumination emanating from a light
fixture that penetrates other property and creates a direct glare source that
exceeds 0.5 foot-candles in a vertical plane at the subject property line.
   RESIDENTIAL: A property or structure containing less than five (5) dwelling
units that is used primarily as a dwelling place.
   STREETLIGHT: An outdoor light fixture located within a public right of way
irrespective of ownership. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000; amd. Ord. 3119, 12-7-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIFIED LIGHTING
SECTION:
10-2-1:   Residential Lighting
10-2-2:   Commercial Lighting
10-2-3:   Feature Lighting
10-2-4:   American Flag Illumination
10-2-5:   Construction Sites
10-2-6:   Exemptions
10-2-1: RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING:
   A.   Except as further provided, an exterior residential light fixture
installed or replaced after March 1, 2000, must use a horizontal cutoff. This
requirement does not apply to any exterior residential lighting fixture
producing two thousand eight hundred fifty (2,850) average lumens (equivalent
of a 150-watt incandescent bulb) or less.
   B.   Exterior residential lighting may not result in light trespass on
adjacent property.
   C.   The height of an exterior residential light fixture may not exceed the
structure height permitted in the zoning district wherein the fixture is
located. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-2-2: COMMERCIAL LIGHTING:
   A.   Commercial lighting installed after March 1, 2000, must use a
horizontal cutoff. Commercial lighting installed prior to March 1, 2000, may
not be used without a horizontal cutoff after January 1, 2010.
   B.   A commercial lighting fixture attached to a pole may not exceed a
height of thirty four feet (34') from the ground to the bottom of the fixture.
The fixture height must be brought into conformance at the time of the
replacement of the pole.
   C.   The light source in a commercial fixture may not emit an illumination
of more than thirty (30) candle feet as measured three feet (3') above ground
level at any point underneath the fixture.
   D.   Exterior commercial lighting may not result in light trespass on
adjacent property.
   E.   The requirements for commercial lights using a horizontal cutoff do not
apply to:
      1.   Fixtures producing two thousand eight hundred fifty (2,850) average
lumens (equivalent of a 150-watt incandescent bulb) or less; and
      2.   Sign lighting.
   F.   The height of an exterior commercial light fixture may not exceed the
structure height permitted in the zoning district wherein the fixture is
located. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-2-3: FEATURE LIGHTING:
Monuments, natural terrestrial features, and buildings may be illuminated by
upward directed light, providing:
   A.   The light beam is narrowly focused so as not to exceed the width and
height upon the object being illuminated;
   B.   The light is directed on the feature being lit and not directly
upwards; and
   C.   The illumination does not constitute a trespass or glare that is
objectionable to neighboring properties. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-2-4: AMERICAN FLAG ILLUMINATION:
The American flag may be illuminated by upward directed light that is focused
only onto the flag and by a light source that does not exceed two hundred sixty
five thousand (265,000) mean lumens. (Ord. 2964, 6-2-2003)
10-2-5: CONSTRUCTION SITES:
The city manager may grant temporary exemptions from the provisions of this
title for lighting of construction sites, including night security during
construction, upon consideration of a lighting mitigation plan submitted by the
owner of the construction site or the owner's representative. Criteria for
approval include duration, number, location, and height of each light source,
and hours of operation. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-2-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The following types of lighting are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Temporary Lighting For Events: Temporary lighting for circuses,
carnivals, fairs and other events that does not constitute a light trespass to
neighboring property is exempt from this title during the duration of the
event.
   B.   Seasonal Lighting: Seasonal lighting used for the celebration of
commonly acknowledged holidays and special events, so long as it does not
constitute a light trespass.
   C.   Airport And Emergency Lighting: Lighting for runways at airports,
illumination of towers and other tall structures for aircraft warnings and
other aeronautical lighting is exempt from this title. Lights used during
emergencies or by police, fire, public works and public utility personnel in
their official duties are exempt from this title.
   D.   Public Recreational Lighting: Public recreational lighting. (Ord. 2889,
1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 3
STREET LIGHTING
SECTION:
10-3-1:   Street Lighting; Standard
10-3-2:   Nonconformance
10-3-3:   Exempt Fixtures
10-3-1: STREET LIGHTING; STANDARD:
   A.   Light Configuration: All street lighting must be configured with a
horizontal cutoff, and positioned so as to minimize any objectionable direct
glare source and not create light trespass.
   B.   Bulb Type: Mercury vapor bulbs or lamps may not be used in
streetlights. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-3-2: NONCONFORMANCE:
   A.   All existing street lighting fixtures not otherwise exempt that are in
violation of this chapter are permitted as nonconforming street lighting until
fixtures are replaced. Any replacement of a fixture on a nonconforming
streetlight must comply with this title. Historic streetlights may be repaired
or replaced with nonconforming fixtures without losing nonconforming status.
   B.   The city manager shall submit an updated plan with regular updates to
the city commission for its approval to bring street lighting fixtures into
compliance with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 3119, 12-7-2009)
10-3-3: EXEMPT FIXTURES:
   A.   Traffic signals and other traffic safety and control devices are exempt
from the requirements of this title.
   B.   Historic streetlights are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
Historic street lighting must, to the extent possible, utilize and orient the
lighting so as to accommodate the aesthetic values of the surrounding area
while minimizing light trespass.
   C.   Low amperage decorative lighting used to illuminate pedestrian pathways
and walking malls are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2889,
1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 4
PROHIBITIONS, PENALTY AND SEVERABILITY
SECTION:
10-4-1:   Prohibitions
10-4-2:   Complaint And Notice Of Violation Procedure
10-4-3:   Violation And Civil Penalty
10-4-4:   Severability
10-4-1: PROHIBITIONS:
The installation of any mercury vapor light fixture, lamp or replacement bulb
for use as an outdoor light is prohibited. Mercury vapor lamps in use for
outdoor lighting for residential, commercial or municipal uses on February 23,
2000, may not be used after January 1, 2010. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-4-2: COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION PROCEDURE:
Only an owner or occupant of private property containing light trespass from a
light may file a complaint with the city. Within ten (10) working days from the
filing of the complaint, the city shall investigate if the light is causing
light trespass on private property. If the light is causing light trespass, the
city shall order the owner of the streetlight to remedy the light trespass.
(Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-4-3: VIOLATION AND CIVIL PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to install or operate any lighting fixture in violation of
this title. Any violation of any provision of this title may be treated as a
municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty of not more than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each violation and other alternative relief from the court
as provided by law. Each day the infraction exists constitutes a separate
violation. (Ord. 2889, 1-24-2000)
10-4-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this title or the application thereof is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or applications of this title,
and the provisions of this title are declared to be severable. (Ord. 2889, 1-
24-2000)
TITLE 11
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-1-1:   Title
11-1-2:   Definitions
11-1-3:   Official Zoning Map
11-1-4:   Prezoning
11-1-5:   Administration
11-1-6:   Zoning Commission
11-1-7:   Determination Of Zoning District Boundaries
11-1-8:   Determination Of Use Classification
11-1-9:   Zoning Appeals
11-1-10:   Amendments
11-1-11:   Severability
11-1-12:   Fees
11-1-13:   Violations
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be cited as the HELENA ZONING REGULATIONS. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this title, unless otherwise defined in a particular chapter:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future.
   B.   Words or phrases used in the singular number include the plural and
words used in the plural include the singular.
   C.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory and not permissive.
   D.   The word "may" is permissive.
   E.   Where terms are not defined, they have their ordinary accepted meanings
within the context in which they are used. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the official
zoning map which, together with the certificate attached thereto, and together
with all amendments, changes and certifications thereof, is hereby adopted and
declared to be a part of this title as if described in detail.
   B.   The official zoning map must be displayed at all times in the office of
the clerk of the city commission and bear a certificate with the signature of
the mayor, the certification of the city clerk, and the date of the adoption of
this title. If any changes to the map are made by amendment in accordance with
this title, such changes must be made to the map and signed and certified upon
the map or upon the material attached thereto. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-4: PREZONING:
   A.   All territory to be annexed into the city must first be prezoned, and
the zoning must be consistent with the designated land uses for such territory
as set forth in the growth policy.
   B.   Prezoning applications are filed with the community development
department and any required fees must be paid upon submission of an
application.
   C.   The zoning commission shall hold a public hearing and make a
recommendation to the city commission.
   D.   The city commission shall determine the appropriate zoning and pass an
ordinance establishing the zoning, which zoning is effective upon the date of
annexation. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager, the director of community development, and their authorized
representatives shall administer and enforce this title. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-6: ZONING COMMISSION:
The zoning commission will hold public hearings and provide recommendations to
the city commission, for prezoning, zone changes, conditional use permits and
amendments to this title. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-7: DETERMINATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Streets and alleys that are dedicated to the public and exist as
travelways are not considered zoned.
   B.   If ambiguity arises concerning the location of the boundary of any
zoning district shown on the official zoning map, any person may request an
interpretation from the director of the community development department.
   C.   The department shall follow the rules of interpretation listed in this
section in determining the location of a boundary of a zoning district. This
preliminary interpretation is advisory in nature and does not constitute an
order, requirement, decision, or determination under section 76-2-323 Montana
Code Annotated. A written copy of each such interpretation shall be kept on
file with the community development department.
   D.   The location of the boundary of any zoning district shall be
interpreted as following the nearest logical lines to that shown. This includes
platted lot lines, city limit lines, edge of dedicated public rights of way, or
stream or water centerlines. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-8: DETERMINATION OF USE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use within the meaning and intent of this title, or if a specific
use is not listed, any person proposing to conduct such use may request an
interpretation from the director of the community development department.
   B.   The department shall follow the rules of interpretation listed in this
section in determining the classification of a particular use. This preliminary
interpretation is advisory in nature and does not constitute an order,
requirement, decision, or determination under section 76-2-323 Montana Code
Annotated. A written copy of each such interpretation shall be kept on file
with the community development department.
   C.   The determination of which zoning districts a previously unclassified
use will be classified as permitted must be based upon whether the unclassified
use is similar to and compatible with other uses permitted in the zoning
district. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-9: ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   The preliminary interpretation of the director of the community
development department may be appealed, in writing, to the city manager for a
final decision.
   B.   Written notice of appeal of the city manager's decision may be made to
the board of adjustment within twenty (20) calendar days.
   C.   The board of adjustment shall hold a public hearing in order to obtain
facts and information from all interested parties, the community development
department, and any other pertinent city agency. The director of the community
development department shall submit the preliminary interpretation, together
with any pertinent information, to the board of adjustment in the form of a
recommendation.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing,
give public notice, and due notice to the parties in interest. Public notice
must be published in an official newspaper, or a newspaper of general
circulation, in the city.
   E.   The board of adjustment may continue any hearing if necessary to obtain
additional facts and information; in such case, a second legal notice is not
required if the time, date, and location of the continued hearing are announced
at the hearing and placed in the official record. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-10: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Whenever the owner of any land or building desires a zone change or
change in the boundaries of any district, the owner may request a zone change.
Such request is filed with the community development department on an
application form provided by the city for this purpose. The application must be
duly signed and verified by the applicant, who shall pay any required fee.
   B.   For amendments to the Helena zoning regulations or zone changes, the
zoning commission shall hold a public hearing to obtain facts and information
from all interested parties. At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and
place of such hearing must be published in an official newspaper, or a
newspaper of general circulation, in the city.
   C.   The zoning commission may continue the hearing if necessary to obtain
additional facts and information. If the hearing is continued, a second legal
notice is not required if the time, date, and location of the continued hearing
are announced at the hearing and placed in the official record of the zoning
commission.
   D.   The zoning commission recommendation must be based upon information
presented at a public hearing and information contained in the application.
   E.   The zoning commission shall send the city commission its recommendation
on the application, together with any and all pertinent facts in regard to the
application and its recommendation. The applicant shall be given a true and
exact copy of the zoning commission's recommendation at least three (3) days
prior to the city commission hearing on the application.
   F.   The city commission shall hold a public hearing on the application, at
which time the zoning commission's recommendation is considered and public
testimony received. The city commission may by ordinance approve, deny or
change the recommendation of the zoning commission.
   G.   The recommendations of the zoning commission, and the decisions of the
city commission, are based upon the considerations and factors set forth in
sections 76-2-301 through 76-2-305 Montana Code Annotated. The city commission
shall set forth its reasons in written findings and conclusions giving due
consideration to each of the matters set forth in section 76-2-304 Montana Code
Annotated. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this title is declared invalid or unlawful by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unlawfulness or invalidity does not affect the
validity of this title in its entirety or any of the remaining portions. (Ord.
3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-12: FEES:
The community development department shall collect fees before commencing
required review procedures. The schedule of fees is posted in the office of the
community development department. The fees may be altered or amended only by
the city commission by resolution after a public hearing. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-1-13: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint that states fully the causes
and basis of the complaint, which is filed with the community development
department, who will investigate and take appropriate enforcement action.
   B.   If the director of community development or other staff finds that any
provision of this title is being violated, the person responsible for such
violation is to be notified and ordered to take corrective action.
   C.   Violating any of the provisions of this title, or failing to comply
with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this title or fails to comply with any of its requirements may, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in addition
may be ordered to pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues is considered a separate offense and punishable as
such.
   D.   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, and an
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person, who purposely or
knowingly commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains any such
violation, are accountable for violations under this title and may suffer the
penalties herein provided.
   E.   If a violation of this title occurs, the city, in addition to other
remedies, may institute other appropriate actions or proceedings:
      1.   To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use;
      2.   To restrain, correct, or abate such violation;
      3.   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
such premises; and
      4.   To prevent the occupancy of any such building, structure, or land.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 2
LAND USES
SECTION:
11-2-1:   General Provisions
11-2-2:   Intent Of Zoning Districts
11-2-3:   Land Use Table For Zoning Districts
11-2-4:   Land Use Definitions For Zoning Districts
11-2-5:   Supplemental Requirements
11-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   A structure or parcel of land may not be used for any purpose unless
that use is shown in section
11-2-3, table 1 of this chapter as permitted in the district in which the
structure or land is located. An accessory use that is incidental and secondary
to the principal use is permitted in any district in which the principal use is
permitted.
   B.   These regulations are minimum regulations and apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure or land, except as otherwise provided in this title.
   C.   A building, structure, or parcel of land may not be used or occupied
unless it conforms to all of the regulations specified in this chapter for the
district in which the use is located.
   D.   All planned unit development districts and the approved development
plans that were in existence prior to enactment of this title remain in
existence and their development plans remain in effect, but they are subject to
amendment or adjustment in accordance with this title.
   E.   Any of the following zoning districts may be overlaid by, or subjected
to the regulations of, certain other districts established by this title in
accordance with the provisions thereof.
   F.   The off street loading and parking, landscaping, screening, and
dimensional requirements of this title are required unless specifically
exempted in those respective chapters. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-2-2: INTENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The city is hereby divided and classified into the following zoning districts
that are intended to provide for development in conformance with the system of
services available, the slope of the land, or any other limiting factors to
serve such development while preserving the quality of the area. These zoning
districts are described as follows:
   A.   The OSR (open space/residential) district primarily provides for
residential development consistent with physical constraints, the natural
capacity of the land, and available public and private services. The
regulations seek to minimize danger from wildland fires, stormwater flooding,
soil erosion, and other environmental hazards. The regulations also seek to
mitigate traffic hazards, protect the natural scenic character of hillside
areas, promote the safety and well being of property owners, and ensure the
efficient expenditure of public funds.
   B.   The R-1/R-2 (residential) districts provide for residential dwellings
and limited nonresidential development that protects and enhances the
residential nature of the area.
   C.   The R-3 (residential) district provides for the development of a
mixture of residential structures to serve varied housing needs and allows
limited compatible nonresidential uses.
   D.   The R-4/R-O (residential-office) districts provide for a compatible mix
of higher density residential development with professional and business
offices and associated service uses.
   E.   The R-U (residential-urban) districts provide for stand alone single or
duplex structures, and a compatible mix of professional and business offices
and associated service uses.
   F.   The B-1 (neighborhood business) district provides for a compatible
mixture of residential, public, and small scale commercial uses that serve as
transitions between zoning districts.
   G.   The B-2 (general commercial) district provides for compatible
residential uses and a broad range of commercial and service uses that serve
large areas of the City and that are normally required to sustain a community.
   H.   The B-3 (Central Business) District is the central focus of the City's
business, government, service, and cultural activities, and allows compatible
residential development.
   I.   The DT (Downtown) District is intended to encourage the creation and
preservation of mixed-use development opportunities, including a wide range of
housing options serving a wide range of incomes and demographics; to provide
for the protection and enhancement of historic and cultural resources; to
establish minimum requirements and responsibilities for the installation of
public improvements in support of redevelopment; and to encourage desirable
site design for all development occurring in the district. These aspects are
all essential for the development of a diverse, dynamic and desirable city
environment.
   J.   The TR (Transitional Residential) District is intended to provide a
buffer between the mixed-use, urban core of Helena, the Downtown (DT) District,
and the residential districts bordering it to the east and west by offering
ground-floor story residential uses by right and a height limitation to ease
structure height differentials between the Downtown District and surrounding
districts.
   K.   The CLM (Commercial-Light Manufacturing) District provides for the
community's commercial and light manufacturing needs. These uses generally need
access to the City's transportation amenities and should be located to reduce
adverse impacts upon residential neighborhoods in the City.
   L.   The M-I (Manufacturing and Industrial) District provides for
manufacturing and other industrial uses.
   M.   The PLI (Public Lands and Institutions) District provides for and
applies only to public and quasi-public institutional uses and lands, and
recreational, educational, and public service activities for the general
benefit of the citizens of the City.
   N.   The T (Transitional) District provides for an orderly and harmonious
transition between zoning districts where appropriate. Each Transitional
District has unique standards and is intended to be temporary and phased out
over time.
   O.   The Airport District provides for airport uses and facilities necessary
for the operation, maintenance, and protection of airports. Associated retail
and service uses, public institutional uses, aeronautical related
manufacturing, public service, and limited recreational activities are also
permitted.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3222, 9-26-2016; amd. Ord. 3256, 6-24-2019)
11-2-3: LAND USE TABLE FOR ZONING DISTRICTS:
Permitted, conditionally permitted, and not permitted uses for the zoning
districts are shown in table 1 of this section. The key for this table is as
follows:
 
P   = The use is permitted in the district by right, consistent with applicable
      development standards.
CUP = The use is allowed in the district through the conditional use process.
NP  = The use is not permitted in the district.
 
TABLE 1
PRINCIPAL LAND USES BY DISTRICT
Use OSR R-U R-1/ R-3 R-4/ B-1 B-2 B-3 DT TR CLM M-I PLI Airport Supplemental
            R-2      R-O                                        Requirements
                           R-      R-                                         Supplemental
Use                OSR R-U 1/  R-3 4/  B-1 B-2 B-3 DT  TR CLM M-I PLI Airport Requirements
                           R-2     R-O
Residential uses:                                                
                                                                              B-2, B-3,
                                                                              CLM, and M-
                                                                              I districts,
                                                                              see
  Community                                                                   subsection
  residential                                                                 11-2-5A of
 facility, type   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  CUP NP  NP  NP      this chapter
  I, 1 - 12                                                                   DT and TR
  residents                                                                   districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsections
                                                                              11-2-5A and
                                                                              11-2-5B of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              B-2, B-3,
                                                                              CLM, and M-
                                                                              I districts,
                                                                              see
  Community                                                                   subsection
  residential                                                                 11-2-5A of
 facility, type   NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  CUP NP  P   NP      this chapter
  II, 13 or more                                                              DT and TR
  residents                                                                   districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsections
                                                                              11-2-5A and
                                                                              11-2-5B of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              See chapter
 Mobile home park NP  CUP CUP CUP P   CUP CUP NP  NP  NP NP  NP  NP  NP      7 of this
                                                                              title
                                                                              B-2, B-3,
                                                                              and CLM,
                                                                              districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsection
  Residence,                                                                  11-2-5A of
 single-dwelling  P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  NP      this chapter
  unit                                                                        DT and TR
                                                                              districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsections
                                                                              11-2-5A and
                                                                              11-2-5B of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              B-2, B-3,
                                                                              CLM, and M-
                                                                              I districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5A of
 Residence, two-  CUP P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  NP      this chapter
  dwelling units                                                              DT and TR
                                                                              districts,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsections
                                                                              11-2-5A and
                                                                              11-2-5B of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              For the DT
  Residence,                                                                  and TR
  multiple-                                                                   districts,
 dwelling units   NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P   P   P  CUP NP  NP  NP      see
  (3 or more                                                                  subsections
  units)                                                                      11-2-5A and
                                                                              11-2-5B of
                                                                              this chapter
Nonresidential                                                                 
uses:
 Agricultural                                                                 
  uses:
  Community      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    Gardens
  Commercial     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    Nursery
  Horticulture   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
 Community                                                                    
  services/uses:
    Administrative
  government     NP  P   NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   P        
    agency
  Animal shelter NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   P   P   NP       
  Community      NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   NP       
    center
    Community
  cultural       NP  CUP CUP CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P  NP  NP  P   P        
    facility
  Correctional   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP CUP CUP NP       
    facility
  Prerelease     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP CUP CUP CUP NP P   NP  CUP NP       
    center
  Public safety  CUP CUP CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    facility
  Worship        NP  P   CUP P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   NP       
    facility
 Education:                                                                   
    Kindergarten,
  Pre-schools,   NP  P   P   P   P   CUP CUP P   P   P  NP  NP  P   NP       
    Elementary
    Schools
  Middle Schools NP  P   P   P   P   CUP CUP P   P   P  NP  NP  P   NP       
  High Schools   NP  NP  NP  NP  P   CUP CUP P   P   P  NP  NP  P   NP       
  Instructional  NP  P   NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    facility
 Food and                                                                     
  beverage sales:
                                                                              See chapter
  Casino         NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP CUP NP  NP CUP NP  NP  NP      40 of this
                                                                              title
  Food Trucks    NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
  Kiosks         NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
                                                                              Airport
                                                                              District,
  Restaurant     NP  P   NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  P/CUP   see
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5F2 of
                                                                              this chapter
  Restaurant,    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   NP  NP P   NP  NP  NP       
    drive- in
    Specialized
  food           NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    production
                                                                              Airport
                                                                              District,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5F2 of
                                                                              this
  Tavern         NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   P/CUP   chapter;
                                                                              PLI
                                                                              District,
                                                                              see
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5E of
                                                                              this chapter
 Healthcare:                                                                  
  Healthcare     NP  CUP NP  NP  CUP CUP P   P   P   P  NP  NP  P   NP       
    facility
  Healthcare     NP  P   NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  NP       
    office
 Industrial/                                                                  
  manufacturing:
  Contractor     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    yard
  Industrial,    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP P   NP  NP       
    heavy
  Industrial,    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP CUP CUP NP  NP P   P   NP  P        
    light
  Junkyard       NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP P   NP  NP       
    Motor vehicle
  wrecking       NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP P   NP  NP       
    facility
 Marijuana sales/                                               
  operations:
                                                                              See
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5(I) of
                                                                              this chapter
  Cultivation    NP  NP  NP  NP  N   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP
                                                                              CLM/M-I, See
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5(I)(2)
                                                                              (a) and 11-
                                                                              2-5(I)(2)(b)
                                                                              See
  Dispensary     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   NP P   P   NP  NP      subsection
                                                                              11-2-5(I) of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              See
  Manufacturer   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP NP  P   NP  NP      subsection
                                                                              11-2-5(I) of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              See
  Testing        NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP      subsection
    Laboratory                                                                11-2-5(I) of
                                                                              this chapter
                                                                              See
  Transporter    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP NP  P   NP  NP      subsection
    facility                                                                  11-2-5(I) of
                                                                              this chapter
 Overnight                                                                    
  accommodations:
    Bed and
    breakfast no
  more than      CUP CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P   P   P  NP  NP  NP  NP       
    eight (8)
    guest rooms
    Bed and
    breakfast no
  more than      NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  NP  NP  NP  NP       
    fifteen (15)
    guest rooms
  Boarding house P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    1-3 residents
  Boarding house NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    4-20 residents
  Campground/RV  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   NP  NP  NP       
    park
  Emergency      NP  CUP NP  NP  CUP CUP P   CUP CUP NP CUP NP  P   NP       
    shelter
  Hotel/motel    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  NP  NP  NP  P        
 Recreation,                                                                  
  Entertainment:
    Indoor
  entertainment, NP  CUP NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   CUP      
    sports and
    recreation
  Open space     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    Outdoor
  entertainment, NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   CUP P   P  CUP CUP P   P        
    sports and
    recreation
  Parks/         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   CUP      
    playgrounds
 Rental and                                                                   
  repair:
                                                                              R-3, R-O and
                                                                              B-
                                                                              1 Districts,
  General repair NP  CUP NP  CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP      see
                                                                              subsection
                                                                              11-2-5E of
                                                                              this chapter
    Large
  equipment      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    rental
    Small
  equipment      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   NP  P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    rental
 Sales:                                                                       
  Agriculture    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    supply sales
  Auction sales  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  P   NP       
  Construction   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    material sales
  General retail NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  NP       
    sales
    General retail
    sales, small
  scale 1,000    NP  CUP NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  P        
    square feet or
    less
  Manufactured   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    housing sales
    Medical                                                                   See
  marijuana      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   NP P   P   NP  NP      subsection
    dispensary                                                                11-2-5G
    Sexually
  oriented       NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP NP  NP  NP       
    business
 Services:                                                                    
  Artisan shop   NP  NP  NP  CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
  Commercial     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP P   CUP NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    kennel
  Crematorium    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
                                                                              See chapter
  Daycare center NP  P   CUP P   P   P   P   P   P   P  CUP NP  P   CUP     38 of this
                                                                              title
                                                                              See chapter
  Daycare, home  P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  CUP NP  NP  NP      38 of this
                                                                              title
  Financial      NP  CUP NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  NP  NP  NP  NP       
    services
  Funeral home   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    General
  services/      NP  P   NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P   P  P   NP  NP  P        
    professional
    offices
    Veterinary
  clinic, large  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    animals
    Veterinary
  clinic, small  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  P   P   NP  NP       
    animals
 Storage:                                                                     
  Fuel tank farm NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP CUP NP  P        
  Ministorage    NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP CUP NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
    facility
    Storage
  facility,      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP CUP CUP NP  NP       
    outdoor
  Warehouse      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
 Temporary uses                                                               
  by district:
    On site
  construction   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    office
    Outdoor
  concerts and   P   NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    theatrical
    performances
 Transportation:                                                              
  Airport        NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP NP  NP  NP  P        
  Bus terminal   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   NP P   NP  P   NP       
  Freight        NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  P        
    terminal
                                                                              See chapter
  Parking lot    NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   NP  NP P   P   P   P       22 of this
                                                                              title
  Parking        NP  NP  NP  NP  CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    structure
  Railroad yard  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   NP  NP       
 Utilities:                                                                   
  Communication  CUP CUP CUP CUP CUP P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    tower
  Composting     NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   P   NP       
    facility
  Recycling      NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP P   P   P   NP       
    center
    Recycling
  facility,      NP  NP  NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    mobile
  Utility, major NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP NP  CUP CUP NP       
  Utility, minor P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P        
    Utility, small
  scale energy   NP  P   NP  NP  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   NP       
    production
 Vehicle trade                                                                
  and service:
                                                                              Airport
                                                                              District,
  Vehicle fuel   NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  P   NP P   P   NP  NP      see
    sales                                                                     subsection
                                                                              11-2-5D of
                                                                              this chapter
  Vehicle repair NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  P   NP P   P   NP  NP       
                                                                              Airport
                                                                              District,
  Vehicle sales  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  P   NP P   P   NP  P       see
    and rental                                                                subsection
                                                                              11-2-5D of
                                                                              this chapter
  Vehicle        NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  NP  P   NP  P   NP P   P   NP  NP       
    services
 
(Ord. 3222, 9-26-2016; amd. Ord. 3254, 5-20-2019; Ord. 3256, 6-24-2019; Ord.
3304, 11-21-2022; Ord. 3310, 5-22-2023)
11-2-4: LAND USE DEFINITIONS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title, certain land uses are defined below. These
definitions have been separated by type of land use for ease of reference.
RESIDENTIAL USES
                                   A building other than a hotel or motel that
                                   has individual sleeping rooms for up to
BOARDING HOUSE:                    twenty (20) persons and where utility
                                   facilities for eating, cooking and
                                   sanitation are shared.
                                   A facility licensed by a governmental agency
COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY:    and providing care on a twenty-four (24)
                                   hour a day basis and as defined by State
                                   law. Includes the following:
   COMMUNITY FACILITY, TYPE I:  A community residential facility serving
                                   twelve (12) or fewer individuals.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY, TYPE II: A community residential facility serving
                                   thirteen (13) or more individuals.
                                   An occupation, business, or activity that is
                                   carried on entirely within a residence and
HOME OCCUPATION:                   is incidental and secondary to the use of
                                   the premises as a residence. Home
                                   occupations are subject to the provisions of
                                   chapter 26 of this title.
                                   A structure suitable for human habitation
                                   that is transportable in one or more
MANUFACTURED HOME:                 sections, built on a permanent chassis, and
                                   designed to be used with or without a
                                   permanent foundation when connected to the
                                   required utilities.
                                   A parcel of land that has been planned and
MOBILE HOME PARK:                  improved for the placement of mobile homes
                                   for residential use in accordance with the
                                   provisions of this title.
                                   A building containing three (3) or more
MULTIPLE-DWELLING UNITS RESIDENCE: dwelling units for occupancy by three (3) or
                                   more groups living separately from each
                                   other, including condominiums.
                                   A single building situated on one lot that
                                   contains one dwelling unit. This includes
SINGLE-DWELLING UNIT RESIDENCE:    manufactured homes, factory-built homes,
                                   homes built on site, and townhouses, but
                                   excludes mobile homes.
TWO-DWELLING UNIT RESIDENCE:       Two (2) dwelling units that are situated on
                                   one lot.
 
NONRESIDENTIAL
Agricultural Uses
 
                                  A piece of land gardened by a group of
COMMUNITY GARDEN:                 people, utilizing either individual or shared
                                  plots on private or public land while
                                  producing fruit, vegetables, and/or plants.
                                  The production, keeping, maintenance, or
                                  cultivation of a garden or orchard to grow
HORTICULTURE:                     fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental
                                  plants, excluding medical marijuana grow
                                  operations.
                                  An agricultural enterprise or facility
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROW OPERATION: engaged in growing medical marijuana for
                                  commercial purposes.
 
Community Uses
 
ANIMAL SHELTER:              A place that temporarily houses stray animals and
                             may include a crematorium.
                             A noncommercial building, or portion thereof used
                             for short term and intermittent meetings or
                             gatherings of individuals that are generally open
COMMUNITY CENTER:            to the public for purposes of recreation, sharing
                             information, entertainment, socializing, or
                             similar activities, and includes fraternal, social
                             or civic clubs, lodges, and union halls.
                             A place used for studying, reading, personal
COMMUNITY CULTURAL FACILITY: education, or for viewing the visual arts such as
                             libraries, museums, art galleries, and
                             observatories.
                             Prisons and jails for the detention of persons
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY:       awaiting trial or sentenced as punishment for
                             criminal offenses, including youth detention
                             facilities.
PRERELEASE CENTER:           A community corrections facility or program as
                             defined by state law.
                             A place used or intended to be used to house
PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITY:      public safety services, including ambulance
                             services, fire stations, police stations,
                             emergency management, and courts.
WORSHIP FACILITY:            A building designed and used for public worship by
                             a religious body, group, sect, or organization.
 
Education
 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL:      A school focused on educating students in grades 1
                        through 5. Can include kindergarten.
HIGH SCHOOL:            A school focused on educating students in grades 9
                        through 12.
                        A place that prepares students for jobs in trades or
                        professions, including vocational schools, or offers
INSTRUCTIONAL FACILITY: training, instruction, or tutelage in areas such as
                        performing arts and sciences. This definition includes
                        colleges.
KINDERGARTEN:           A school focused on educating students of ages 4
                        through 6.
MIDDLE HIGH SCHOOL:     A school focused on educating students in grades 6
                        through 9.
PRE-SCHOOL:             A school focused on educating students of ages 3
                        through 5.
 
Food And Beverage
CASINO:     Defined in chapter 40 of this title.
DRIVE-THRU  Any retail establishment preparing and serving food or drink that is not
RESTAURANT: consumed solely within the confines of the building in which the food is
            prepared and has a drive-thru window and stacking lane.
DRIVE-IN    Any retail establishment preparing and serving food or drink that is not
RESTAURANT: consumed solely within the confines of the building in which the food is
            prepared and has parking for drive-in customers.
FOOD TRUCK: A mobile vehicle, such as a van or trailer, equipped with facilities to
            cook, prepare, and/or sell food.
KIOSK:      A drive-thru only structure with no interior seating or counter, from which
            commercial items are sold. Please see the definition of “structure.”
            A place for the preparation and sale of food and beverages for consumption
            on the premises, and where consumption of beer, wine, or other alcohol, if
RESTAURANT: any, is complimentary and subordinate to the sale of food and that does not
            have a gambling license. This definition allows for carry-out services, but
            not a drive-thru window.
            The production of food products for direct sale to consumers for on-site
SPECIALIZED and off-site consumption including, but not limited to, roasting of coffee
FOOD        beans and the manufacture of coffee beverages, microbreweries manufacturing
PRODUCTION: malt or liquor not exceeding the production of ten thousand (10,000)
            barrels annually, and bakeries.
            Any establishment licensed by the state of Montana with a quota restricted
            license for the retail sale of any alcoholic beverage for on premises
            consumption. A restaurant that has a quota restricted license and gambling
            license is a tavern. This does not include premises upon which any
            alcoholic beverage is catered and sold for on premises consumption to
TAVERN:     persons attending a special event; premises upon which alcoholic beverages
            are served pursuant to a special alcohol beverage license; or premises upon
            which the alcohol beverage license is restricted to premises with a special
            use or ownership. Sale of alcoholic beverages on property for which only
            special licenses have been issued is considered an accessory use to the
            property's primary use.
 
Healthcare
 
                     A place providing medical services without overnight
                     accommodations for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, or
HEALTHCARE OFFICE:   rehabilitation, including dental clinics, doctors'
                     offices, public health centers, and outpatient medical
                     facilities.
                     A place used or intended to provide health services,
                     medical treatment, nursing care, or rehabilitative or
                     preventive care to any person or individual. This term
                     includes ambulatory surgical facilities, hospitals, kidney
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: treatment centers, long term care facilities such as
                     hospitals and nursing homes, medical assistance
                     facilities, mental health centers, public health centers,
                     residential treatment facilities, and rehabilitation
                     facilities.
 
Industrial/Manufacturing
 
                                 A place used for the storage of construction
CONTRACTOR YARD:                 material, machinery, or repair, including
                                 trucks and heavy equipment, shops, and office
                                 space.
                                 The processing or manufacturing of materials
                                 or products predominantly from extracted or
                                 raw materials; storage of or manufacturing
INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY:               processes using flammable or explosive
                                 materials; or storage of or manufacturing
                                 processes that potentially involve hazardous
                                 or offensive conditions.
                                 The manufacture of finished products or parts,
                                 predominantly from previously prepared
                                 materials, including assembly, processing,
                                 fabrication, treatment, packaging, incidental
                                 storage, sales, and distribution of such
INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT:               products, but excluding basic industrial
                                 processing. Typical uses include assembly of
                                 computers and electronics, testing and
                                 production laboratories, packaging of premade
                                 goods, furniture production, metal
                                 fabrication, apparel manufacturing, printing,
                                 publishing, and heavy equipment repair.
                                 A place for selling, exchanging, storing,
JUNKYARD:                        cleaning, packing, processing, or otherwise
                                 handling salvage materials.
                                 A place used for the collection of wrecked or
                                 disabled motor vehicles prior to their
MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING FACILITY: disposal for buying, selling, wrecking,
                                 dismantling, disassembling, or substantially
                                 changing the form of the motor vehicle.
 
Marijuana Sales/Operations
 
                      The total amount of square footage dedicated to live
CANOPY:               plant production at a licensed premises consisting of the
                      area of the floor, platform, or means of support or
                      suspension of the cannabis plant.
                      The planting, growing, harvesting, and drying of cannabis
                      and the packaging and relabeling marijuana produced at
CULTIVATION:          the location in a natural or naturally dried form that
                      has not been converted, concentrated, or compounded for
                      sale.
CULTIVATION FACILITY: A single facility licensed by the State of Montana in
                      which the cultivation of cannabis is conducted.
                      A licensed premises from which a person licensed by the
                      State of Montana may obtain marijuana products from a
DISPENSARY:           licensed cultivator, manufacturer, or dispensary and sell
                      marijuana or marijuana products to registered card
                      holders, adults that are twenty-one (21) years or older
                      of age or older, or both.
                      A person licensed by the State of Montana to convertor
MANUFACTURER:         compound marijuana into marijuana products, marijuana
                      concentrates, or marijuana extracts and package,
                      repackage, label, or relabel marijuana products.
                      A qualified person licensed by the State of Montana who
                      provides testing of representative samples of marijuana
TESTING LABORATORY:   and marijuana products and provides information regarding
                      the chemical composition and potency of a sample, as well
                      as the presence of mold, pesticides, or other
                      contaminates in a sample.
                      A licensed person and related facility used in the
                      transportation of marijuana and marijuana products from
                      one marijuana business to another marijuana business, or
TRANSPORTER FACILITY: to and from a testing laboratory, and to temporarily
                      store the transported retail marijuana and retail
                      marijuana products at its licensed premises but is not
                      authorized to sell marijuana or marijuana products to
                      consumers.
 
Overnight Accommodations
 
                    A private, owner-occupied residence other than a hotel,
BED AND BREAKFAST:  motel, or multiple-unit dwelling, with guestrooms used for
                    temporary accommodation of guests for compensation, and
                    that may serve meals to its guests.
                    A place for camping using tents, cabins, recreational
CAMPGROUND/RV PARK: vehicles, or other similar accommodations. This includes
                    accessory uses such as a laundromat and retail sales for
                    the convenience of campground guests.
EMERGENCY SHELTER:  Temporary housing and ancillary services for primarily
                    indigent, needy, homeless, or transient individuals.
                    A building or group of attached or detached buildings
HOTEL OR MOTEL:     containing individual sleeping or living units, designed or
                    used for temporary accommodation of guests for
                    compensation.
 
Recreation, Indoor
 
                                       A place for indoor activities such as
                                       movie theaters, dance halls, theaters
ENTERTAINMENT, SPORTS, AND RECREATION, for performing arts, bowling alleys,
INDOOR:                                skating rinks, billiard and pool halls,
                                       arcades, athletic clubs, courts and
                                       training centers, and gyms.
 
Recreation, Outdoor
 
                                       Leisure activities, usually organized
                                       and enjoyed with a gathering of others
                                       that may use equipment and take place at
ENTERTAINMENT, SPORTS, AND RECREATION, prescribed places, sites, or fields for
OUTDOOR:                               permanent outdoor, spectator type uses
                                       or events, including racetracks,
                                       motocross courses, sports arenas,
                                       concerts, and zoos.
                                       A place used for recreation or long-term
                                       preservation and conservation of
OPEN SPACE:                            wildlife habitat, cultural, historic, or
                                       natural resources, agricultural
                                       interests, or aesthetic values of its
                                       natural state.
                                       A place used for recreational activities
PARK:                                  or leisure time, such as playgrounds,
                                       baseball fields, tennis and basketball
                                       courts, swimming pools, and ice rinks.
 
Repair And Rental
 
                        Fixing or mending of consumer goods, including apparel
GENERAL REPAIR:         and individual personal property, but excluding repair
                        of vehicles or industrial equipment.
                        Rental of large equipment and supplies, including
LARGE EQUIPMENT RENTAL: trucks, vertical lifts, forklifts, backhoes, heavy
                        equipment, and modular buildings.
SMALL EQUIPMENT RENTAL: Rental of small equipment and supplies, including hand
                        tools, party equipment, lawn care, and yard equipment.
 
Sales
                              The retail sale of goods and products unique to
AGRICULTURE SUPPLY SALES:     and directly related to farming and ranching
                              operations, including agricultural supplies and
                              equipment and machinery sales and repair.
AUCTION SALES:                Sales by auctioning consumer products, but
                              excluding vehicle and livestock auctions.
AUCTION SALES, LIVESTOCK:     Sales by auctioning live animals including but
                              not limited to cattle, horses, pigs, and goads.
                              The wholesale or retail sale of bulk construction
                              materials such as roofing, lumber, bricks, and
CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL SALES:  component building parts. This term does not
                              include on site manufacturing of construction
                              material.
GENERAL RETAIL SALES:         The retail sale of a diverse product line of
                              consumer goods and products.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING SALES:   The on-site display and sale of mobile homes,
                              modular homes, and manufactured housing.
                              A registered premises from which a provider or
                              marijuana-infused products provider is approved
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: by the Montana Department of Health and Human
                              Services to dispense marijuana or marijuana-
                              infused products to a registered cardholder.
                              A location for growing, and retail or wholesale
NURSERY, COMMERCIAL:          selling of commercial plants, shrubs, trees, and
                              accessory products such as but not limited to
                              mulch, stones, and compost.
                              A business that primarily offers goods, services,
                              and entertainment for compensation that appeal to
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:   the prurient interest of adults, including escort
                              agencies, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter
                              centers, and related services.
 
Services
                      A place used or intended for creating works of art or
ARTISAN SHOP:         small-scale production of handmade craft items, including
                      paintings, sculptures, pottery, jewelry, handblown glass,
                      small wooden items, candles, soaps, and lotions.
                      A for-profit place housing any combination of three (3)
                      or more dogs, cats, or other domesticated animals over
COMMERCIAL KENNEL:    six (6) months of age for the purpose of boarding,
                      breeding, training, or sale, including dog training
                      centers, but excluding animal hospitals, animal grooming
                      parlors, and pet shops.
CREMATORIUM:          A place other than part of a funeral home used for the
                      cremation of human or animal dead.
                      Banking and financial services such as banks, savings and
                      loan institutions, lending institutions, and check
FINANCIAL SERVICES:   cashing facilities, but not including automated teller
                      machines that are an accessory use to other commercial
                      enterprises.
FUNERAL HOME:         A place for the care and preparation of human dead for
                      burial, including mortuaries.
                      Professional and personal care services where customers
                      come to the property for the service, including but not
GENERAL SERVICES:     limited to photography, fitness, weight loss, postal,
                      hairstyling, pet grooming, copying and printing, laundry
                      and dry cleaning services, and tattooing establishments.
                      Facilities where customers may come to the property for
                      the service, which may include but is not limited to
                      engineering, accounting, legal, architectural, real
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: estate, and insurance. Services provided to businesses
                      such as data processing centers, public relations,
                      advertising, and customer service centers via
                      telecommunications. This includes trade offices such as
                      electricians and plumbers.
                      Provides medical care of animals, including office space,
                      medical labs, appurtenant facilities, and enclosures or
                      kennels for animals under the immediate medical care of a
                      veterinarian, including pet clinics, dog and cat
                      hospitals, and animal hospitals. A large animal
VETERINARY CLINIC:    veterinary clinic specializes in the care and treatment
                      of livestock such as cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, horses,
                      llamas, ostriches and emus. A small animal veterinary
                      clinic specializes in the care and treatment of small
                      creatures such as poultry, fish, furbearing animals,
                      rabbits, dogs, cats, snakes, lizards, birds, and other
                      household pets.
 
Storage
 
FUEL TANK FARM:            The commercial bulk storage of petroleum products or
                           any other fuel.
MINI-STORAGE FACILITY:     Multiple storage units or a parcel of land rented,
                           leased, or owned for storage of personal property.
                           A parcel of land that allows outdoor storage to be
STORAGE FACILITY, OUTDOOR: rented, leased or owned for storage of personal
                           property such as boats, vehicles or recreational
                           trailers.
                           A building or portion thereof used to store goods
                           and materials for wholesale, temporary storage, and
                           distribution, including moving and storage
                           facilities, or a truck terminal that stores freight
WAREHOUSE:                 for reshipment or routing. This definition includes
                           a freight terminal, a place for the temporary
                           storage of items that will be loaded and unloaded
                           onto ground transportation for shipment, including
                           agricultural commodities.
 
Temporary Uses
 
                                A temporary building used by a contractor as
ON-SITE CONSTRUCTION OFFICE:    a field office for and during construction,
                                with no overnight occupancy, that is removed
                                when construction is complete.
OUTDOOR CONCERTS AND THEATRICAL A public performance of music, plays, or
PERFORMANCES:                   dance given by one or more singers,
                                instrumentalists, dancers, or actors.
TEMPORARY USE:                  A use that is not intended to be permanent.
 
Transportation
 
                   A place used for landing, parking, loading, unloading,
AIRPORT:           departure, and storage and maintenance of airplanes,
                   helicopters, and aircraft. This term also includes accessory
                   uses.
                   A place used for the service and storage of buses, loading
BUS TERMINAL:      and unloading of bus passengers and freight, and includes
                   facilities for ticket sales and food service that are
                   primarily intended for bus passengers.
                   An open area, other than a public right-of-way, used for off
PARKING LOT:       street paid parking of motor vehicles. Not to include
                   required parking as indicated in Chapter 22.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A multilevel structure used for off street parking of motor
                   vehicles.
RAILROAD YARD:     A place used for switching, loading, unloading, service,
                   maintenance, and storage of railroad cars and engines.
 
Utilities
 
COMMUNICATION A non-occupied structure exclusively for a cellular enabled mobile device site
TOWER:        where antennae and electronic communications equipment are placed to create a
              cell (or adjacent cells) in a cellular network.
              A place used for collecting, processing, and mixing leaves, straw, grasses, and
COMPOSTING    other like vegetable matter with other materials to produce fertilizer and soil
FACILITY:     conditioner, including storage and manipulation of materials prior to, during,
              and following composting.
RECYCLING     A place for collecting or processing recoverable materials such as glass,
CENTER:       newspaper, metal, and plastic for shipment to others for reuse of those
              materials, but not including a junkyard.
RECYCLING     A moveable station designed for the collecting of recoverable materials such as
FACILITY,     glass, newspaper, metal, and plastic. This does not include processing.
MOBILE:
UTILITY,      Facilities for water and wastewater treatment and solid waste transfer
MAJOR:        stations, this includes distributed power utilities, and commercial wind
              turbines, or commercial photovoltaic arrays.
              Facilities that include distribution lines, and public services, whether
              publicly or privately owned or operated, used to produce of provide the
UTILITY,      conveyance, distribution, transmission, or control, through a community system,
MINOR:        of any of the following: water, sewer, stormwater, electricity, telephone,
              television, electronic data, and telecommunications excluding communication
              towers. Please see the definition for “communication towers.”
UTILITY,      Non-commercial, small scale renewable energy facilities, less than 1 MW of
SMALL SCALE   generating capacity, used for the production and consumption of energy on site
ENERGY        or nearby to where the end user is located. Sale of excess energy back to the
PRODUCTION:   grid is permitted.
 
Vehicle Trade And Service
 
VEHICLE FUEL SALES:       Retail sale of gasoline, kerosene, diesel, or other
                          motor fuels.
                          A place for repair of vehicles, not limited to tires,
VEHICLE REPAIR:           transmissions and brakes, bodywork and painting,
                          upholstery, engine repair, and overhauls.
                          Buying, selling, exchanging, selling on consignment,
                          renting, or leasing of new or used vehicles,
VEHICLE SALES AND RENTAL: including snowmobiles, motorcycles, all-terrain
                          vehicles, recreational vehicles, trailers, and
                          watercraft.
                          Servicing of vehicles such as oil changes and
VEHICLE SERVICES:         lubrication, tire repair and replacement, detailing,
                          washing, polishing, or similar activities for
                          vehicles.
 
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3104, 11-3-2008; Ord. 3112, 5-18-2009; Ord.
3129, 8-23-2010; Ord. 3148, 12-19-2011; Ord. 3254, 5-20-2019; Ord. 3304, 11-21-
2022; Ord. 3310, 5-22-2023)
11-2-5: SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS:
A.   OSR (Open Space/Residential) District Requirements:
   1.   Density:
      a.   Clustered Development: Detached, single-dwelling unit, residential
uses may be clustered on a tract of land or contiguous tracts of land of one or
more acres in size and developed as a single development. The overall density
of such a cluster development may not exceed one unit per acre.
      b.   Additional Density Restrictions: Density may be further restricted
by constraints related to accessibility, depth to bedrock, and slope as
required by the City-County Health Department for sanitation requirements or as
specified in this section.
   2.   General Requirements: General development requirements of this district
are as follows:
      a.   Development Permit Required: Any and all construction on any parcel
requires a development permit prior to construction.
      b.   Improvements: All necessary improvements must be installed or
financially guaranteed.
      c.   Stormwater Drainage: Natural drainageways may not be altered and
construction is not permitted in drainageways unless approved by the City
Engineer.
      d.   Access: All roads and individual driveways must conform to the South
Hills plan (SHP) road construction standards, and road easements must be
provided to the Community Development Department.
   3.   Development Permit Requirements: The applicant must provide the
following prior to issuance of a development permit:
      a.   Stormwater Drainage:
         (1)   A stormwater drainage plan to be reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer.
         (2)   Drainage easements with a minimum of twenty feet (20') on each
side of the center of the drainageway must be granted to the city as required
by the city engineer.
      b.   Access: A registered engineer's verification that access to the
property through public and private roads and driveways has been constructed in
conformance with the road standards of the SHP.
      c.   Slope Stabilization And Sediment Control: A county approved erosion
and sediment control plan.
      d.   Septic Permit: An approved county septic permit.
      e.   Weed Control Plan: An approved county revegetation plan and, if
required by the county weed district, an approved weed management plan.
      f.   Fire Protection: A plan showing that the development is designed,
constructed, and maintained so as to minimize the risk of fire and to permit
the effective and efficient suppression of fires. The plan must also show
whether the development is or will be in a fire district or a fire service
area. The plan must show how the design, construction, and maintenance will
accomplish the following:
      (1)   Structures must be located in such a manner as to minimize the
potential for flame spread and to permit efficient access for firefighting
equipment.
      (2)   High fire hazard areas include heads of draws, excessive slopes,
dense forest growth, or other hazardous wildfire components. For development
proposed in areas subject to high wildfire hazard, as determined by the
appropriate fire protection agency or by the city if no fire protection agency
exists, the following standards apply:
         (A)   Road rights of way must be cleared of slash.
         (B)   Building sites are prohibited on slopes greater than thirty
percent (30%) and at the apex of "fire chimneys" (those topographic features,
usually drainageways or swales, which tend to funnel or otherwise concentrate
fire toward the top of steep slopes).
         (C)   Densities in areas of steep slopes or dense forest growth are
determined by the minimum lot standards as follows:
 
Percent Slope Minimum Lot Size (Acres)
              Open Grass Forest And Brush
10-20         2          3
20-30         3          4
 
      g.   Assigned Address: An address assigned to the property by the
appropriate agency.
   4.   Site Plan: Prior to issuance of a development permit, a detailed site
plan must be submitted to the city building department for review and approval.
Site plan information can be shown on the certificate of survey that is filed
with the clerk and recorder. This site plan must provide the following
information:
      a.   Boundary dimensions of the property showing all corners;
      b.   Distances of structures from public rights of way;
      c.   Location and width of all access easements across the property, as
well as location and width of access to the individual property;
      d.   Location and width of physical drainage easements, including
retention areas, on the property;
      e.   Location and size of culverts on the property;
      f.   Location of the residential structure, septic tank, and drain field;
and
      g.   Location and width of utility easements on the property.
B.   B-1 (Neighborhood Business) District Limitations On Uses:
   1.   Retail or service uses located in any building that was constructed or
expanded after March 25, 1998, may not utilize more than five thousand (5,000)
square feet in gross floor area, except as allowed by a conditional use permit.
   2.   Each retail or service use in this district must be conducted only in a
completely enclosed building.
C.   B-2, B-3, DT, CLM, And M-I Districts; Residential Uses: Residential uses
in the B-2, B-3, DT, CLM, and M-I Districts are permitted by right in a story
that is above the retail or commercial use. A conditional use permit is
required for residential uses that are above industrial uses.
D.   For Downtown and Transitional Residential Districts supplemental
requirements refer to Chapter 9.
E.   PLI District: Taverns that are accessory to a permitted use in the PLI
district are permitted.
F.   Airport District: The following apply:
   1.   Use of fuel tanks is limited to storage of aviation fuel and fuel for
maintenance facilities and rental cars; and
   2.   Restaurants and taverns are permitted inside a terminal building and
conditional uses outside the terminal building.
G.   R-3, R-O, And B-1 Districts: In the R-3, R-O, and B-1 Districts outdoor
storage is not allowed as part of the use for general repair.
H.   Public Hearing On Placement Of Facilities: The City Commission shall hold
a public hearing on the placement of facilities for major utilities, water
tanks, and water reservoirs. Notice of the hearing must be given no less than
three (3) days prior to the hearing by advertising in a newspaper of general
circulation. In approving the site the City Commission may impose reasonable
conditions related to mitigation of visual and sensory impacts and public
health and safety. The commission may deny the facility location if there is an
alternate site that is equally appropriate or if there is not a public need for
the facility. All applications for approval of the construction and operation
of facilities must be accompanied by an application fee as set by resolution of
the commission. No application may be processed without prepayment of said fee.
I.   Marijuana Sales and Operations:
   1.   Distance and Location
      a.   Any business engaged in the sale of marijuana or marijuana products
shall not be located:
         (1)   Within five hundred (500) feet of and on the same street as a
public or private K-12 school or any daycare facility. This distance must be
measured in a straight line from the center of the nearest entrance of the
school or daycare to the nearest entrance of the licensee’s premises.
         (2)   Within five hundred (500) feet straight line distance from the
closest edge of the premises to the closest boundary of any public building,
facility, or park owned and operated by the City of Helena.
      b.   Any business engaged in the cultivation or manufacture of marijuana
or marijuana products shall not be located:
         (1)   Within one thousand (1,000) feet of and on the same street as a
public or private K-12 school or any daycare facility. This distance must be
measured in a straight line from the center of the nearest entrance of the
school or daycare to the nearest entrance of the licensee’s premises.
         (2)   Within one thousand (1,000) feet straight line distance from the
closest edge of the premises to the closest boundary of a property zoned R-U,
R-1/R-2, R-3, or R-4/R-O.
         (3)   Within five hundred (500) feet straight line distance from the
closest edge of the premises to the closest boundary of any public building,
facility, or park owned and operated by the City of Helena.
         (4)   Within five hundred (500) feet of and on the same street as any
building used exclusively as a church, synagogue, or other place of worship.
This distance must be measured in a straight line from the center of the
nearest entrance of the school or daycare to the nearest entrance of the
licensee’s premises.
   2.   Cultivation Facilities
      a.   Any cultivation facility with a total canopy area up to one thousand
(1,000) square feet may be a permitted use by right in a CLM zoning district.
      b.   Any cultivation facility with a canopy area greater than one
thousand (1,000) square feet shall be located in the M-I zoning district.
      c.   All cultivation operations must be located indoors, and marijuana
plants may not be visible by normal unaided vision from the exterior of the
facility.
      d.   All marijuana plants must be located in a secured and locked space.
   3.   Air Discharge
      a.   Any marijuana cultivation or manufacturing facility must provide a
forced air vent discharge point that provides a mechanical filtration system to
control discharges of particulates and odors.
   4.   Existing medical marijuana dispensaries and grow operations
      a.   All medical marijuana dispensaries and grow operations within the
city limits that are duly licensed and authorized to conduct a medical
marijuana dispensary or grow operation by the city and State of Montana before
the effective date of the adopting ordinance from which this section derives
are exempt from the above requirements and may continue to operate either as a
medical marijuana facility or as a newly state licensed non-medical facility in
the established location at the size and capacity as originally licensed.
      b.   Where a change in permitted zoning districts by the adoption of the
amending ordinance causes the existing facility to be considered non-
conforming, said operation may continue to conduct both the medical operation,
or as a non-medical facility, in the originally established location and at the
size and capacity as originally licensed.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3254, 5-20-2019; Ord. 3256, 6-24-2019; Ord.
3310, 5-22-2023)
CHAPTER 3
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
11-3-1:    Conditional Use Permit Limitations
11-3-2:    Conditional Use Permit Application Requirements
11-3-3:    Administrative Review For Completeness And Staff Recommendation
11-3-4:    Conditional Use Permit Review Criteria
11-3-5:    Conditional Approval
11-3-6:    Zoning Commission Recommendation
11-3-7:    City Commission Determination
11-3-8:    Discontinuation Of Use
11-3-9:    Revocation
11-3-10:   Reapplication Required If Void
11-3-1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Any expansion or enlargement of a conditional use for which a
conditional use permit has been granted requires a new conditional use permit
to be granted for the entire property.
   B.   The conditional use for which a permit was granted must be developed in
accordance with the plans, specifications, and representations made by the
applicant in the application materials and public hearings. A material change
to any such plans, specifications, and representations requires a new
conditional use permit application. If the conditional use is developed
contrary to such plans, specifications, and representations, and the deviation
is material, the conditional use permit may be revoked pursuant to provisions
in section
11-3-9.
   C.   For purposes of this chapter, “material change” is defined as any
deviation from the plans, specifications, and representations, implicating any
of the factors stated in section
11-3-4B, that may result in:
      1.   A change to the conditions of approval; or
      2.   A finding of an adverse impact with respect to section
11-3-4A1 and A2 criteria. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A person desiring a conditional use permit shall apply to the city on
the appropriate forms and pay any required fees.
   B.   All applications for a conditional use permit must include the
following information:
      1.   Type and extent of the proposed use;
      2.   Site plan showing the proposed and current location of:
         a.   Pedestrian, vehicular, and bicycle ingress and egress to the
property;
         b.   Parking and loading areas;
         c.   Landscaping and screening;
         d.   Solid waste collection areas;
         e.   Utilities;
         f.   Signs; and
         g.   Lighting;
      3.   Proposed storm water drainage plan;
      4.   Traffic impact study for any use that will generate more than two
hundred (200) vehicle trips a day;
      5.   Vicinity map of the area showing the location of the property in
relation to surrounding land and zoning in the immediate area, water and
wastewater mains, other utilities, and city streets;
      6.   Planned modifications to the existing structure;
      7.   Preliminary architectural drawings for new construction with
elevations that include building heights;
      8.   An evaluation of the impacts on the abutting properties and the
neighborhood with respect to factors identified in section
11-3-5B. The evaluation must address any potential adverse impacts and how any
such adverse impacts will be mitigated.
      9.   Expected time when the permitted conditional use will commence; and
      10.   Variances requested. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-
2020)
11-3-3: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW FOR COMPLETENESS AND STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
The following completeness review is required for applications for conditional
use permits:
   A.   Within ten (10) working days of receipt of an application and required
filing fee, the city shall review the submitted information to determine
whether the application contains all the information required by this chapter.
The application is complete if all the information required is provided,
thereby forming the basis for an informed decision on the application. The city
shall give written notice to the applicant of the determination as to whether
or not the application is complete.
   B.   If the city determines that information is missing from the
application, the city will identify those elements in the notification. If the
applicant fails to submit the missing information within five (5) working days
of the notice of deficiency, the city may deny approval of the application.
   C.   If the applicant corrects the deficiencies and resubmits the
application within the time provided above, the city has ten (10) working days
to notify the applicant whether the resubmitted application contains all the
information required by this chapter.
   D.   After a complete application has been filed, the city shall investigate
the facts bearing on the application to assure that the action on the
application is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title, and then
give its recommendation to the zoning and city commissions. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-
2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-4: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   A conditional use permit may be granted by the city commission only
upon a finding, supported by substantial credible evidence in the record, that
the following standards are met:
      1.   The proposed conditional use, as conditioned, will not adversely
impact public health, safety, or general welfare; and
      2.   The proposed conditional use, as conditioned, will not adversely
impact the peaceful use of existing property or improvements in the vicinity
and the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
   B.   In considering whether section
11-3-4A1 and A2 standards are met, the following factors must be considered in
determining the impacts of the proposed conditional use on the abutting
properties and the neighborhood:
      1.   Location, character, and natural features of the subject property as
it currently exists;
      2.   Type and size of the proposed structure and improvements and their
relative location on the subject property;
      3.   Historical uses, established use patterns, and recent changes and
trends in the neighborhood;
      4.   Conformity of the proposed use with the neighborhood plan, if one
has been adopted;
      5.   Current and proposed pedestrian, vehicular, and bicycle traffic
including ingress and egress, circulation, and parking;
      6.   Whether the use is consistent with the Helena climate change action
plan;
      7.   Whether the proposal meets the zoning dimensional standards
requirements for the zoning district without the need for a variance;
      8.   Hours of operation;
      9.   Noise;
      10.   Glare;
      11.   Odor; and
      12.   Expressed public opinion related to factors identified above.
   C.   The above factors are weighed and evaluated depending on the
circumstances of each case. Any one (1) factor may be sufficient to find
adverse impacts for purposes of section
11-3-4A1 and A2 justifying denial of the permit or placement of special
conditions. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-5: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.    Conditional use permits may be granted subject to either one-time or
ongoing conditions.
   B.   Any conditions imposed must relate to the adverse impacts with respect
to section
11-3-4A standards identified during the consideration of section
11-3-4B factors and may include, but are not limited to, requirements for:
      1.   Special setbacks and buffers;
      2.   Installation of special fences, solid fences, walls, and
landscaping;
      3.   Improvements to parking areas;
      4.   Improvements to streets and points of vehicular ingress and egress;
      5.   Restrictions on signs;
      6.   Restrictions on lighting;
      7.   Restrictions on noise, vibrations, and odors;
      8.   Restrictions on hours of operation;
      9.   Time period within which the proposed use must be developed and
commenced;
      10.   Limiting the conditional use to a certain size and location on the
property; or
      11.   Any other conditions necessary to mitigate the identified adverse
impacts.
   C.   Conditional approval must specify:
      1.   The conditions to be completed;
      2.   The time frame within which the conditions must be completed;
      3.   Whether the conditions are one-time or ongoing; and
      4.   Whether the conditions can be deferred for a reasonable time
pursuant to an agreement between the applicant and the city.
   D.   If the conditions are not completed within the time frame specified,
the conditional use permit is deemed denied unless an extension is granted by
the city commission by a resolution. (Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-6: ZONING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   The zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on the application to
gather facts and information from all interested parties. At least fifteen (15)
days' notice of the hearing shall be published in an official newspaper, or a
newspaper of general circulation, in the city.
   B.   The zoning commission may continue the hearing, if necessary, to obtain
additional information. If the hearing is continued, a second legal notice is
not required if the time, date, and location of the continued hearing is
announced at the hearing and placed in the official record of the zoning
commission.
   C.   The zoning commission’s recommendation, to either approve, deny, or
conditionally approve and any recommended conditions, must be based upon
information presented at the public hearing and information contained in the
application.
   D.   The zoning commission shall send the city commission its recommendation
on the application, together with any and all pertinent facts in regard to the
application and its recommendation. The applicant must be given a true and
exact copy of the zoning commission's recommendation at least three (3) days
prior to the city commission hearing on the application. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008;
amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-7: CITY COMMISSION DETERMINATION:
   A.   The city commission must hold a public hearing on the application. At
least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing must be
published in an official paper or a paper of general circulation in the city.
   B.   The city commission’s decision must be based on the information
contained in the application, information presented at the public hearing, and
the zoning commission's recommendation.
   C.   The city commission may approve, deny, or conditionally approve the
requested conditional use permit. Approval or conditional approval must be
accomplished by resolution. The resolution must contain the statement of
findings required by section
11-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-8: DISCONTINUATION OF USE:
   A.   Once granted, a conditional use permit continues until the property is
no longer used for the purpose for which the conditional use permit was granted
as defined in
11-3-8B. If the property is no longer used for the purpose for which the
conditional use permit was granted, the conditional use permit may be declared
void by the community development director after thirty (30) days’ written
notice to the property owner.
   B.   A property is considered to no longer be used for the purpose for which
the conditional use permit was granted if the property is not used for that
purpose for at least thirty (30) continuous business days during each calendar
year. This presumption may be rebutted by evidence that the lack of use is
temporary and the owner does not intend to abandon the use. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-
2008; amd. Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020; Ord. 3281, 7-13-2020)
11-3-9: REVOCATION:
   A.   If a conditional use for which a conditional use permit has been
granted is not in compliance with the requirements of the conditional use
permit, the city may revoke that conditional use permit.
   B.   Prior to revocation, the city must send a written notice of revocation
by certified mail to the property owner and the leasee of the property. The
revocation notice must:
      1.   Identify which conditions are being violated;
      2.   State that the property must be brought into compliance within
fifteen (15) business days of the date of the notice of revocation; and
      3.   Advise the owner that if the violating condition is not brought into
compliance within the time specified:
         a.   The conditional use permit will be considered revoked;
         b.   The owner will have to immediately stop using the property for
the use for which the conditional use permit was granted; and
         c.   The city will pursue revocation of the business license
associated with the conditional use in accordance with provisions of this city
code.
   C.   A conditional use permit revoked pursuant to this section may be
reinstated upon a showing that all requirements of the conditional use permit
are being met.
   D.   If a conditional use permit is not reinstated within one (1) year of
the date of the notice of revocation the conditional use permit will be
considered void. (Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
11-3-10: REAPPLICATION REQUIRED IF VOID:
If the conditional use permit for a property is deemed void pursuant to
provisions of this chapter, the property owner must apply for a new conditional
use permit before the conditional use can resume. (Ord. 3279, 1-13-2020)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1:   Lot Requirement Definitions
11-4-2:   Lot Requirements For Zoning Districts
11-4-3:   Construction Requirements For Structures
11-4-4:   Townhouses
11-4-1: LOT REQUIREMENT DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following terms mean:
   BUILDING: A structure, including its projections and extensions, constructed
for support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property
of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above a reference datum measured to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard
roof, and for a pitched or hipped roof, the average height of the highest
gable. The reference datum is either of the following, whichever yields a
greater height of building:
   A.   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet (10')
above lowest grade.
   B.   An elevation ten feet (10') higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in subsection A of this definition is more
than ten feet (10') above lowest grade.
   DWELLING UNIT: A single habitable unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   LOT: A single parcel or plot of land, shown as an individual unit of
ownership on the most recent plat of record, or a group of such parcels or
plots which are held in single or common ownership or control, and upon which a
particular land use is carried on or conducted.
   LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot, stated in terms of percentage, that is
covered by all buildings and structures located on the lot, but does not
include the first two feet (2') of roof eave extensions measured from the
outside wall of the building, uncovered decks, fences, walls, or pools.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: Any lot line bounding a lot that is adjacent to any street.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The line bounding a lot that is the farthest and opposite
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: The line bounding a lot that is not a front or rear lot
line.
   PORCH: A covered structure that has no solid walls and at least one open
side that is attached to the front exterior of a building.
   SETBACK: The nearest distance from any lot line to where a building may be
located. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3130, 8-9-2010)
11-4-2: LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS:
Buildings must conform to the dimensional standards for a lot as follows:
   A.   Lot coverage may not exceed the limitations of the district within
which the lot is located.
   B.   The standards for setback of buildings from property lot lines are:
      1.   No portion of any building, including decks and excepting roof
eaves, fences, stair steps, and landscaping ornaments, may be located in any
lot line setback.
      2.   A lot that has more than one front lot line must provide a front lot
line setback for each front lot line. When a lot has more than one front lot
line, the remaining lot lines are side lot lines and no rear lot line setback
is required. The remaining side lot lines must meet the minimum side lot line
setback for the zoning district in which it is located.
      3.   The vehicular entrance of a garage must be set back at least twenty
feet (20'), measured in a straight line from the vehicular entrance of the
garage to the lot line of the property that abuts public right of way
designated as a street and has a driveway approach.
      4.   The lot line setback is five feet (5') for any lot line that abuts a
dedicated public right of way that provides only a secondary means of access to
property and is not intended for general travel.
      5.   The sight distance triangle as required in title 7, chapter 3 of
this code, must be observed for corner lots regardless of minimum setbacks
established in this chapter.
   C.   The standards for height of buildings are:
      1.   Height limitations for any district do not apply to the following:
spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, water tanks, elevator housings, solar
energy systems, streetlights, and utility poles.
      2.   A building or structure may not exceed the height limitations of the
district within which it is located except as allowed by a variance granted
under this title.
   D.   A lot that existed at the effective date of this title may not be
reduced in dimension or area below the requirements set forth herein. All lots
created after the effective date of this title must meet the minimum
requirements of this title. Nonconforming lots may be redesigned or aggregated
to reduce the nonconformity without a variance. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
   E.   The dimensional, area, coverage, and design standard requirements for
property in the various zoning districts are shown in table 2 of this section.
   TABLE 2
   LOT REQUIREMENTS BY ZONING DISTRICT
   DU = Dwelling unit
 
          OSR          R-U           R-1/R-2       R-3           R-4/R-O
          (Open Space/ (Residential- (Residential) (Residential) (Residential-
          Residential) Urban)                                    Office)
          1 - 3 acres;
          no more than
          1 DU per
          acre for
Lot area  cluster      No minimum    No minimum    No minimum    No minimum
          development.
          See section
          11-2-5 of
          this title
                       60% maximum
Lot                    Additional 5%
coverage  No maximum   for porch     40% maximum   40% maximum   60% maximum
                       attached to
                       front or side
Front lot 25' from
line      right-of-way No minimum    10' minimum   10' minimum   10' minimum
setback
          No minimum
          unless
Rear lot  abutting
line      right-of-    No minimum    10' minimum   10' minimum   10' minimum
setback   way, then
          25' from
          right-of-
          way
          No minimum
          unless
Side lot  abutting                                 6' minimum
line      right-of-    No minimum    8' minimum    for each side 6' minimum
setback   way 25' from                             yard
          right- of-
          way
Height    24' maximum  42' maximum   30' maximum   36' maximum   42' maximum
 
 
               B-1                   B-2                  B-3
              (Neighborhood         (General Commercial) (Central Business)
               Business)
               For multiple DUs
Lot area       1,000 sq. ft. per DU  No minimum           No minimum
               No minimum for single
               DUs or nonresidential
               Residential uses, 60%
Lot coverage   maximum               No minimum           No maximum
               No maximum for
               nonresidential uses
Front lot line No minimum            No minimum           No minimum
setback
                                     No minimum unless
Rear lot line  15' minimum           abutting residential No minimum
setback                              zone, then 15'
                                     minimum
                                     No minimum unless
Side lot line  6' minimum            abutting residential No minimum
setback                              zone, then 10'
                                     minimum
Height         36' maximum           75' maximum          70' maximum
 
 
                       DT and TR (Downtown and   CLM
                       Transitional Residential) (Commercial- Light
                                                 Manufacturing)
Lot area               See Chapter 9             No minimum
Lot coverage           See Chapter 9             No maximum
Front lot line setback See Chapter 9             15' minimum
                                                 No minimum unless abutting
Rear lot line setback  See Chapter 9             residential zone, then 15'
                                                 minimum
                                                 No minimum unless abutting
Side lot line setback  See Chapter 9             residential zone, then 15'
                                                 minimum
Height                 See Chapter 9             60' maximum
 
 M-I             PLI
 (Manufacturing  (Public Lands     Airport
 And Industrial) And Institutions)
               M-I                  PLI
               (Manufacturing       (Public Lands        Airport
               And Industrial)      And Institutions)
Lot area       No minimum           No minimum           No minimum
Lot width      No minimum           No minimum           No minimum
Lot coverage   No maximum           No maximum           No maximum
Front lot line 15' minimum          No minimum           No minimum
setback
               No minimum unless    No minimum unless
Rear lot line  abutting residential abutting residential No minimum
setback        zone, then 15'       zone, then 15'
               minimum              minimum
               No minimum unless    No minimum unless
Side lot line  abutting residential abutting residential No minimum
setback        zone, then 15'       zone, then 15'
               minimum              minimum
                                                         See
Height         60' maximum          60' maximum          chapter 35, "Airport
                                                         Zoning Regulations",
                                                         of this title
 
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008, amd. Ord. 3104, 11-3-2008; Ord. 3131, 8-9-2010; Ord.
3222, 9-26-2016; Ord. 3257, 6-24-2019; Ord. 3278, 1-13-2020)
11-4-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES:
Structures constructed off site from their permanent location may be moved and
used at the permanent location site provided:
   A.   The structure and its foundation comply with the provisions of title 3
of this code for new structures applicable at the time the structure is moved
onto the site; or
   B.   For a manufactured home or mobile home, the structure must have been
constructed after January 1, 1990, in compliance with the applicable prevailing
standards of the United States department of housing and urban development at
the time of its production and be placed on a permanent foundation. (Ord. 3097,
4-7-2008)
11-4-4: TOWNHOUSES:
   A.   A townhouse is a dwelling unit connected at the property line by a
common wall to another dwelling unit.
   B.   A townhouse must conform to the lot coverage limitations for the
particular district in which it is located as calculated in this section. Lot
coverage is based on the total area of all the lots upon which the townhouse
building sits.
   C.   The portion of a townhouse connected to another townhouse at the
property line by a common wall is exempt from the setback requirements for
those portions of the townhouses. Sides of a townhouse not connected at a
property line must meet the applicable setbacks.
   D.   In the R-1/R-2 residential districts only one townhouse may be
connected at the property line by a common wall to another townhouse. (Ord.
3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
11-5-1:   Established
11-5-2:   Powers Of Board
11-5-3:   Powers Assigned To City Commission
11-5-4:   Application
11-5-5:   Procedure
11-5-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The board of adjustment is hereby established to act on variance
applications as detailed in this chapter. The board consists of five (5)
members appointed by the mayor for three (3) year terms, subject to
confirmation by the city commission. One member of said board of adjustment
shall be a member of the city commission.
   B.   The board shall appoint one of its members as chairman and shall
establish its operating rules in accordance with section 76-2-321(3), Montana
Code Annotated.
   C.   The board's office shall be that of the city community development
department. All files of the board shall be kept in said office.
   D.   The staff of the community development department will receive and
process applications to the board for variances and give advice to the board.
   E.   The city commission may, in its discretion, appoint one alternate
member of the board. The term of the alternate member shall be for three (3)
years from the date of appointment. The alternate member will serve on the
board of adjustment only in the event a regular member of the board is unable
to attend a regularly scheduled meeting of the board. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-5-2: POWERS OF BOARD:
   A.   The board of adjustment may, after public notice and hearing, approve,
conditionally approve, or deny requests to vary the following requirements of
this title:
      1.   Lot line setback requirements;
      2.   Lot coverage and area requirements;
      3.   Building height;
      4.   Parking and loading space regulations;
      5.   Location, height, area, and number of signs; and
      6.   Landscaping requirements.
   B.   The board of adjustment may hear and decide appeals at a legally
advertised public hearing where it is alleged there is error in any decision,
order, or action described in sections
11-1-7 and
11-1-8 of this title that is made by the city manager.
   C.   The board of adjustment may not grant a variance from the requirements
of the wildland-urban interface overlay district.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3258, 6-24-2019)
11-5-3: POWERS ASSIGNED TO CITY COMMISSION:
   A.   The city commission has the sole authority to grant height variances
for towers. The city commission shall follow the standards and criteria of this
chapter when considering a variance for the height of a tower.
   B.   The city commission may grant a variance from the requirements listed
above if the requested variance is related to an application for a conditional
use. The city commission shall follow the standards and criteria listed below
when considering a variance. Additional review by the board of adjustment is
not required on variances that are related to an application for a conditional
use. The city commission hereby reserves this authority unto itself pursuant to
section 76-2-321(2), Montana Code Annotated, and further reserves unto itself
any and all other authority not hereinabove granted to the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-5-4: APPLICATION:
Written applications for variances must be filed in the office of the community
development department on forms provided by the city. No application will be
regarded as having been filed until the required fee is first paid to the
community development department. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-5-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice of the board's hearing of each application must be published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city once, at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing date.
   B.   The board of adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the application
to gather facts and information. Persons interested in the requested variance
and community development department staff may testify at the public hearing.
   C.   To approve a requested variance for a new building or portion thereof,
the board of adjustment shall consider the following standards and find as
follows:
      1.   The variance will not create a significant risk to the public
health, safety, or general welfare;
      2.   The variance will not significantly reduce or impair the peaceful
use of existing property or improvements in the vicinity and the zoning
district in which the subject property is located; and
      3.   Strict compliance with the provisions of this title would create
unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty.
   D.   In evaluating the standards in subsection C of this section, the board
of adjustment may consider the following factors:
      1.   Special conditions and circumstances that are unique to the
applicant's site, including the size of the property, unusual or extreme
topography, or unusual shape of the property.
      2.   The height, location, or dimensions of existing structures located
on the site or in the vicinity of the site.
      3.   Whether there is a prevalence of nonconformities in the vicinity of
the site that are similar to the variance requested.
      4.   The subsequent imposition of zoning restrictions creating
nonconforming lots or parcels, and governmental actions beyond the applicant's
control.
      5.   Whether a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the property owner of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties
similarly situated in the same district under the terms of this title.
      6.   The extent to which the hardship or difficulty results from the
actions of the applicant.
      7.   Whether granting the variance requested will confer an unreasonable
special privilege to the subject property that is not available to other
properties similarly located in the same zoning district.
   E.   A property owner who desires to reconstruct a nonconforming building or
nonconforming portion of a building must apply for a variance. When reviewing
the variance to reconstruct a nonconforming building, the property owner is
entitled to a rebuttable presumption that the standards in subsection C of this
section are met if the property owner can prove the existence of the prior
nonconformity and that the nonconformity can be in compliance with building and
fire codes.
   F.   The board of adjustment may impose conditions to minimize adverse
impacts that the variance may have on the public health, safety, or general
welfare. Any approval that includes conditions is subject to the terms of the
conditions. Conditions stated in the approval may include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   A time period in which the proposed structure shall be completed;
and
      2.   Other conditions necessary to mitigate adverse effects from the
variance.
   G.   Any variance from the maximum number of off street parking spaces, as
specified in section
11-22-6 of this title, must require that a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of
the parking area be landscaped in accordance with the standards in
chapter 22 of this title. This landscaping is in addition to the requirements
of
chapter 24 of this title. The board of adjustment may also place conditions,
within applicable city code provisions, on the location and permissible types
of surfacing materials for off street parking and loading areas.
   H.   If a variance to the zero foot setback is requested in Downtown or
Transitional Residential Districts, the maximum setback allowable along the
primary and secondary lot line cannot exceed ten (10) ft.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3258, 6-24-2019)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
SECTION:
11-6-1:   Intent
11-6-2:   Definitions
11-6-3:   Nonconforming Buildings
11-6-4:   Nonconforming Use Limitations
11-6-5:   Repair, Maintenance And Remodeling
11-6-6:   Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) Requirements
11-6-7:   Applicability To Work In Progress
11-6-8:   Cessation Of Nonconforming Uses
11-6-1: INTENT:
Some zoning districts include lots, buildings, and uses that lawfully existed
before adoption of zoning regulations that now prohibit them. It is the intent
of this chapter to allow those lots, buildings, and uses to continue, but not
to encourage their survival. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING: An existing building that was lawful prior to
adoption or amendment of this title, but does not meet the provisions of the
current title due to dimensional restrictions on lot coverage, setbacks,
height, location on the lot, or other zoning requirements.
   NONCONFORMING USE: An existing use that was lawful prior to the adoption or
amendment of this title, but is not now a permitted use in the district in
which the use is located. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-3: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   A nonconforming building may not be enlarged or altered in any way that
increases its nonconformity. A nonconforming building may be altered to
decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   A nonconforming building or nonconforming portion of a building that is
damaged or destroyed may not be reconstructed unless a variance is granted by
the board of adjustment.
   C.   If, for any reason, a nonconforming building is moved any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-4: NONCONFORMING USE LIMITATIONS:
A nonconforming use may be continued at its location, provided that:
   A.   It is not enlarged, increased, or extended to occupy a greater area of
land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title.
   B.   It is not abandoned pursuant to section
11-6-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-5: REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND REMODELING:
Any building that is used for a nonconforming use may be repaired or remodeled
provided that such work does not increase the cubic content of the building or
expand the nonconforming use. Nothing in this title prevents the restoration of
any building to a safe condition if an official charged with protecting the
public safety declares it to be unsafe and orders corrective action. (Ord.
3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-6: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To accommodate and encourage compliance with the Americans with
disabilities act (ADA) accessibility guidelines, the enlargement of buildings
to accommodate ramps, elevators, and bathrooms that meet the minimum ADA
accessibility guidelines and improve accessibility for persons with
disabilities are not considered as increasing or enlarging the nonconforming
use or building.
   B.   Prior to remodeling historic buildings or properties located within
historic districts to accommodate ADA requirements, the proposed design
alternatives must be reviewed to provide consistency with the secretary of
interior's standards for rehabilitation. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-7: APPLICABILITY TO WORK IN PROGRESS:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter requires a change in the
plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual
construction, preparatory excavation, or demolition was lawfully begun prior to
the adoption or amendment of this chapter. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-6-8: CESSATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   If a nonconforming use of a building or land is not operated for at
least thirty (30) continuous business days each calendar year, the
nonconforming use is presumed to be intentionally abandoned. Evidence that the
lack of use is temporary and that there is no intent to abandon the use may
rebut the presumption. Once a nonconforming use is abandoned, the subsequent
use of a building or land must conform to the regulations specified by this
title for the district in which the land or building is located.
   B.   If a nonconforming use is changed to an allowed use, whether by right
or conditional use permit, the nonconforming use is considered intentionally
abandoned. The property may not thereafter be used for the abandoned
nonconforming use. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
11-7-1:   Intent
11-7-2:   Definitions
11-7-3:   License
11-7-4:   Mobile Home Park Site And Development Standards
11-7-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to provide regulations for the location, design,
construction, enlargement, improvement, alteration, and operation of mobile
home parks in order to promote, protect, and secure the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public, the residents, and users of such facilities.
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are applicable:
   FRONTAGE: The side of a mobile home site that is adjacent to any street. If
a site is adjacent to more than one street, it must conform to an established
frontage where side exits or a common frontage have been established. If there
are frontages already established on both of the streets that such a site
faces, it may front on either street so long as it maintains yards conforming
to both frontages.
   MOBILE HOME: A previously constructed, detached, single dwelling unit that
exceeds eight feet (8') in width or forty five feet (45') in length, was
constructed in compliance with the applicable prevailing standards of the
United States department of housing and urban development at the time of its
production, and was constructed on one or more chassis, designed to be
transported or towed on its own wheels to the point of use after fabrication,
suitable for year round occupancy, and containing a flush toilet, sleeping
accommodations, a tub or shower bath, kitchen facilities, and plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to appropriate external systems.
This includes manufactured homes for purposes of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME SITE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park that is
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home or one manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of a mobile home site that has been reserved
for the placement of a mobile home, appurtenant structure, or addition.
   PROPERTY LINE: Perimeter boundary of mobile home park.
   VEHICLE TRAVEL LANE: All roads, driveways, and parking areas within a mobile
home park. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-7-3: LICENSE:
No person may operate any mobile home park within the city without a valid
business license. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-7-4: MOBILE HOME PARK SITE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Permitted Structures: Only the following structures are permitted in a
mobile home park:
      1.   Mobile homes, excluding commercial sales of mobile homes;
      2.   Manufactured homes; and
      3.   Accessory buildings or structures, for use only by park management
or park residents, which may not exceed two (2) stories and twenty four feet
(24') in height.
   B.   Dimensional Standards: Buildings and other structures in a mobile home
park must conform to the following dimensional standards:
      1.   The minimum size for a mobile home park is ten (10) acres and
fifteen (15) mobile home sites that must be completed and ready for occupancy
within one year of the conditional use approval.
      2.   Mobile home park density may not exceed nine (9) mobile homes or
manufactured homes per acre.
      3.   Maximum mobile home site coverage, by all structures, is fifty
percent (50%) of the lot area.
      4.   All structures within a mobile home park must be set back at least
ten feet (10') from the property line.
      5.   Mobile homes must be located so that they are at least twenty five
feet (25') apart side to side, fifteen feet (15') apart from side to rear, and
fifteen feet (15') apart from rear to rear.
      6.   Each mobile home site must provide a well drained stand with a firm,
stable base approved by the building and safety division for the placement of
the mobile home. Minimum dimensions are twelve feet by fifty feet (12' x 50')
for singlewide homes and twenty four feet by fifty feet (24' x 50') for
doublewide homes. Mobile home stands must be at least five feet (5') from road
curb.
      7.   An outdoor patio area of at least one hundred eighty (180) square
feet must be provided at each mobile home site, conveniently located to the
entrance of the mobile home and appropriately related to open areas of the
mobile home site and other facilities, for the purpose of providing suitable
outdoor living space to supplement the mobile home.
      8.   No mobile home may be higher than twenty four feet (24').
   C.   Vehicular And Pedestrian Access Standards: Mobile home parks must
conform to the following vehicular and pedestrian access standards:
      1.   All mobile home parks must have access to a major or minor arterial
or collector street. Access is determined according to location and need.
      2.   The city commission may require additional dedication and
improvements on streets and highways abutting the proposed mobile home park as
may be necessary to provide safe access to and from the park.
      3.   Minimum pavement width in mobile home parks is twenty five feet
(25') for all roads without on street parking and ten feet (10') for all
driveways. If street parking is allowed on one side of a road, the minimum road
width is thirty three feet (33'). If street parking is allowed on both sides of
a road, the minimum road width is thirty eight feet (38').
      4.   The mobile home park road system should be so designed as to prevent
the use of such roads for through traffic. The entire width of the vehicle
travel lanes must be surfaced with a minimum of two inches (2") of asphalt,
plant mix, concrete, or other approved materials on suitable road base, as
approved by the city engineer. A concrete curb and gutter must be placed along
both sides of all roads. Types of curbs and gutters must reflect topographic
conditions and road design.
      5.   Sidewalks, constructed in accordance with applicable city
requirements, must be provided on the public street side of each mobile home
site unless the city commission specifically waives such requirement. The
commission may take performance bonds in lieu of construction for a specific
period of time.
      6.   Adequate hard surface paving shall be provided for off street
parking, vehicle storage, and access in accordance with this title.
   D.   Utilities And Other Services: Mobile home parks must provide utilities
and other services as follows:
      1.   All sanitary sewage facilities and plumbing and water facilities,
including connections provided to individual mobile homes or manufactured
homes, must meet applicable requirements of the city and the state of Montana.
      2.   The plumbing connections to each mobile home or manufactured home
must be constructed so that all lines are protected from freezing, from
accidental bumping or damage, and from creating any type of nuisance or health
hazard.
      3.   An adequate amount of running water from the city water system must
be piped to each mobile home.
      4.   Storm drainage facilities must be constructed, in accordance with an
approved drainage plan meeting city standards.
      5.   All electric, natural gas, telephone, cable television, and other
utility and fuel lines must be underground and designed so as to conform with
applicable city and state laws. When meters are installed, each must be located
in a uniform manner.
      6.   When exterior television antenna installation is necessary, a master
antenna must be installed and extended to individual stands by underground
lines. Such master antenna must be so placed as not to be a nuisance to park
residents or surrounding areas.
      7.   Facilities must be provided for the sanitary and lawful storage and
disposal of solid waste.
      8.   Street and yard lights attached to standards approved by the city
must be provided in sufficient number, intensity, and location to permit the
safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night.
   E.   Skirting, Canopies And Awnings: Skirting, canopies, and awnings are
regulated as follows:
      1.   Each mobile home must be skirted within ninety (90) days after
placement in a mobile home park.
      2.   Skirting material may be of 26-gauge metal, aluminum, or other
noncorrosive metal or material of equal strength, and so constructed and
attached to the mobile home as to prevent the entry of rodents, flies, and
insects.
      3.   Canopies and awnings may be attached to any mobile home, but they
may not exceed twelve feet (12') in width or the length or height of the mobile
home.
      4.   A building permit is not required for construction or erection of
canopies or awnings that are open on three (3) sides, but is required before
construction or erection of any screened, glassed in or otherwise enclosed
awning or canopy.
   F.   Fire Extinguishing Equipment: Every mobile home park shall be equipped
at all times with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order, of such
type, size, and number, and so located within the park, as to satisfy
regulations of this code.
   G.   Landscaping And Screening: The following landscaping and screening
requirements must be met in all mobile home parks:
      1.   Trees Required: There must be at least two (2) deciduous trees with
a minimum one and one-half inch (11/2") caliper for each mobile home site. At
least one evergreen tree must be provided for every three (3) mobile home sites
and must be located at the front or rear of one of the mobile home sites.
Withered or dead plant material must be replaced within a reasonable period of
time, but not longer than one growing season.
      2.   Greenbelt Enclosure Of Mobile Home Park: One of the following
buffers must be provided between a mobile home park and adjoining properties:
         a.   A greenbelt planting strip, not less than twenty feet (20') in
width, must be placed along the perimeter of the mobile home park where it
abuts public rights of way or an adjoining area not constituting a mobile home
park. The greenbelt must be developed with a mixture of hardy deciduous and
coniferous plant material, grass or ground cover, and maintained thereafter in
a neat and orderly manner.
         b.   A continuous ornamental wall six feet (6') in height above grade
must be erected one foot (1') off property lines abutting other adjoining
properties not constituting a mobile home park and six feet (6') off property
lines abutting public rights of way. Walls on right of way corners must meet
the requirements of this title in regard to the line of sight on rights of way.
Such walls must be landscaped with suitable plant materials along both sides to
cover at least twenty percent (20%) of each side for the total length of wall
existing along rights of way, except for drive approaches into the park. Walls
used on property lines must have thirty percent (30%) of total wall length
landscaped on the mobile home park side. The remaining areas shall be
landscaped and maintained with a well kept lawn or other landscaping materials
in accordance with this title. Landscaping must be continually maintained in a
healthy, growing, neat, and orderly condition.
         c.   Any combination of these two (2) methods may be used.
      3.   Other Potential Requirements: The city commission may require
fencing or screen planting around areas containing solid waste disposal
facilities and around service or recreational areas as a condition of approval
of a mobile home park.
   H.   On Site Laundry Drying Space: On site, indoor or outdoor, laundry
drying space, adequate in relation to the number of mobile or manufactured
homes in the park, must be provided. Where outdoor drying space is utilized,
individual clothes drying facilities on each mobile home site may be placed in
the rear yard only.
   I.   Recreational Space: A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet per
mobile home site must be reserved for recreational development. This area must
be accumulated in central locations and designed with recreation equipment and
approved landscaping. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 8
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS
SECTION:
11-8-1:   Intent
11-8-2:   Definitions
11-8-3:   License
11-8-4:   Recreational Vehicle Park Site And Development Standards
11-8-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to provide regulations for the location, design,
construction, enlargement, improvement, alteration, and operation of
recreational vehicle parks in order to promote, protect, and secure the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public and the residents and users of such
facilities. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   LOT: An area or plot of ground, within a recreational vehicle park, designed
for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle, or other temporary
recreational shelter.
   PROPERTY LINE: Perimeter boundary of a recreational vehicle park. (Ord.
3097, 4-7-2008)
11-8-3: LICENSE:
No person may operate any recreational vehicle park within the city without a
valid business license. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-8-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK SITE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Only the following uses are permitted in a recreational vehicle park:
      1.   Recreational vehicle parks may be used for recreational vehicles,
equivalent facilities in or on automotive vehicles, tents, or other short term
recreational shelter arrangements on a temporary basis only.
      2.   Accessory uses related to park management and occupant needs and
enjoyment.
   B.   Each recreational vehicle park must be at least two (2) acres in size.
   C.   All recreational vehicle parks must have access to an arterial, minor
arterial, or collector street. Entrances and exits must be designed for safe
and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the park and to minimize
congestion of free moving traffic on adjacent streets.
   D.   All lots must be set back from all property lines not less than twenty
five feet (25'). Commercial, management, or service buildings may be
constructed within fifteen feet (15') of the front property lines.
   E.   The twenty five foot (25') setback area formed between the property
lines and the lots is a greenbelt buffer zone to screen the park from adjacent
properties and must be developed by one of the following buffers:
      1.   A greenbelt planting strip, not less than twenty five feet (25') in
width, must be placed along the perimeter of the recreational vehicle park
where it abuts public rights of way or an adjoining area not constituting a
recreational vehicle park. The greenbelt must be developed with a mixture of
hardy deciduous and coniferous plant material and grass or ground cover, of a
size and condition in accordance with this title. The greenbelt shall be
maintained in a neat, clean, orderly, and healthful condition.
      2.   A continuous ornamental wall six feet (6') in height above grade
must be erected one foot (1') off property lines abutting other adjoining
properties not constituting a recreational vehicle park, and six feet (6') off
property lines abutting public rights of way. Walls on right of way corners
must meet the requirements of this title in regard to sight distance triangles.
Such walls must be landscaped with suitable plant material along both sides of
the wall to cover at least twenty percent (20%) of each side of the total
length of wall existing along rights of way, except for drive approaches. Walls
used on property lines must have thirty percent (30%) of total wall length
landscaped on the recreational vehicle park side. The remaining areas must be
landscaped and maintained with a well kept lawn or other landscaping materials
in accordance with this title. All landscaping shall be continually maintained
in a healthy, growing, neat, and orderly condition.
      3.   Any combination of these two (2) methods may be used with the prior
approval of the city commission granted at the time of conditional use permit
review.
   F.   No structure in a recreational vehicle park may be higher than twenty
four feet (24').
   G.   Service areas and utilities must be provided in the following manner:
      1.   At least one service building containing necessary toilet and other
specified plumbing fixtures must be provided in the park:
Number Of Dependent Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures
Parking Spaces      Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women
Number Of Dependent Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures
Parking Spaces      Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women
1 - 15              1   1     1       1   1      1   1
16 - 30             1   2     1       2   2      1   1     At least 1 janitor
31 - 45             2   2     1       3   3      1   1     sink per service
46 - 60             2   3     2       3   3      2   2     building
61 - 80             3   4     2       4   4      2   2
81 - 100            3   4     2       4   4      3   3
 
      2.   Service buildings must be conveniently located within a radius of
approximately three hundred feet (300') of the spaces to be served.
      3.   Laundry facilities are required in addition to the required toilet
and other plumbing facilities. If off site commercial laundry facilities are
conveniently located near the trailer park, the laundry requirement may be
waived by the city commission.
      4.   Facilities for storage and disposal of solid waste, in a sanitary
manner, must be provided in each park. The city commission may require fencing
or screen planting around areas containing solid waste disposal facilities or
around service or recreational areas, as a condition for approval of a
recreational vehicle park.
      5.   Street and yard lights may be provided in sufficient number,
intensity, and location to permit safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at
night. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 9
DOWNTOWN DISTRICT AND TRANSITIONAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Intent
11-9-2: Definitions
11-9-3: Applicability Of District Standards
11-9-4: Noncomformities
11-9-5: Administrative Adjustments
11-9-6: Uses
11-9-7: Design Standards
11-9-1:  INTENT:
This chapter provides design standards and administrative procedures specific
to the Downtown and Transitional Residential Districts. These standards and
procedures are intended to encourage the creation and preservation of mixed-use
development opportunities, including a wide range of housing options serving a
wide range of incomes and demographics; to provide for the protection and
enhancement of historic and cultural resources; to establish minimum
requirements and responsibilities for the installation of public improvements
in support of redevelopment; and to encourage desirable site design for all
development occurring in the districts. These aspects are all essential for the
development of a diverse, dynamic and desirable city environment. The interests
of the community and the goals of the Growth Policy are further ensured through
the application of this chapter. (Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
11-9-2:  DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
For any term not specifically defined below, the definitions contained in
Chapter 4 of this Title apply.
ADMINISTRATIVE A staff determination regarding minor modifications to the required
ADJUSTMENT:    transparency, building entrance design standards, and façade wall segment
               length.
FACADE WALL    The number of linear feet an exterior wall may extend, unbroken (without
SEGMENT:       physical articulation or offsets, change in material, window transparency
               or an entryway) along a primary or secondary street.
GROUND FLOOR   The first floor of a building or structure, measured above ground from
STORY:         street grade.
               A parking space or berth, directly serving a building for the loading or
LOADING AREA:  unloading of merchandise or material, and which has access to a street,
               alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
LOT LINE,      A lot line shared by two (2) lots, having no street frontage.
COMMON:
LOT LINE,      The property frontage designated to bear the address and principal
PRIMARY:       entrance to the building.
LOT LINE,      On corner lots or lots in which a building has multiple frontages, any lot
SECONDARY:     line or street frontage that does not serve as the principal entrance
               point.
PAINTED WALL   Defined as a sign that is painted onto the exterior façade of a building.
SIGN:
PARKING        The distance in which a parking lot must be set back from the primary or
SETBACK:       secondary lot line, when located adjacent to a building.
PROJECTING     A sign affixed to the exterior wall of the building and which extends
SIGN:          perpendicular to the facade of the building or structure.
SANDWICH BOARD Defined as a freestanding sign made of two (2) boards connected at the
SIGN:          top.
STACKING       Refers to the linear distance required for a certain number of cars to
LENGTH:        line up end to end in a drive-through aisle.
TRANSPARENCY:  The degree, measured as a percentage, to which a façade wall segment has
               clear, transparent windows on each story. (Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
 
11-9-3:  APPLICABILITY OF DISTRICT STANDARDS:
This Chapter applies to all properties and buildings within the Downtown and
Transitional Residential District boundaries. The provisions of Title 11 apply
unless provided otherwise in this chapter. (Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
11-9-4: NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Buildings undergoing a structural change to a façade wall segment that
affects twenty five percent (25%) or more of that façade wall segment must
comply with all applicable design standards for the affected building story(s).
   B.   Additions or Expansions to Existing Structures: Buildings undergoing a
structural addition or expansion that results in an increase of twenty five
percent (25%) or more of the existing floor area of the entire building (all
stories) must comply with all applicable design standards.
   C.   Remodel: Buildings undergoing a remodel that affects more than seventy
five percent (75%) of the existing floor area ratio (all stories) must comply
with all applicable design standards except for those found in
11-9-7 (B).
   D.   Buildings individually listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or designated a contributing or primary property to a historic district
are not required to make any modifications that would threaten their historic
integrity.
   E.   All other provisions of Title 11, Chapter 6 shall apply to legally non-
conforming buildings, lots and uses within the Downtown and Transitional
Residential Districts. (Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
11-9-5:  ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Requests for an administrative adjustment to required façade wall
segment, transparency, and building entrance design standards, with
justifications and plans supporting such request, must be submitted in writing
to the Community Development Director, who will evaluate the request on a case-
by-case basis before issuing a written determination.
   B.   Notice that a request for an administrative adjustment has been
submitted must be posted at the property and mailed to the subject property
owner and all owners of property within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the
subject property at least twenty (20) days before a final decision or action on
the requested administrative adjustment.
   C.   The Community Development Director must review each request for an
administrative adjustment and act to approve the application, approve the
application with conditions, or deny the application. The request may only be
approved when the Community Development Director determines that the request is
consistent with all relevant purpose and intent statements for the Downtown and
Transitional Residential Districts. Any adverse impacts resulting from the
administrative adjustment must be mitigated to the maximum extent feasible.
   D.   Final decisions of the Community Development Director may be appealed
by any person aggrieved by the decision in accordance with the procedures of
section
11-1-9  of this Title.
(Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
11-9-6: USES:
   The permitted and not permitted uses in the Downtown and Transitional
Residential Districts are as shown in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. 3259, 6-
24-2019)
11-9-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   The following design standards apply to all properties and uses within the
Downtown and Transitional Residential Districts, in accordance with the
Applicability Standards set forth in Section 3.
   A.   Site
 
Design Standard Additional Requirements
1. Lot Size     No minimum                  
2. Lot Width    No minimum                  
3. Lot Coverage 50% minimum                 
4. Landscaping  Minimum 5% of ground floor Reference Figure 1.
                story sq. footage          May be located anywhere onsite.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2027.png]
 
   B.   Building Placement Setback requirements apply only to the ground floor
story. Building placement standards do not apply to interior remodeling.
 
Design Standard                                           Additional
                                                          Requirements
                                    A minimum of 50% of
1. Lot Line, Primary                the building frontage Reference Figures 1
Street               0 ft. setback  is required to meet   and 2.
                                    the zero lot line
                                    setback.
                                                          Reference Figures 1
                                                          and 2.
                                                          Where a secondary
                                    A minimum of 50% of   street frontage abuts
2. Lot Line,                        the building frontage a Transitional
Secondary Street     0 ft. setback  is required to meet   Residential District,
                                    the zero lot line     first floor
                                    setback.              residential must be
                                                          permitted along the
                                                          secondary street
                                                          frontage.
                                                          Reference Figures 1
                                                          and 2.
                                                          If a setback is
                                                          required, the setback
                                                          must be comprised of
                                    If abutting R-U, R-1, vegetative screening
                                    R-2, R-3, R-4, R-O,   or fencing that
3. Lot Line, Common  0 ft. setback  or TR districts, a 10 conforms to the
                                    ft. minimum setback   requirements as
                                    is required.          specified in Chapter
                                                          24 of this Title.
                                                          This setback cannot
                                                          include vehicle
                                                          parking or
                                                          circulation.
                                                          Reference Figures 1
                                                          and 2.
                                                          The setback shall be
                                                          in addition to
                                                          parking or
                                                          circulation space
                                    If abutting R-U, R-1, necessary to serve
                                    R-2, R-3, R-4, R-O,   the site.
4. Lot Line, Rear    0 ft. setback  TR districts, a 10    If a setback is
                                    ft. minimum setback   required, the setback
                                    is required.          must be comprised of
                                                          vegetative screening
                                                          or fencing that
                                                          conforms to the
                                                          requirements as
                                                          specified in Chapter
                                                          24 of this Title.
                                    On corner lots or
                                    lots with multiple
                                    street frontages,     Reference Figure 2
5. Corner Lot        0 ft. setback  building placement    for guidance on
Orientation                         must conform to       building placement.
                                    primary or secondary
                                    frontage
                                    requirements.
                                                          Reference Figure 2.
                                    The setback is        The setback must be
6. Surface Parking                  applicable only when  landscaped in
Setback              10 ft. minimum parking is located    conformance with
                                    adjacent to the       requirements as
                                    building.             specified in Chapter
                                                          24 of this Title.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2029.png]
 
   C.   Height and Massing
 
Design Standard                                                  Additional
                                                                 Requirements
                                                                 Reference
                                                                 Figure 3.
                                                                 Building
                                                                 height is
                                                                 measured from
                                                                 the ground
                                                                 floor story at
                                                                 grade.
                                                                 Height in
                                                                 excess of 36
                                                                 ft. abutting
                                                  22 ft. minimum R-U, R-1, R-2,
                                                  No maximum     R-3, R-4, R-O,
                                                  height in      TR districts
                                                  Downtown       requires
1. Building Height                                District. 36   upper-story
                                                  ft. maximum    setbacks on
                                                  height in      rear property
                                                  Transitional   boundary at a
                                                  Residential    minimum of 5
                                                  District.      ft./story.
                                                                 Height in
                                                                 excess of 60
                                                                 ft. requires
                                                                 upper story
                                                                 setbacks at a
                                                                 minimum of 5
                                                                 ft./story
                                                                 along primary
                                                                 and secondary
                                                                 street
                                                                 frontages.
                                                  12 ft. minimum
2. Ground Floor Story Height                      from top of     
                                                  floor to top
                                                  of floor
                                                                 Offsets for
                                                                 visual
                                                                 articulation
3. Primary/ Secondary Street Façade Wall Segment                along building
Length                                            45 ft. maximum frontage are
                                                                 required after
                                                                 45 feet of
                                                                 linear wall
                                                                 surface.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2031.png]
 
   D.   Activation
      1.   Transparency
 
Design Standard                                     Additional Requirements
a. Ground Floor Story, Primary Street   50% minimum Reference Figure 4
Frontage
b. Ground Floor Story, Secondary Street 40% minimum Reference Figure 4
Frontage
c. Upper Stories                        30% minimum Reference Figure 4
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2033.png]
 
      2.   Pedestrian Access
 
Design Standard                                         Additional Requirements
                        Minimum of one (1) pedestrian
a. Entrance Spacing     entrance along primary street   Reference Figure 5
                        frontage required
                        5 ft. minimum width for single
b. Walk/ Approach Width door entrance.                  Reference Figure 5
                        10 ft. minimum width for
                        double/revolving door entrance.
                        10 ft. minimum height above
                        grade.
c. Awnings and Canopies 6 ft. maximum overhang into      
                        right-of-way.
                        Ground floor story only.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2035.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2037.png]
 
      3.   Parking
Design Standard                                     Additional Requirements
                                                    No parking is permitted on
                                                    the property in front of a
                                                    building along the primary
                                                    or secondary street
a. Location              Rear or side of building   frontages, unless it is in
                                                    the form of a parking
                                                    structure meeting the
                                                    requirements of this
                                                    Section.
                                                    Reference Figure 7
                         No parking minimums        Maximum parking may be
                         Maximum Allowance:         increased, through the
                         Residential uses:          variance process as
                         DT district: 1 space/      provided for in Chapter 5
                         dwelling unit              of this Title, if no
                         TR district: 2 spaces/     public or shared parking
                         dwelling unit              option is available within
b. Space Allocation      Ground floor story         700 linear feet of the
                         commercial:                property line.
                         DT and TR districts: 2     Maximum parking limitation
                         spaces/1,000 sq. ft.       does not apply to a
                         Upper story commercial: DT parking structure proposed
                         and TR districts: 1 space/ onsite that meets the
                         1,000 sq. ft.              requirements of this
                                                    Section.
                                                    All design standards apply
                         Ground floor story space   to parking structures,
                         must be occupied by a non- with the exception that
c. Parking Structure     parking use along primary  maximum parking caps do
                         and secondary street       not apply if a parking
                         frontages                  structure replaces surface
                                                    parking onsite.
                                                    Drive-through aisles and
                                                    circulation must be
                                                    located to the rear of the
                                                    structure.
                                                    Drive-through aisles and
                                                    circulation must be
                                                    separated from a
                         Drive-Through Aisle width  residential use or from R-
d. Drive- Through Aisles = 10 ft. minimum           U, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-
and Stacking             Stacking length = 2 cars   O, or TR Districts by a
                         maximum                    minimum of 50 ft. with
                                                    vegetative screening or
                                                    fencing in conformance
                                                    with requirements as
                                                    specified in Chapter 24 of
                                                    this Title.
                                                    No more than two aisles
                                                    permitted onsite.
                                                    Loading docks, overhead
                                                    doors for the purpose of
e. Loading and Service   Rear or side of building   loading and delivery and
Entry Location                                      other service entries are
                                                    not permitted on primary
                                                    street frontages
                         Landscaping must conform
f. Parking Lot           with requirements as        
Landscaping              specified in Chapter 24 of
                         this Title.
                         Chapter 22 of this Title
g. Bicycle Parking       applies for minimum         
                         bicycle space
                         requirements.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2039.png]
 
      4.   Landscaping
 
Design Standard                                      Additional Requirements
                          Landscaping is required
                          where a building does not  Landscaping must conform
h. Primary/ Secondary Lot meet the 0 ft. setback     with requirements as
Line Setback              requirement along a        specified in Chapter 24 of
                          primary or secondary       this Title.
                          street frontage.
                          Landscaping is required    Landscaping must conform
i. Common Lot Line        within setback when        with requirements as
Setback                   abutting R-U, R-1, R-2, R- specified in Chapter 24 of
                          3, R-4, R-O, or TR         this Title.
                          Districts
 
      5.   Signs
      Freestanding pole signs, billboards, roof signs, inflatable signs,
animated signs, and changeable copy signs, unless altered manually, are not
permitted in the Districts. The definitions contained in Chapter 23 of this
Title apply unless specifically defined in this Chapter. The stated signage
exemptions in Chapter 23 of this Title apply to the Districts. All other signs
must follow the applicable design standards identified in the standards below.
Design Standard                                          Additional
                                                         Requirements
                                                         Total sign area is
                                                         based on the primary
                                                         use of the lot/
                                                         structure.
a. Total Area        ÷ 120 sq. ft. maximum per building Total sign area may be
                     Home Occupation 6 sq. ft. maximum   divided between sign
                                                         types as set forth
                                                         below for wall signs,
                                                         painted wall signs,
                                                         and window signs.
                                                         Signs may be
                     Maximum 30% of primary building     externally illuminated
b. Wall Sign         facade square footage (not to       with down directed,
                     exceed total sign area permitted)   fully shielded
                                                         fixtures only.
                                                         Reference Figure 9
                                                         Painted wall signs are
                                                         permitted on any
                     Maximum 40% of primary building     exterior building wall
c. Painted Wall Sign facade square footage (not to       Signs may be
                     exceed total sign area permitted)   externally illuminated
                                                         with down directed,
                                                         fully shielded
                                                         fixtures only.
                     Maximum 30% of primary building
d. Window Sign       facade ground floor story window     
                     area (not to exceed total sign area
                     permitted)
                                                         Combined signage
                                                         required for buildings
                                                         with multiple business
                     1 sign/frontage                     activities.
e. Monument Sign     60 sq. ft. maximum                  Signs may be
                     6 ft. height maximum                externally illuminated
                                                         with down directed,
                                                         fully shielded
                                                         fixtures only.
                                                         Reference Figure 10
                     1 sign/canopy                       External illumination
f. Canopy/ Awning    1 sq. ft./lineal foot of awning     of a canopy or awning
Sign                 width                               sign is not permitted.
                     10 ft. height minimum
                                                         Signs may be
                     1 sign/business                     externally illuminated
                     16 sq. ft. maximum                  with down directed,
g. Projecting Signs  8 ft. height minimum (from bottom   fully shielded
                     of sign to grade)                   fixtures only.
                     4 ft. maximum projection            Reference Figures 10
                                                         and 11
h. Sandwich Board    1 sign/business                     Signs must be removed
Signs                12 sq. ft. maximum per sign face    from location at the
                                                         close of business.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2041.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2043.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec545dc7702170b6d737ff4a23e5a5377f9d5e36/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2045.png]
 
(Ord. 3259, 6-24-2019)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 11
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 12
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 13
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 14
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 15
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 16
T TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-16-1:   Intent
11-16-2:   Application
11-16-3:   Uses Permitted
11-16-4:   Standards
11-16-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to assure, in appropriate situations, an orderly,
proper and harmonious transition between zone districts of different
restrictions and characteristics. In such situations, the nature, and/or
physical orientation of structures and improvements, and all uses, can be
required to adhere to standards established by the creation of the district.
(Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-16-2: APPLICATION:
Any standards imposed under this chapter shall be added by ordinance to the
provisions of the district to which they are applied (i.e., B-1-T means all the
provisions of both the B-1 and T districts are applicable). (Ord. 2359, 5-20-
1985)
11-16-3: USES PERMITTED:
In granting or denying a building or occupancy permit in a district subject to
standard imposed under this chapter, the director of building and safety shall
be governed by the specific standards imposed by the ordinance establishing the
same. In approving, conditionally approving or denying a proposed use subject
to its review, the city commission shall consider both the specific standards
imposed under this chapter by the ordinance establishing the same and the
general standards established under this title for the district to which such
additional, specific standards are applied. Any use permitted of right in any
such district shall be established and conducted in conformity with any terms
and conditions established pursuant to this chapter for that district. (Ord.
2359, 5-20-1985)
11-16-4: STANDARDS:
The zoning commission recommendation to the city commission for creation of a
particular district under this chapter shall include specific development
standards and may include performance standards. Any such district and its
specific standards shall be adopted concurrently. Such standards may provide
for:
   A.   Special setbacks, yards, open spaces, and buffers.
   B.   Fences, walls, and screening.
   C.   Lighting.
   D.   Regulation of points of vehicular ingress and egress.
   E.   Regulation of signs.
   F.   Required landscaping and maintenance thereof, in addition to that
required by chapter 24 of this title.
   G.   Required maintenance of grounds.
   H.   Such other conditions as will assure development of the city in an
orderly, harmonious and efficient manner and in conformity of intent and
purpose of this title. (Ord. 2359 5-20-1985)
CHAPTER 17
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 18
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 19
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 20
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 21
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 22
OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
11-22-1:   Intent Of Off Street Parking Requirements
11-22-2:   Definition
11-22-3:   Minimum Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces Required
11-22-4:   ADA Accessible Parking
11-22-5:   Off Street Parking Design Standards
11-22-6:   Nonconforming Parking
11-22-7:   Off Site And Shared Parking
11-22-8:   Pedestrian Access And Bicycle Space Requirements
11-22-9:   Parking Space Reductions
11-22-1: INTENT OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The intent of these parking requirements is to ensure that a reasonable amount
of off street parking is created for development and to lessen hazardous
conditions on streets. The intent of this chapter is further defined by these
objectives for parking:
   A.   Ensure adequate bicycle parking and increase the number of walking and
biking trips used for travel between buildings and uses.
   B.   Encourage infill development and pedestrian activity.
   C.   Reduce the emission of greenhouse gases from the driving of internal
combustion engine powered vehicles that have an impact on climate change. (Ord.
3152, 4-23-2012)
11-22-2: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, the following term and its derivations shall have
the meaning given herein:
   HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS: Dwelling units operated under any state or
federal program that are specifically designed and operated for elderly persons
or any dwelling unit that is operated for occupancy by at least one person
fifty five (55) years of age or older per unit in at least eighty percent (80%)
of the occupied units and adheres to a policy that demonstrates intent to house
persons fifty five (55) or older. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
11-22-3: MINIMUM NUMBER OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for each land
use, unless parking reductions are allowed, is shown below, except that parking
requirements for land uses in the Downtown and Transitional Residential
Districts are regulated as provided for in Chapter 9 of this Title. All
calculations are rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Land Use On Site Parking Requirement
Land Use                                           On Site Parking Requirement
Residential uses:                                   
                                                   1 space/room for rent plus 2
 Boarding/rooming house, 1 – 3 residents        additional spaces if part of
                                                   building is used as a
                                                   single-dwelling unit
                                                   1 space/room for rent plus 2
 Boarding/rooming house, 4 – 20 residents       additional spaces if part of
                                                   building is used as a
                                                   single-dwelling unit
 Community residential facility, type I, 1 – 12 1 space for each 3 sleeping
  residents                                        area rooms
 Community residential facility, type II, 13 or   1 space for each 3 sleeping
  more residents                                   area rooms
 Mobile home park                                 2 spaces/dwelling unit
 Residence, single-dwelling unit                  2 spaces/dwelling unit
 Residence, two-dwelling units                    2 spaces/dwelling unit
 Residence, multiple-dwelling units (3 or more    1 space/dwelling unit
  units):
  Housing for older persons                      1 space/dwelling unit
Nonresidential uses:                                
 Agricultural uses:                                
  Horticulture                                   None required
 Community services/uses:                          
  Administrative government agency               3.0 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Animal shelter                                 2.79 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Community center                               4 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Community cultural facility                    2 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Correctional facility                          3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Prerelease center                              3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Public safety facility                         3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Worship facility                               0.25 space/seat
 Education:                                        
  Higher education                               0.31 space/student
  Instructional facility                         0.31 space/student
  K – 12:                                       
     Elementary/middle school                 0.12 space/student
     High school                              0.31 space/student
 Food and beverage sales:                          
  Casino                                         14 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Restaurant                                     14 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Restaurant, drive-in:                           
     21 or more seats                         14 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Less than 21 seats                       0.5 space/seat
  Specialized food production:                    
     Area used for on site consumption        14 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Manufacturing/production area            1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Tavern                                         14 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
 Healthcare:                                       
  Healthcare center                              4.11 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Healthcare facility                            1.8 spaces/bed
 Industrial/manufacturing:                         
                                                   0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa;
  Contractor yard                                no less than 1 on site space
                                                   must be provided
  Industrial, heavy                              1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Industrial, light                              1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Industrial park                                1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Junkyard                                       1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Motor vehicle wrecking facility                1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
 Overnight accommodations:                         
  Bed and breakfast                              0.89 space/room plus 1
                                                   space/dwelling unit
  Campground/RV park                             1 space/RV or tent space
  Country inn                                    0.89 space/room plus 1
                                                   space/dwelling unit
  Emergency shelter                              1 space/3 rooms
  Hotel/motel                                    0.89 space/room
 Recreation, indoor:                               
  Indoor entertainment, sports and recreation:   4.37 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
     Theaters for movies and performing arts  0.25 space/seat
 Recreation, outdoor:                              
  Open space                                     None required
  Outdoor entertainment, sports and recreation   0.25 space/seat
  Parks/playgrounds                              None required
 Rental and repair:                                
  General repair                                 1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Large equipment rental                         2.92 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Small equipment rental                         2.92 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
 Sales:                                            
  Agriculture supply sales                       2.1 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Auction sales                                  2.1 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Construction material sales                    3.29 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  General/specialty sales:                       3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Furniture/carpet/appliance store         1 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Grocery store                            3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Machinery sales                          1.5 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Manufactured housing sales                     2.1 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Sexually oriented business                     3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Shopping center                                3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
 Services:                                         
  Administrative services                        3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Artisan shop                                   1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Commercial kennel                              1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Crematorium                                    1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Daycare, adult (up to 12)                      3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Daycare center (13 or more children)           3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Daycare, family                                None required
  Daycare, group                                 3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
                                                   3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa;
                                                   stacking lanes for each
  Financial services                             drive up and ATM do not
                                                   count toward the on site
                                                   parking requirement
  Funeral home                                   0.25 space/seat
  General/professional services                  3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Veterinary clinic, large or small animals      3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
 Storage:                                          
  Agricultural commodity storage facility        0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Fuel tank farm                                 0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Ministorage facility                           0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Warehouse                                      0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
 Transportation:                                   
  Airport                                        None required
  Bus terminal:                                   
     Office space                             3.0 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     Storage                                  0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Freight terminal                               0.5 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Parking lot                                    n/a
  Parking structure                              n/a
  Railroad yard                                  1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
 Utilities:                                        
  Composting                                     1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Recycling                                      1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Utility, distributed power                     1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Utility, major                                 1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
  Utility, minor                                 1.19 spaces/1,000 sq. ft.
                                                   gfa
 Vehicle trade and service:                        
  Vehicle fuel sales:                            2.1 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
     If combined with convenience store       3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Vehicle repair                                 2.1 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Vehicle sales and rental                       1 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
  Vehicle services                               1 space/1,000 sq. ft. gfa
 
   B.   For uses not specifically provided for in this section, the director of
community development may determine the minimum number of parking spaces
required, using as a guide the listed use which most closely resembles the use
proposed. In each such case, the city manager will be notified of the action
taken. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012; amd. Ord. 3260, 6-24-2019)
11-22-4: ADA ACCESSIBLE PARKING:
   A.   Accessible parking spaces must be provided, located, designed, and
signed according to the federal Americans with disabilities act and the
regulations and ADA accessibility guidelines promulgated by the United States
department of justice.
   B.   The required number of off street parking spaces may be reduced to
accommodate changes in the number of accessible parking spaces to comply with
the federal Americans with disabilities act, Americans with disabilities act
amendment act, and the regulations and ADA accessibility guidelines promulgated
by the United States department of justice. A variance is not required if this
change reduces the number of off street parking spaces below the minimum off
street parking requirement. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
11-22-5: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Off street parking spaces must be at least nine feet (9') wide and
twenty feet (20') long, exclusive of access drives, rights of way, or ramps for
all uses except for tracts with only a single-dwelling unit residence, two-
dwelling unit residence, or three-dwelling unit residence.
   B.   All off street parking spaces and access areas must be improved with a
minimum of two inches (2") of asphalt concrete paving on a suitable base, or
comparable section of portland cement concrete, or textured concrete with
colored aggregate, pavers, or other suitable material which may include
permeable alternatives, in accordance with specifications established by city
of Helena engineering design standards. Required off street parking must be
completed prior to the occupancy of the building. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
   C.   For off-street parking spaces located in the Downtown and Transitional
Residential Districts the requirement specified in Chapter 9 of this Title
apply in addition to the requirements in A and B. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012; amd.
Ord. 3260, 6-24-2019)
11-22-6: NONCONFORMING PARKING:
   A.   Any lot, parcel, or tract, or use of a lot, parcel, or tract, which on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto is nonconforming as
to compliance with the parking required under this chapter, the amount and
location of parking on the lot, parcel, or tract, may be continued in the same
manner as if it were conforming.
   B.   Except for existing single-dwelling unit residences, the parking
requirements of this chapter apply to the lot, parcel, or tract when the off
street parking is reconstructed or changed, or if the gross floor area of any
building on the lot, parcel, or tract is increased by more than twenty five
percent (25%). (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
11-22-7: OFF SITE AND SHARED PARKING:
   A.   Required off street parking must be located on the same lot, parcel,
tract, or combination of lots, parcels, or tracts under a common ownership and
used for a common purpose, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Required off street parking for buildings and uses located in the B-1,
B-2, B-3, DT, TR, CLM, M-I, and PLI zoning districts may be located within
seven hundred feet (700') of the buildings and uses, as measured along a
straight line between the two (2) nearest points of the building containing the
main use and the off-site parking use.
   C.   Off-site and shared parking structures located within the Downtown and
Transitional Residential Districts must comply with requirements contained in
Chapter 9 of this Title.
   D.   The director of community development may authorize the shared use of
off street parking areas by different buildings and uses, if the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The uses do not have similar operating hours or other conflicting
demands;
      2.   The buildings must be located within seven hundred feet (700') of
the shared off street parking area, as measured by a straight line between the
two (2) nearest points of the building containing the use and the lot, parcel,
or tract containing the parking area;
      3.   Adequate pedestrian access between the parking lot and the use is
provided;
      4.   At the time an application for a building permit is submitted, the
applicant must present to the director of community development an appropriate
and enforceable lease or agreement, executed by the parties concerned, for the
joint use of off street parking facilities. The term of the lease or agreement
must be for the duration of the time each use is in existence at the location.
Each such lease or agreement shall provide that all parties thereto shall
notify the director of community development prior to its termination or
dissolution for any reason;
      5.   A building permit may not be issued until such lease or agreement
has first been reviewed by the city attorney and found to meet the requirements
of this chapter and to be binding and enforceable. A copy of each such
agreement must be filed with the respective building permit; and
      6.   In case of termination or dissolution of any such lease or
agreement, each use previously providing off premises or off site parking must
cease until adequate off street parking, meeting the requirements of this
chapter, is again provided. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012; amd. Ord. 3260, 6-24-2019)
11-22-8: PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND BICYCLE SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Pedestrian pathways must be located through parking areas to provide
the shortest feasible connection from the parking area to building entryways,
public sidewalks, and transit stops. Pedestrian pathways in and through parking
areas must be designed and constructed to meet the following criteria:
      1.   Limit conflict between pedestrians and vehicular traffic;
      2.   Be clearly delineated using techniques such as contrasting textured
or colored material, striping, segregation of pathway from vehicle travel
lanes, and raised pathway surfaces; and
      3.   Must be a minimum of five feet (5') wide.
   B.   Vehicle stops or curbing must be installed in parking lots where
necessary to prevent vehicles from encroaching over sidewalks, pedestrian
pathways, entryway areas, driveways, streets, alleys, or more than two feet
(2') into landscaped areas.
   C.   Parking lots that have ten (10) or more parking spaces must provide
three (3) bicycle spaces within fifty feet (50') of a main building entryway.
Parking lots that have fifty (50) or more parking spaces must provide
additional secure bicycle parking equal to five percent (5%) of the total
number of parking spaces in excess of ten (10). Bicycle spaces must hold a bike
upright, allow for securing the bicycle to an immovable object, and not
conflict with pedestrian and vehicle traffic. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
11-22-9: PARKING SPACE REDUCTIONS:
A reduction in the minimum required number of off street parking spaces is
permitted in this section. Parking space reductions under this section may not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the minimum off street requirement, except as
provided in subsection A4 of this section. Required off street parking spaces
may be reduced as follows:
   A.   Nonresidential uses:
      1.   On street parking spaces may satisfy the off street parking
requirements, on a one for one basis, for each legal on street parking space on
a public street right of way that is immediately adjacent to the property
containing the use. Each uninterrupted twenty (20) linear feet in the portion
of the public street designated for public parking of vehicles located within
imaginary extensions of the property boundaries onto the street is one parking
space. If the boundary extensions intersect any continuous twenty foot (20')
length used to determine a parking space, that intersected portion is
considered one parking space, regardless of size. Recognition of this space
does not create a property interest in the on street parking and does not
guarantee permanent availability of that space within public right of way.
      2.   A twenty percent (20%) reduction in the total number of parking
spaces is permitted if a city approved transit stop is located within three
hundred feet (300') of the property, a safe and convenient pedestrian access
exists, and a covered transit stop and seating area exists.
      3.   For every two (2) bicycle spaces on the property above the number
required for the minimum bicycle space requirements, one required off street
parking space requirement is satisfied. The maximum reduction allowed under
this subsection is twenty percent (20%) of the minimum off street parking
spaces required. This reduction cannot reduce the number of required accessible
parking spaces. Bicycle spaces must hold a bike upright, allow for securing the
bicycle to an immovable object, be clearly visible, provide shelter from
weather elements, and not conflict with pedestrian and vehicle traffic.
      4.   Worship facilities may reduce on site parking requirements by ninety
percent (90%) if the applicant shows the required number of parking spaces can
be met by other private or public parking spaces located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the property. The applicant must demonstrate that these off
site spaces are primarily used during noncompeting operating hours and there
are pedestrian facilities to connect the off site parking to the property.
      5.   A reduction of up to three (3) spaces, not to exceed ten percent
(10%) of the minimum requirement, is permitted if a city approved, advanced
charging station for electric vehicles is provided.
      6.   A ten percent (10%) reduction in the number of parking spaces may be
permitted if a landscaped area is provided to create public space greater than
three hundred (300) square feet. This landscaped public space must be in
addition to the landscaping required by this title and must:
         a.   Be located within one hundred feet (100') of a main building
entrance;
         b.   Have places to sit and visit with other people;
         c.   Be designed and constructed to accommodate pedestrians;
         d.   Have art features; and
         e.   Have at least two (2) trees and meet the landscaping standards of
section
11-24-6 of this title.
   B.   Single-, two- and multiple-dwelling unit residential uses: For
residential uses containing a single-dwelling unit or a two-dwelling unit
located in any zoning district; or a multiple-dwelling unit located within an
R-3, R-4, R-O, B-1, B-2, or B-3 zoning district, on street parking spaces may
satisfy the off street parking requirements, on a one for one basis, for each
legal on street parking space on a public street right of way that is
immediately adjacent to the property containing the use. Each uninterrupted
twenty (20) linear feet in the portion of the public street designated for
public parking of vehicles located within imaginary extensions of the property
boundaries onto the street is one parking space. If the boundary extensions
intersect any continuous twenty foot (20') length used to determine a parking
space, that intersected portion is considered one parking space, regardless of
size.
   C.   Multiple-dwelling unit residential uses: A twenty percent (20%)
reduction in the total number of off street parking spaces is permitted if a
city approved transit stop is located within three hundred feet (300') of the
property or if other transportation services are provided to and from the
property. (Ord. 3152, 4-23-2012)
CHAPTER 23
GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-23-1:   General
11-23-2:   Definitions
11-23-3:   Prohibitions
11-23-4:   Exempt Signs
11-23-5:   Regulations For Specified Districts
11-23-6:   Sign Lighting Standards
11-23-7:   Nonconforming Signs
11-23-8:   Removal of Signs
11-23-9:   Design Guidelines
11-23-10:   Planned Sign Program
11-23-11:   Billboards
11-23-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Intent: This chapter is intended to provide standards for the design,
placement, and erection of signage. The standards established by this chapter
are intended to provide equal opportunity for messages to be displayed, achieve
proper relationship of signs to their environment, enhance the outward
appearance of the community, secure pedestrian and vehicular safety, and
preserve the historic aspects of the city.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter applies to all signs erected, installed,
structurally altered, or otherwise modified after the effective date of this
Code. Adoption of this code does not permit signs erected in violation of
previous versions of this chapter. Nonconforming signs are subject to the
provisions of §
11-23-7.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   The sign administrator for the city shall be the director of the
community development department or the administrator's designees. It shall be
the administrator's responsibility to:
         a.   Review, approve and process applications for and issue sign
permits;
         b.   Conduct public hearings to resolve requests received for
variances to the general sign regulations before the governing body;
         c.   Approve a Planned Sign Program;
         d.   Enter any premises, building or structure in the city following
the presentation of proper credentials for the purpose of inspection of a sign
and its structural and/or electrical connections to ensure compliance with
applicable codes and ordinances;
         e.   Enforce and carry out all provisions of this code.
   D.   Permit Required:   
      1.   Unless specifically exempted in §
11-23-4 a permit must be obtained prior to erection, installation, display, or
alteration of sign.
      2.   A permit is not required to change the face of a sign provided there
is no change to the type of display face being used which shall be considered
an alteration.
      3.   Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee based upon the sign's valuation and as determined from the
current building permit fee schedule adopted by the building department. Each
application for a variance shall be accompanied by the fee established for that
process by city resolution. No sign as described or limited by the provisions
of this chapter shall be erected or otherwise installed or altered without
first having obtained a permit.
      4.   If erection of a sign, later found to be acceptable, occurs on a
property prior to approval and permitting by the administrator, the specified
permit fee shall be doubled as provided for in the building permit fee
schedule.
      5.   When a sign is erected illegally without proper review, approval or
permit, or when, in the opinion of the administrator, a violation of the
general sign regulations exists, the administrator shall identify and notify
the alleged violator in writing of the need to:
         a.   Correct or remove said violation within ten (10) days; or
         b.   To make appeal of the administrator's determination in writing to
the city manager within ten (10) days.
      Any pending enforcement action will be held in abeyance during this
period, and if an appeal is received, until such appeal is resolved (see also:
§
11-23-8). The notice requirements of this part do not apply in a case of
emergency as provided in §
11-23-8D.
   E.   Substitution Clause: A protected noncommercial message of any type may
be substituted, in whole or in part, for the message displayed on any sign for
which the sign structure or mounting device is legal without consideration of
message content. This provision applies to all signs, including billboards,
allowed under this ordinance. Such substitution of message may be made without
any additional approval, permitting, registration or notice to the city.
   F.   Standards:
      1.   Setbacks And Encroachments:
         a.   District dimensional standards for buildings do not apply to
signs.
         b.   Awning, canopy, pedestrian, or projecting signs can encroach 42
inches beyond the property line over a public right-of-way provided that:
            (1)   The sign cannot encroach within a vertical plane measured 2'
(two feet) from the back of the curb;
            (2)   The bottom edge of the sign must maintain a clearance of at
least 10' (ten feet) from the finish grade level below the sign (or a variance
must be obtained from the governing body);
            (3)   The encroachment cannot constitute a hazard to the use of the
right-of-way by the public;
            (4)   Encroachment cannot be placed in a way as to constitute an
obstacle in violation of local, state, and federal universal accessibility
laws, rules, and regulations.
         c.   Placing an encroachment in the right-of-way as permitted by this
section does not grant any property rights in the City's right-of-way to the
owner of the encroachment.
         d.   The city may, without warning, perform construction and
maintenance activities within the right-of-way. The city is not responsible for
any damage to any encroachments present in the right-of-way when performing
these activities.
         e.   Encroachments permitted by this section are subject to removal,
at property owner's expense, upon sixty (60) calendar days written notice from
the City.
      2.   Maintenance:
         a.   All signs must meet the following provisions for maintenance.
Signs that do not meet these provisions must be repaired or removed within
ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of notification from the Sign
Administrator. Violations of this chapter are subject to the provisions of §
11-23-8.
         b.   The area around a sign must be properly maintained to make the
sign readily visible.
         c.   All non-functioning bulbs or damaged sign faces or panels must be
replaced or repaired within sixty (60) calendar days of written notice, or
proof of an order for parts or services and a timeline not to exceed 180 days
from the notice of violation for the repairs to be made must be given to the
sign administrator.
         d.   All sign copy must be maintained securely on the sign face or
panel and all missing copy must be replaced within sixty (60) calendar days of
written notice, or proof of an order for parts or services and a timeline not
to exceed 180 days from the notice of violation for the repairs to be made must
be given to the sign administrator.
         e.   All sign structures, framework, and poles must be structurally
sound.
         f.   All signs in their installation, maintenance, and removal must
comply with the provision of the building and electrical codes adopted by the
city.
   G.   Application For Permits/Variances:
      1.   Application for a permit for the erection or alteration of a sign or
to request a variance by the governing body from a specific sign criterion as
set forth in chapter 5 of this title shall be made upon the forms provided by
the administrator.
      2.   Applications must be complete to be considered valid. Failure to
provide the information requested on the form is grounds for rejection of the
application as incomplete. Any reason for rejection of an application for a
sign permit shall be noted on the application and returned to the applicant.
The reasons for denial of a variance request following proper hearing shall be
noted on the governing body's order and decision form and a copy sent to
applicant.
   H.   A planned sign program in accordance with §
11-23-10 is required to receive sign permits for any business or group of
business uses on a parcel or group of parcels greater than 2 acres with common
access and parking.
   I.   No sign permitted in the Airport district shall obscure vision from the
control tower to any part of the airfield.
   J.   Sandwich Board Signs must be:
      1.   Located on-premise, or immediately adjacent to the premise in the
public right-of-way if the building has a 0' lot line setback;
      2.   Positioned so as not to interfere in any way with the use of the
public right-of-way;
      3.   Removed from location at the close of business. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-
2024)
11-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in this Chapter have their normal dictionary meaning unless they are
listed in §
11-23-2 or unless this Chapter specifically refers to another Title and/or
Chapter. Words listed in §
11-23-2 have the specific meaning stated or referenced unless the context
clearly indicates another meaning.
                A sign which no longer correctly advertises a bona fide
ABANDONED SIGN: business, lessor, owner, product, or activity conducted, or
                product available on the premises where the sign is displayed
                or elsewhere.
ABANDONED     A sign which no longer correctly advertises a bona fide business, lessor,
SIGN:         owner, product, or activity conducted, or product available on the premises
              where the sign is displayed or elsewhere.
              The moving or modification, in any manner, of a sign including, but not limited
ALTERATION OF to, changes to the sign structure, height, size or area, shape, face type, or
SIGN:         foundation, but excluding the exchange, replacement or repainting of the sign
              faces of cabinet type signs where there are no changes to the original cabinet.
ANIMATED      A sign or display manifesting either kinetic or illusionary motion occasioned
SIGN:         by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical, or other means exclusive of
              electronic message display faces.
              A sign that is affixed to a roof- like structure; generally composed of a
              skeletal frame covered in a fabric or other skin-type material typically open
AWNING SIGN:  on the bottom side, that extends along and projects beyond the wall of the
              building and is generally designed and constructed to provide protection from
              the weather.
BANNER:       A temporary, on-premise, nonrigid sign that is generally hung from a permanent
              or temporary structure for the purpose of advertising.
BILLBOARD
BUSINESS      Business permit(s) required for each billboard sign face in the city.
PERMIT(s):
BILLBOARD     A permanent off-premise sign in a fixed location used, in whole or in part, for
SIGN:         the display of off-site commercial messages with a minimum size of one hundred
              and fifty (150) square feet.
              The portion of any exterior elevation of a building extending from grade to the
BUILDING      top of the parapet wall or eaves for the entire width of the building
FAÇADE:      elevation, or that portion comprising the exterior elevation of one business
              located in a multiple-tenant structure.
BUILDING      The side of a building which faces a public street right of way.
FRONTAGE:
              A sign affixed to or a part of an open, roof like accessory structure, which is
CANOPY SIGN:  not attached or a part of a principal building, that is generally designed and
              constructed to provide protection from the weather.
              An on-premise, freestanding sign intended to be shared by all tenants or
COMMON SIGN:  businesses within a single building or group of buildings that share common
              drives and parking areas.
ELECTRONIC    A sign capable of displaying words, symbols, figures, or images that can be
MESSAGE       electronically changed by remote or automatic means.
DISPLAY FACE:
              The attachment, installation, alteration, building, constructing,
ERECTED:      reconstructing, enlargement, moving, or painting of signs, or the relocation,
              placement, or alteration of individual sign letters (excluding manual reader
              board copy) or cabinets.
EXTERNALLY    A sign that is illuminated by an artificial light source that is not contained
ILLUMINATED:  within the sign itself and is intended or positioned to illuminate the sign.
FREESTANDING  An on-premise sign supported by structure(s) or support(s) that are placed on,
SIGN:         or anchored in, the ground, and that are independent from any building or any
              other structure.
GHOST SIGNS:  A sign, painted upon the facade of a building, that is more than fifty (50)
              years old, and which generally advertises an extinct business or product.
              The illumination of a sign that is comprised of individually mounted opaque
HALO LIT:     raised letters or symbols with back-lighting so the light source is not
              directly visible.
HEIGHT OF     The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the sign to the
SIGN:         highest adjacent street grade or surface beneath the sign, whichever
              measurement results in a lower overall height.
              An on-premise, permanent, sign containing an informational message that has a
INCIDENTAL    purpose incidentally related to the use or occupancy of the premises and is
SIGN (MAJOR   intended to assist the public with respect to the location of business
OR MINOR):    facilities or provides courtesy or directive information but is not an
              advertisement.
INTERNALLY    A sign supplied with light from an internal light source.
ILLUMINATED:
              An on-premise sign attached to or constructed on a canopy structure which is
MARQUEE SIGN: attached to and projecting horizontally beyond the wall of a building that
              generally is designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
              A freestanding sign mounted directly to the ground, or with its bottom edge
MONUMENT      flush to the ground, not more than twelve (12) feet tall, and which may be
SIGN:         placed on a berm not exceeding two and one-half feet (21/2') above the adjacent
              street grade or surface beneath the sign, whichever is less.
NONCONFORMING A sign which was lawfully erected and maintained prior to the adoption of this
SIGN:         chapter and all amendments, which now fails to conform to all applicable
              regulations and restrictions of this chapter.
OFF-PREMISE   A sign structure advertising an establishment, merchandise, service, or
SIGN:         entertainment, which is not sold, produced, manufactured, or furnished at the
              property on which the sign is located.
ON-PREMISE    A sign which directs persons to; or advertises goods, products, services, or
SIGN:         facilities situated or provided at the same premises where the sign is
              installed.
POLE BANNER   A sign suspended from brackets mounted on a light pole.
SIGN:
PORTABLE      A sign mounted on a trailer, stand or similar support structure which is
SIGN:         designed in such a manner that the sign can be readily relocated to provide
              advertising at another location.
PROJECTING    An on-premise sign affixed to the exterior wall of a structure and extends
SIGN:         perpendicular to the facade of the building or structure.
READER BOARD: A sign or portion of a sign containing a message for public display that is
              manually altered periodically.
ROOF SIGN:    An on-premise sign erected upon or above any portion of a roof or parapet wall
              of a building that is wholly or partially supported by the building.
              A sign or structure that is freestanding, temporary and movable, composed of
SANDWICH      two sign faces mounted or attached back-to-back in such a manner as to form a
BOARD SIGNS:  triangle with the ground and sign faces (also known as an A-frame sign). The
              area of a sandwich board sign is calculated on one side only.
              Any identification, description, graphics, illustration, or device that is
SIGN:         visible from any public place and exposed to the public which directs attention
              to a product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business, or
              solicitation, designed to advertise, identify, or convey information.
              The entire area within any type of perimeter or border which encloses the outer
              limits of writing, representation, emblem, figure, or character. The area of
              the sign having no such perimeter or border is computed by enclosing the entire
SIGN AREA:    area with parallelograms, triangles, or circles of the smallest size sufficient
              to cover the entire area of the sign and computing the area of these
              parallelograms, triangles, or circles. The area for double- faced or multiple-
              faced signs is the aggregate area of all the sign faces visible from any one
              direction at any one time.
SUSPENDED     An on-premise freestanding sign comprised of a vertical column, a horizontal
SIGN:         decorative sign support, and a suspended sign face.
TEMPORARY     An on-premise sign intended for a limited period under specially defined
SIGN:         requirements.
UNDER MARQUEE An on-premise lighted or unlighted display attached to the underside of a
OR AWNING     marquee or awning that extends over public or private sidewalks or rights of
SIGN:         way.
VEHICLE SIGN: A message or graphic affixed to a vehicle and intended to provide off-premise,
              or additional on-premise signage for a commercial entity.
              An on-premise sign affixed in any manner, including paint, to the exterior wall
WALL SIGN:    of a building or structure with its face parallel to the building façade,
              including signs affixed to awnings.
WINDOW SIGN:  An on-premise sign installed inside or upon the window surface for the purpose
              of viewing from outside the premises. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
 
11-23-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Signs and sign face types that are not listed as permitted within a
district are prohibited.
   B.   Signs may not be erected in such a manner that they obstruct or create
a hazard by blocking the clear view of vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian
traffic as set forth in §
7-3-7 of this code; or where they may obstruct the view of any traffic control
device. No sign or its illumination may interfere with traffic safety or
simulate emergency services.
   C.   Signs may not be placed on or extend into any public rights-of-way
except as outlined in §
11-23-1F1 and §
11-23-1J, nor be affixed to any post, tree, or pole located in any public
right-of-way or upon any city owned property, including signs held by a person,
except for signs placed by authorized agents of the city or except as permitted
by
Title 7, Chapter 13 of this code.
   D.   No sign may be constructed or erected that resembles any official
marker erected by the city, state, or any governmental agency, or that by
reason of position, shape, or color would conflict with the proper functioning
of any traffic sign or signal.
   E.   Off-premise signs with the following exceptions:
      1.   Billboards (see: §
11-23-11);
      2.   Signs placed by the local authority in the public right-of-way;
      3.   Signs in a PLI zone type with the following uses:
         a.   Indoor entertainment, sports and recreation;
         b.   Outdoor entertainment, sports and recreation;
         c.   Parks/playgrounds;
         d.   Outdoor concerts and theatrical performances.
   F.   Any of the following sign types are expressly prohibited:
      1.   Animated signs;
      2.   Balloons;
      3.   Bench signs;
      4.   On-premise canopy signs;
      5.   Portable signs;
      6.   Powered, air-activated devices;
      7.   Reflective or mirrored signs;
      8.   Vehicle signs that are on-premise and not involved in the regular
operations of the advertised business or used off-premise in the performance of
an explicitly advertising function;
      9.   Signs that are flashed or projected on walls or other structures by
means of a slide projector, laser, or other devices. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-4: EXEMPT SIGNS:
   A.   The following signs are allowed by right in all zoning districts
without a permit but must adhere to the specific size restrictions in this
chapter. A permit is not required for the following types of signs, provided
all applicable provisions of this section are met. Such signs are not
considered in determining the allowable number or size of signs on a lot.
      1.   Ghost Signs:
         a.   Nothing in this chapter shall interfere with the restoration of a
ghost sign.
         b.   Ghost signage shall not be included in calculating the allowable
signage on a property.
      2.   House numbers and street names for the purpose of identifying the
property for emergency services and mail delivery.
      3.   Public interest signs, erected by or on the order of a public
officer in the performance of their duty, such as public notices, safety sign,
danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic and street signs, wayfinding signs,
memorial plaques, and signs of historical interest.
      4.   Any sign internal to a development not intended to be visible from
the right-of-way or neighboring property.
      5.   Canopy signs for the duration of a temporary event.
      6.   One under-marquee or under-awning signs where allowed, under six
square feet (6sf) in size per business, and where the bottom edge of the sign
is at least eight (8) feet above grade.
      7.   Feather flags are only permitted in R-4, R-O, B-1, B-2, CLM, and PLI
zoning districts at the rate of one per primary structure with an additional
flag permitted per 200' linear feet of frontage beyond the first 100'.
   B.   Temporary signs are allowed to be erected so long as the following
conditions are met:
      1.   That the signs are not illuminated in any manner;
      2.   That the signs are not erected in a permanent manner; and
      3.   That they follow the requirements of their zoning districts outlined
below:
         a.   Any lot, parcel, or group of parcels serving a common purpose may
have two temporary signs up to 24sf for as long as there is an active building
permit for a new primary structure.
         b.   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-O, R-U, TR, DT, and B-1 zoning districts:
Temporary sign(s) may not exceed six (6) square feet in area or 6' in height.
         c.   B-2, CLM, M-I, and PLI zoning districts: Temporary signs may not
individually exceed twenty-four (24) square feet or exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in the aggregate.
   C.   Incidental minor signs. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-5: REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIED DISTRICTS:
TABLE 1: ALLOWABLE BUILDING SIGNAGE:
For DT and TR districts see
Ch. 9.
For district specific dimensional standards see "Design Guidelines" in this
chapter (§
11-23-9).
 
SIGN TYPE        ZONE
                 R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2, CLM, M-I PLI Airport
Marquee and/or   P             P             P                  P   P
awning sign:
Projecting sign: NP            P             P                  NP  P
Roof sign:       NP            NP            P                  NP  NP
Wall sign:       P             P             P                  P   P
Window sign:     P             P             P                  P   P
 
TABLE 2: ALLOWABLE SITE SIGNAGE:
For DT and TR districts see
Ch. 9.
For dimensional standards see "Design Guidelines" in this chapter (§
11-23-9).
 
SIGN TYPE            ZONE
                     R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2, CLM, M-I PLI Airport
Billboard sign:      NP            NP            P                  NP  NP
Common sign:         P             P*            P*                 P*  P*
Freestanding sign:   P             P             P                  P   P
Incidental major     NP            P*            P*                 P*  P*
sign:
Sandwich board sign: NP            P             P                  P   P
*As part of an approved Planned Sign Program element.
TABLE 3: ALLOWABLE DISPLAY FACE TYPES:
For DT and TR districts see
Ch. 9.
FACE TYPE ZONE
          R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2, CLM, M-I PLI Airport
FACE TYPE            ZONE
                     R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2, CLM, M-I PLI Airport
Electronic message   NP            NP            P                  P*  P
display face:
Externally
illuminated w/       P             P             P                  P   P
downward facing
lights
Halo lit:            NP            P             P                  P   P
Internally           NP            NP            P                  NP  P
illuminated
Non-illuminated and  P             P             P                  P   P
permanent in nature
Reader board (manual NP            NP            P                  P   P
change)
*Not permitted with open lands uses in PLI
(Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-6: SIGN LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Signs that are permitted to be lighted may only be lighted in such a
manner that the light therefrom may shine only on the sign or on the property
on which it is located and may not shine onto any other property, in any
direction, except by indirect reflection. No lighting arrangement is permitted
which, by reason of brilliance or reflected light, is a detriment to
surrounding properties or prevents the reasonable enjoyment of residential
uses.
Table 4:
Area Of Sign   Measuremen t
In Square Feet Distance
Area Of Sign   Measuremen t
In Square Feet Distance
10             32
15             39
20             45
25             50
30             55
35             59
40             63
45             67
50             71
55             74
60             77
65             81
70             84
75             87
80             89
85             92
90             95
95             97
100            100
110            105
120            110
130            114
140            118
150            122
160            126
170            130
180            134
190            138
200            141
220            148
240            155
260            161
280            167
300            172
 
   B.   Awning, canopy, incidental, projecting, roof, suspended, and wall signs
may not have electronic display faces.
   C.   Sandwich boards may not be illuminated or electrified in any way.
   D.   Sign illumination in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-O, and R-U residential
districts must be turned off after business hours.
   E.   Billboards with electronic message centers may not change their display
face faster than once every seven and one half (7.5) seconds.
   F.   On-premise signs with electronic message centers may not change their
display face faster than once every two (2) seconds.
   G.   Changes from one message to another shall be accomplished by the change
of all illumination elements on the face of a changing sign (electronic)
simultaneously, with the provision that the sign may fade or dissolve to
complete darkness and then re-illuminate with or fade-in to the new message. A
transition sequence must be completed in no more than two (2) seconds.
   H.   No on-premise electronic message center shall be erected or maintained
closer than one hundred fee (100') from any residential district, unless the
sign is constructed in such a manner that the sign cannot be seen from said
district.
   I.   An electronic message shall not scroll, travel, or flash.
   J.   Electronic message displays must have ambient light monitors that
automatically adjust their brightness and shall not exceed .3 footcandle above
ambient light when measured according to table 4. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Nonconforming signs are permitted to remain, subject to the following
exceptions and restrictions:
   A.   The abandonment of a nonconforming sign terminates the right to
maintain such sign.
   B.   A nonconforming sign may be continuously maintained or repaired in its
original form with materials compatible with the existing construction until
damaged or destroyed from any cause in excess of seventy percent (70%) of
replacement costs or until the sign becomes substandard structurally,
materially, or electrically from obsolescence or other cause, so as to pose a
hazard or endangerment to the public, and is not promptly repaired as ordered
by the sign administrator.
   C.   When a nonconforming sign is replaced or relocated, a sign permit must
be obtained, and the sign must then comply with this chapter.
   D.   A nonconforming sign may be altered only when the proposed alterations
bring the sign fully into conformance with the restrictions for the district in
which the sign is located.
   E.   A nonconforming sign shall cease to be used when the business,
activity, or use on which it is located is enlarged by more than fifty percent
(50%) of either the original lot area or the building area lot coverage in
place at the time the sign was installed. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-8: REMOVAL OF SIGNS:
Signs placed within the jurisdiction may be removed or cited for a violation in
accordance with §
11-1-13 for the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to comply with a written order of removal for a sign in
violation of this chapter. The sign owner shall be responsible for all costs
incurred by the city in connection with the removal and demolition of the sign
and may be subject to the penalties of §
11-1-13 until the sign is removed.
   B.   Signs found to be structurally, materially, or electrically defective
or in any way found to be a hazard or an endangerment to the public shall be
ordered repaired or removed by the owner within a time frame not to exceed a
maximum of thirty (30) calendar days, as established by the administrator based
upon the degree of hazard presented by the sign.
   C.   Signs abandoned by reason of a change of occupancy or vacation of the
building or use, shall be removed within ninety (90) calendar days by the sign
owner. Failure to remove shall subject the sign owner to the responsibility for
all costs incurred in removal or demolition of the sign by the jurisdiction and
may be subject to the penalties of §
11-1-13 until the sign is removed.
   D.   The administrator, in case of an emergency when a dangerous or
defective sign poses an immediate hazard, may cause the removal of the sign
without the standard notice. Following removal of the sign, the administrator
shall make available to the owner a statement of the work performed and a copy
of the costs of the removal for payment.
   E.   In the case of removal of a sign by the jurisdiction, all costs
incurred are the responsibility of the sign owner. If the costs for removal are
not paid by the owner of the sign within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt
of notice of those costs and attempt to serve notice of those costs, the amount
specified shall become an assessment or lien against the property.
   F.   Signs described in §
11-23-3C of this chapter erected on public property or rights of way without
prior approval shall be subject to immediate removal where and when possible,
by city personnel without obligation to notify the owner of said removal. (Ord.
3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-9: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Common Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   1 per lot, tract, or parcel held in common ownership.
         b.   In mixed-use residential (R-4, R-O, R-U), commercial (B-1, B-2,
B-3, CLM, M-I), PLI, and airport zones the bottom edge of the sign face must be
at least eight feet (8') above ground level or the standards for a monument
sign or suspended sign must be used.
         c.   Common signs must be used when applicable in place of
freestanding sign requirements.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
Table 1.
 
             ZONE
SIGN TYPE    R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2,     PLI         Airport
                                         CLM, M-I
                                         1 per lot,
                                         tract, or
                                         parcel held   1 per lot,  1 per lot,
                                         in common     tract, or   tract, or
             Total #: 1                  ownership.    parcel held parcel held
             Max Height:   Max Height:   Max Height:   in common   in common
Common Sign: 6'i           24'           30' (B-1)     ownership.  ownership.
             Max Area:     Max Area:     34' (B-2,     Max Height: Max Height:
             12sf          40sf          CLM, and M-I) 24'         24'
                                         Max Area:     Max Area:   Max Area:
                                         40sf (B-1)    120sf       120sf
                                         200sf (B-
                                         2 and CLM)
                                         300sf (M-I)
 
   B.   Freestanding Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   One sign is permitted per principal building.
         b.   In mixed-use residential (R-4, R-O, R-U), commercial (B-1, B-2,
B-3, CLM, M-I), PLI, and airport zones the bottom edge of the sign face must be
at least eight feet (8') above ground level or the standards for a monument
sign or suspended sign must be used.
      2.   Design Standards by Zoning District:
Table 1.
 
             ZONE
SIGN TYPE    R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2, CLM, PLI         Airport
                                         M-I
                                         Total #: 1
                                         Max Height:
             Total #: 1                  24' (B-1)      Total #: 1  Total #: 1
             Max Height:   Max Height:   34' (B-2, CLM  Max Height: Max Height:
Freestanding 6'            18'           and M-I)       18'         24'
Sign:        Max Area:     Max Area:     Max Area:      Max Area:   Max Area:
             12sf          32sf          32sf (B-1)     100sf       100sf
                                         150sf (B-2 and
                                         CLM)
                                         250sf (M-I)
 
   C.   Incidental Major Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Location and number as approved with a Planned Sign Program.
      2.   DESIGN STANDARDS BY ZONING DISTRICT:
         a.   Signs are limited to a max area of thirty-two (32) square feet
and eight (8) feet in height.
   D.   Incidental Minor Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   One per curb cut for property.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
         a.   Signs are limited to a max area of six (6) square feet and four
(4) feet in height.
   E.   Marquee, Awning And/Or Canopy Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   The R-1, R-2, and R-3 zoning districts are only allowed one (1)
awning sign up to six (6) square feet in size.
         b.   Marquee, awning, and canopy signs are only permitted on the
ground floor.
         c.   Marquee, awning, and canopy signs may not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the ground floor elevation of a building. Not to exceed the total
square footage allowed when aggregated with wall signage.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
         a.   Square footage of signs aggregated with wall signage requirements
where permitted.
   F.   Monument Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   One sign is permitted per principal building.
         b.   A monument sign is a freestanding sign and not an additional sign
type.
      4.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
         a.   A monument sign may be placed on a berm not exceeding two and
one-half feet (2½')above the adjacent street grade or surface beneath the sign,
whichever is less.
 
          ZONE
SIGN TYPE R-1, R-2, R-3 R-4, R-O, R-U B-1, B-2,     PLI         Airport
                                      CLM, M-I
                                      Total #: 1
                                      Max Height:
                        Total #: 1    6' (B-1)      Total #: 1
                        Max Height:   12' (B-2, CLM Max Height: Total #: 1
MONUMENT  NP            6'            and M-I)      12'         Max Height:
SIGN:                   Max Area:     Max Area:     Max Area:   12'
                        32sf          32sf (B-1)    20sf        Max Area: 20sf
                                      150sf (B-
                                      2 and CLM)
                                      250sf (M-I)
 
   G.   Projecting Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Projecting signs may not project more than six inches (6") above
the parapet on the façade they are installed upon.
         b.   Projecting signs shall not extend more than four feet (4')
measured at a right angle between the outer extremity of the sign and the wall
or structure to which it is attached or as limited by §
11-23-1D.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
         a.   Square footage of signs aggregated with wall signage requirements
where permitted.
   H.   Roof Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   A roof sign may be used in place of a primary wall sign where
permitted.
         b.   The sign shall appear to be free of any extra bracing, angle
iron, guy wires, cables, etc., and sign supports shall appear to be an
architectural feature and integral part of the building.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
         a.   Roof signs are calculated with and may not exceed wall signage
requirements where permitted.
         b.   The highest point of a roof sign may not exceed the max height of
the zoning district.
   I.   Wall Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Sign areas are given per building façade.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
Table 1.
 
      ZONE
SIGN  R-1,  R-4,  B-1, B-2,
TYPE  R-2,  R-O,  CLM, M-I                                        PLI   Airport
      R-3   R-U
WALL  Max   Max   Max Area: 15% of the building façade or sixty  Max   Max Area: 15% of the building façade or sixty 60sf, whichever is
SIGN: Area: Area: (60) square feet (per façade) , whichever is   Area: greater.
      40sf  40sf  greater.                                        100sf
 
   J.   Window Sign:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Window signs may be displayed on ground floor windows only.
         b.   Window signage occupying less than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the aggregated window area per building elevation or tenant occupied portion of
a building is exempt in commercial districts (B-1, B-2, CLM, M-I, PLI, and
Airport).
         c.   If window signage exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of the
aggregated window area per building elevation the total square footage of the
window signage is to be aggregated with and not to exceed the requirement of
wall signage.
      2.   Design Standards By Zoning District:
Table 1.
 
             ZONE
SIGN TYPE    R-1, R-2, R- R-4, R-O, R- B-1, B-2,    PLI           Airport
             3            U            CLM, M-I
                                       Aggregated   Aggregated    Aggregated
             1 window                  with wall    with wall     with wall
WINDOW SIGN: sign up to   Up to 25% of signage      signage       signage
             6sf.         the window   requirements requirements  requirements
                                       unless       unless exempt unless exempt
                                       exempt
(Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
11-23-10: PLANNED SIGN PROGRAM:
   A.   Intent: The intent of a Planned Sign Program is to ensure that all
signs are in harmony with other on-site signs, buildings, surrounding
developments and to reduce visual clutter. Sign programs are also intended to
provide a means of flexible application of sign regulations to encourage
maximum creativity in the design and display of signs.
   B.   Applicability: Any business or group of business uses on a parcel or
group of parcels greater than 2 acres with common access and parking.
   C.   Each new sign applied for under a Planned Sign Program shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee as described in §
11-23-1D3.
   D.   The Sign Administrator may approve a Planned Sign Program that follows
the applicable standards of this chapter and may grant the following deviations
to the chapter as outlined in this section:
      1.   The Sign Administrator may approve of incidental minor and major
signs.
      2.   The Sign Administrator may approve of an additional freestanding
sign where the subject property has an additional frontage, and an incidental
major sign would prove inadequate for wayfinding purposes.
      3.   The Sign Administrator may order the use of common sign(s) in place
of freestanding sign(s) where it will reduce visual clutter.
      4.   The Sign Administrator may increase allowable wall signage by no
more than twenty percent (25%) of wall signs so that they may match the largest
wall sign allowed on the premises where it will create uniformity and/or to
improve wayfinding.
      5.   The sign administrator shall consider the intent of the Planned Sign
Program in its evaluation of the application.
   E.   Appeals to the Sign Administrators determination on a Planned Sign
Program application are to be handled by the governing body. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-
2024)
11-23-11: OFF-PREMISES/BILLBOARD SIGNS: 
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all billboards located in the
City of Helena.
   B.   Purpose and intent: This section is enacted to provide more particular
and uniform standards for the location, spacing, height, lighting, and
regulation of billboards within the city. It is the intent of these regulations
to achieve the following:
      1.   Enhance the economic value of the landscape by avoiding visual
clutter;
      2.   Enhance the aesthetics and impression of the city as it conveyed to
tourists and visitors;
      3.   Acknowledge the economic value that advertising may bring to the
community;
      4.   Protect adjacent and/or nearby properties from the negative impact
of lighting, size, height and location of signs;
      5.   Encourage and enforce the removal of non-conforming off-premises
signs from scenic, cultural, and historic districts or corridors;
      6.   Bring the business of outdoor advertising in-line with business
permitting practices within the city.
   C.   Billboard business permit (BBP) required: Each sign face in the city is
considered a separate location where a commercial activity is engaged in (e.g.
advertising). All billboard sign faces must have one or more valid BBP(s) by
the 30th of January of the second calendar year after adoption (for example: if
this title is adopted anytime in 2024, the sign owner/operator would need their
valid billboard business permit(s) by 01/30/2026).
      1.   The owner/operator of a billboard face must have the required BBP to
display copy on the billboard face for which they have received compensation.
      2.   The total number of BBPs issued within city limits is fixed per the
following count on the date of the adoption of this title:
         a.   Each non-illuminated or externally illuminated billboard face
requires one (1) BBP.
         b.   Each electronic message center billboard face requires two (2)
BBPs.
      3.   BBPs shall be valid for the calendar year in which they are issued
and shall be renewed not later than January 30th of each calendar year.
      4.   It is a violation of this title for a company to receive
compensation for display copy on their sign faces without valid BBP(s).
      5.   No BBP shall be issued if the company requesting the BBP is known by
the Sign Administrator to be in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      6.   Any Billboard that does not have a BBP issued for it by January 30th
of any given calendar year shall be removed by the Owner within (90) days after
written notification from the Sign Administrator unless a renewal permit is
obtained within that ninety (90) day period.
      7.   Failure to renew the permit within the time guidelines as set forth
above is a violation of the code and will subject the Billboard owner and the
landowner to the following penalties in addition to the annual renewal fee
listed above:
         a.   One (1) to twenty-nine (29) days past due - one hundred dollars
($100) penalty;
         b.   Thirty (30) to fifty-nine (59) days past due - two hundred
dollars ($200) penalty;
         c.   Sixty (60) to eighty-nine (89) days past due - four hundred
dollars ($400) penalty;
         d.   Beyond 90 days - forced removal of sign per §
11-23-8-A.
      8.   The owner of a valid BBP or BBPs may renew the BBP(s) for two years
after the removal of their sign. If the BBPs are no longer associated with a
specific sign face the BBP(s) are forfeited.
      9.   The City Commission may choose to auction off or destroy a forfeited
BBP pending a public hearing.
   D.   No new off-premises/billboard signage pending removal of non-conforming
signs (cap and replace).
      1.   New billboards prohibited. No billboard sign shall be constructed or
erected in any district after the date of the enactment of this chapter.
      2.   Billboard replacement provisions: New billboard faces may be
constructed with valid BBP(s) once the face and structure that the BBP had
previously been associated with has been completely removed and the BBP has
been updated to reflect the new pending location.
   E.   Location standards for newly constructed billboards: All billboards
shall be located in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Billboard signs shall be permitted in the I-15 interstate highway
corridor as defined by Montana law. All billboard sign faces in the interstate
highway corridor must read to the interstate highway. Billboard signs are
permitted on properties zoned B-2, CLM, and M-I as follows:
         a.   Billboard signs located within the interstate corridor shall have
a maximum size of four hundred and thirty-two (432) square feet in area,
including border and trim but excluding base or apron, supports, and other
structural members.
         b.   Billboard signs may not exceed forty-eight feet (48') in length.
         c.   The maximum height of billboard signs, including the sign face,
shall be thirty feet (30') measured to the centerline of the interstate right
of way.
         d.   Minimum distance between non-illuminated or externally
illuminated billboard signs shall be five hundred feet (500').
         e.   Minimum distance between electronic message center billboard
signs shall be one thousand feet (1000').
      2.   Billboard signs shall be permitted in B-2, CLM and M-I districts
along routes covered by the Federal-aid primary system and the Highway
Beautification Act but not within the interstate corridor as follows:
         a.   Billboard signs shall be a maximum of three hundred (300) square
feet in area, including border and trim but excluding base or apron, supports,
and other structural members.
         b.   Billboard signs may not exceed twenty-four feet (24') in length.
         c.   The maximum height of billboard signs, including the sign face,
is thirty feet (30') (see §
11-23-2 Definitions: Height of Sign).
         d.   Minimum distance between billboard signs shall be a radius of
five hundred feet (500').
         e.   No billboard shall be placed within three hundred (300) feet of
the DT (downtown), TR (transitional residential), R-1 (residential), R-2
(residential), and R-3 (Residential) zone types.
   F.   Property standards.
      1.   Billboards shall be set back twenty (20) feet from any property
line.
      2.   No billboard shall be placed on the roof of any building or
structure.
   G.   Faces:
      1.   There shall be no more than a total of two (2) faces per supporting
structure.
      2.   All structures must be single face, back-to-back, or "v" type of
construction. Stacked faces are prohibited.
   H.   Pole construction:
      1.   All billboard signs shall be self-supporting structures erected upon
or permanently attached to concrete foundations.
      2.   Billboard signs shall be erected using single pole construction.
   I.   Preservation of viewsheds:
      1.   No billboard sign shall interrupt the view in either direction along
Helena Avenue.
      2.   Signs shall not cover or blanket any prominent view of a structure
or facade of historical or architectural significance.
      3.   The sign will not obstruct views of users of adjacent buildings to
side yards. This requirement does not include views of distant vistas.
   J.   Discontinuance. The city may order the removal of any billboard,
without compensation, upon which the advertising or other message has been
discontinued for more than sixty (60) continuous days. The owner shall either
advertise upon or remove the billboard within thirty (30) days of written
notification by the city. (Ord. 3323, 7-15-2024)
CHAPTER 24
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
11-24-1:   Intent
11-24-2:   Definitions
11-24-3:   General Landscaping
11-24-4:   Parking Lot Landscaping
11-24-5:   Screening
11-24-6:   General Landscaping And Parking Lot Landscaping Standards
11-24-7:   Site Plan Required
11-24-8:   Maintenance
11-24-9:   Nonconforming Landscaping
11-24-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to contribute to the relief of heat, noise, wind,
and glare through the proper placement of living plants and trees; providing
screening and mitigation of potential conflicts between commercial and
residential districts; encouraging water conservation, mitigating air
pollution, and enhancing the beauty of our community. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: B-1, B-2, B-3, CLM, M-I or PLI zoning districts.
   DEPARTMENT: City of Helena community development department.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-O zoning districts.
   TRACT: A lot or other legally defined parcel of property legally described
and the description recorded in the office of the county clerk and recorder, or
a combination of lots or parcels adjacent to each other, even though separated
by alley right of way, that are under a common ownership and used for a common
purpose. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-3: GENERAL LANDSCAPING:
   A.   The provisions of this section apply to tracts in all zoning districts
and to all uses except for tracts with only a single residential dwelling unit,
two (2) residential dwelling units, three (3) residential dwelling units, or
mobile home or recreational vehicle parks.
   B.   All areas of a tract that are not covered by buildings, parking lots,
utility poles and boxes, and walking or nonmotorized paths must be landscaped
as provided in section
11-24-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-4: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
For parking lots on tracts for which this chapter requires landscaping, the
minimum landscaping requirements are as follows:
   A.   All parking lots, whether gravel or other surface, must have at least
thirty (30) square feet of landscaping per vehicle parking space within the
boundaries of the parking lot.
   B.   Any edge of a parking space must be within thirty five feet (35') of
the trunk of a tree on the same tract or contiguous public rights of way.
   C.   All qualified trees on a tract may be used to satisfy subsection B of
this section, whether installed as general landscaping pursuant to section
11-24-3 of this chapter, screening pursuant to section
11-24-5 of this chapter, parking lot landscaping pursuant to this section,
boulevard or parkway landscaping pursuant to section
7-4-2 of this code, or any other required landscaping. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-5: SCREENING:
   A.   The side of a tract in a commercial district that is adjacent to a
residential district, except driveways, walkways, and approaches, must be
screened from that residential district. A commercial tract is considered
adjacent to a residential district even if it is separated by a public right of
way.
   B.   All parking lots on tracts adjacent to residential districts and for
which landscaping is required under this chapter must be screened from the
residential districts. A parking lot tract is considered adjacent to a
residential district even if it is separated by a public right of way.
   C.   Screening of a commercial tract or a parking lot from a residential
district may be by a fence, wall, or vegetation that is no less than three feet
(3') in height when planted. The screening must be designed and established so
that no less than seventy five percent (75%) of any thirty six (36) square foot
portion of the entire screening is opaque. Only the first six feet (6') in
height is used to determine the area of the screening. The opaqueness of
vegetation used as screening is measured as of its growth in July and after the
third full growing season. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-6: GENERAL LANDSCAPING AND PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   A.   Except as provided below, general landscaping and parking lot
landscaping must contain no less than sixty percent (60%) live vegetative cover
and include shrubs, bushes, or trees. If this live vegetative cover consists
entirely of plants that do not require supplemental water or irrigation once
established, or consists entirely of plants that are native to Lewis and Clark
County, then those areas may contain as little as fifty percent (50%) live
vegetative cover. The projected drip line of an average shrub, bush, or tree of
that species at five (5) years of age may be used in calculating minimum
vegetative coverage. The remainder of the area may be covered in inorganic
materials that are permeable to water.
   B.   When space permits, additional trees must be planted no more than
thirty feet (30') apart in landscape islands within the boundaries of the
parking lot that have planted trees to meet the requirement in subsection 11-
24-4B of this chapter. All trees must be expected to grow to at least twenty
feet (20') in height when mature. Deciduous trees must be no less than 1.5 inch
caliper at time of planting. Evergreen trees must be no less than five feet
(5') tall at time of planting.
   C.   Trees expected to grow to thirty feet (30') in height or less must be
planted in a tree plot of no less than twenty (20) square feet. Trees expected
to grow to more than thirty feet (30') in height must be planted in a tree plot
of no less than forty eight (48) square feet.
   D.   Trees within two feet (2') of any edge of a parking space must be
protected from damage by vehicles by barriers such as curb stops, tree guards,
rebar poles, or other types of vehicle obstructions. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-7: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
   A.   A site plan showing the general landscaping and parking lot landscaping
must be submitted for review and approval prior to constructing new buildings,
changing building size, installing new parking lots, or changing the size of
parking lots. The site plan must include the following:
      1.   Location of proposed general and parking lot landscaping drawn to
scale, which scale must be appropriate to the size of the project;
      2.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings,
project boundary lines, parking lots, roadways and rights of way, delineation
of sight distance triangles, walking and nonmotorized paths, and utility poles
and boxes;
      3.   Location, installed size, species, and quantity of proposed trees,
bushes, shrubs, or other vegetation, and organic and inorganic materials
proposed for use; and
      4.   Estimated date of completion of the installation of the general and
parking lot landscaping.
   B.   The approved general and parking lot landscaping plans may not be
changed or altered without review and approval by the community development
department. All general and parking lot landscaping shown on an approved plan
must be installed. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-8: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Landscaping must be maintained to sustain healthy trees, bushes,
shrubs, and other vegetation.
   B.   Any tree, bush, shrub, or other vegetation that is necessary to meet
the minimum requirements of this chapter that is dead, diseased, or severely
damaged must be removed and replaced with a comparable tree, bush, shrub, or
other vegetation. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
11-24-9: NONCONFORMING LANDSCAPING:
   A.   On the effective date of this chapter, any tract or use of a tract that
is nonconforming as to the amount and location of landscaping or trees required
under this chapter may be continued in the same manner as if it were
conforming.
   B.   If the size of a building is changed or reconstructed, the landscaping
requirements of this chapter apply to the entire tract.
   C.   If a parking lot is reconstructed or the size of a parking lot is
increased, the parking lot landscaping and tree requirements of this chapter
apply to the entire parking lot. (Ord. 3150, 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 25
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-25-1:   Intent
11-25-2:   Definition
11-25-3:   Application Requirements
11-25-4:   Review Procedures
11-25-5:   Minor Adjustments
11-25-6:   Major Adjustments
11-25-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to provide, through the conditional use process, a
tool to:
   A.   Encourage development of a variety of housing types and densities.
   B.   Create and/or preserve usable open space for recreational and aesthetic
enjoyment.
   C.   Preserve to the maximum extent possible the natural characteristics of
the land including topography, native vegetation and scenic views.
   D.   Avoid construction in physically unsuitable areas.
   E.   Encourage creativity in design, including flexibility in residential
siting to achieve energy conservation by optimum solar orientation.
   F.   Provide for maximum efficiency in the layout of street, utility
networks, and other public, private and semiprivate improvements.
   G.   Provide a guide for developers and for city officials who review and
approve developments subject to this chapter.
   H.   Provide for a mixing of land uses where enough land area is present to
design an integrated neighborhood consisting not only of various types and
densities of residences, but to include neighborhood related religious uses,
cultural or historical uses, recreational uses, educational uses and
neighborhood related commercial uses. (Ord. 2664, 3-29-1993)
11-25-2: DEFINITION:
A "planned unit development (PUD)" is an area of land, of at least two (2)
acres in size, owned by one or more landowners and developed as a single entity
under a plan which may provide a variety of land uses, housing types and
densities, and which provides design characteristics in addition to those
ordinarily allowed by right or condition in the district in which it is
located. The density in a PUD may exceed the density allowed by regulations for
the district in which it is located by twenty percent (20%). Overall unit
density shall be calculated based upon net land area remaining after required
park land and right of way have been provided. It is intended that each PUD
will be a separate development, having differing design characteristics for the
uses and improvements, based on the particular site situation. (Ord. 2664, 3-
29-1993)
11-25-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any person requesting approval of a planned unit development shall
submit an application for a conditional use permit, pursuant to this title, to
allow a PUD in the contemplated location. The application shall be made on
forms provided by the agency performing the city's planning and zoning
functions. Any required fee shall be paid at the time the application is
submitted.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by any site plan required by this
title and by a PUD plan. The information to be provided on any site plan
required by this title may be incorporated into the PUD plan. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-
2008)
   C.   At the time the application for conditional use permit/planned unit
development approval is submitted, the applicant shall also submit any
application for subdivision approval, and any preliminary plat, necessary under
the city's subdivision ordinance.
   D.   The PUD plan shall contain the following:
      1.   A vicinity map showing the location of the site in its relationship
to surrounding areas, including the existing land uses and zoning of both the
site and the surrounding area.
      2.   A map of the site, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch (1")
to one hundred feet (100'), showing the following:
         a.   Names and dimensions of streets bounding or touching the site,
including right of way, paved surface and any alleyways.
         b.   Pedestrian and vehicular circulation patterns within and around
the site, including sidewalks and walkways/bikeways.
         c.   Proposed location and height of building including identification
of types, density and number of dwelling units or uses in each structure.
         d.   General distances between buildings.
         e.   Off street parking facilities.
         f.   Locations, dimensions and area of common or public open space.
         g.   Proposed drainage patterns and any related drainage developments.
         h.   Existing and proposed topography at not less than five foot (5')
contour intervals when the slope exceeds five percent (5%) and not less than
two foot (2') contour intervals when the slope is less than five percent (5%).
         i.   Proposed routing of subterranean water lines, storm drains,
sanitary sewers, gas, electric, telephone and other utilities.
         j.   Such other physical features as existing streams, canals,
railroads, rights of way or easements which affect or are affected by the
proposed PUD.
         k.   A landscaping plan showing areas which are to be landscaped and
open areas which will be left in a natural state.
   E.   As part of the PUD plan, the applicant shall also submit a written
statement providing the following information:
      1.   A schedule showing the time when street and utility improvements
will be finally completed and installed, and the proposed method whereby
financing and installation of the same will be accomplished and guaranteed.
      2.   The proposed type or types of ownership upon completion of
development.
      3.   Proposed restrictive covenants, if any.
      4.   A statement of how the permanence and maintenance of any common open
space will be assured. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-25-4: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Subdivision review, as required by the city subdivision ordinance and
the Montana subdivision and platting act, and conditional use permit/PUD review
as required by this title, shall be held jointly and concurrently by the city's
planning board and zoning commission. The zoning commission shall act upon the
conditional use permit request. The planning board shall act upon the request
for subdivision approval in those cases where the proposed PUD contains a
subdivision of land. Notice of each hearing shall be given in the manner
provided for in this title for conditional use permit review and in the city's
subdivision ordinance and Montana subdivision and platting act for subdivision
review.
   B.   At the hearing on the application for a conditional use permit the
zoning commission shall consider, but shall not be limited to, the following
items: (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
      1.   The city's comprehensive plan and proposed land use of the area
contained in the plan.
      2.   The physical features of the land.
      3.   The existing land uses surrounding the proposed PUD.
      4.   The proposed land uses within the area of the proposed PUD, how they
will relate to adjoining properties and the general neighborhood, and their
compatibility with existing uses of said adjoining properties and general
neighborhood.
      5.   The proposed residential density and how it relates to adjoining
properties and the general neighborhood.
      6.   The existing and/or proposed public improvements in the area such as
schools, roads, parks and other such features.
      7.   The availability of public and semipublic utilities.
      8.   Responsible comments concerning the request by interested citizens.
(Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
      9.   Other matters set forth in this title.
   C.   After said public hearing and review, the zoning commission shall make
written recommendations to the city commission on the proposed project as
provided for in this title. If the planning board has reviewed a preliminary
plat for any proposed subdivision, it shall make recommendations as provided
for in the city's subdivision ordinance and the Montana subdivision and
platting act.
   D.   The city commission shall hold public hearings on the application for a
conditional use permit as prescribed in this title and shall hold public
hearings on any proposed subdivision as provided for in the city's subdivision
ordinance and the Montana subdivision and platting act. The notice of the
hearings shall be given in the manner provided in this title for conditional
use permit review and in the city's subdivision ordinance and the Montana
subdivision and platting act for subdivision review. The hearing on the
application for conditional use permit/PUD approval shall be held concurrently
with the hearing on any proposed subdivision which is part of the proposal.
After such hearing, or hearings, the city commission may accept, modify or
reject the recommendations of the zoning commission and the planning board, as
set forth in this title and in the city's subdivision ordinance and the Montana
subdivision and platting act. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-25-5: MINOR ADJUSTMENTS:
Minor adjustments to an approved PUD plan may be made and approved, by the
agency conducting the city's planning and zoning functions, at the time a
building permit is issued by the building department. Minor adjustments are
those changes which may affect the precise dimension of buildings and the
siting of buildings, but which do not affect the basic character, use or
arrangement of buildings, or the basic design, density or open space
requirements of the development. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-25-6: MAJOR ADJUSTMENTS:
Major adjustments are those which substantially alter the basic character, use
or arrangement of buildings, or the basic design, density or open space
requirements of the development. When, in the opinion of the agency conducting
the city's planning and zoning functions, any proposed change or adjustment
constitutes a major adjustment, no building permit shall be issued without a
review of an amended PUD plan by the planning board and review and approval of
the same by the city commission. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
CHAPTER 26
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
11-26-1:   Intent
11-26-2:   Location
11-26-3:   Development Standards
11-26-4:   Permit
11-26-5:   Certain Land Uses Prohibited As Home Occupations
11-26-1: INTENT:
The City of Helena's adopted growth policy recognizes the benefits to the
community of allowing "home occupations" within residential neighborhoods,
subject to specified limitations which render such occupations compatible with
residential uses. The City hereby intends to further such purposes of said
growth policy and to promote the public health, welfare and safety by means of
this chapter. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
11-26-2: LOCATION:
Home occupations are a permitted use in all districts and zones established by
or described in this title. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-26-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
In addition to all other applicable provisions of this title, home occupations
shall also be subject to the following:
   A.   Entrance to the space used for the home occupation shall be from within
the residence or accessory buildings except when otherwise required by law or
other applicable ordinance of the City.
   B.   No materials, equipment or articles shall be used, nor shall any
activity be conducted, which will be detrimental to the residential use of the
residence in which a home occupation is conducted or to surrounding residences,
because of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, interference with radio or
television reception, interference with parking at or in front of surrounding
residences, or because of any factor which might be reasonably expected to
endanger life, health, physical safety or property.
   C.   A home occupation, including all necessary storage space utilized in
conjunction with it, shall not occupy more than forty nine percent (49%) of the
total habitable floor area of the residence plus one hundred percent (100%) of
accessory buildings located on the premises. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
   D.   Only those persons who reside in the residence shall be engaged in any
home occupation located in that residence or accessory buildings on the
premises. (Ord. 2442, 6-1-1987)
   E.   Materials, merchandise, commodities or products shall not be delivered
to or transported from the residence or accessory buildings in such bulk or
quantity as to require delivery or transportation by a commercial motor carrier
other than the United States Postal Service, United Parcel Service, or similar
carrier. The parking of customers' automobiles shall not occur in a manner or
frequency causing disturbance or inconvenience to nearby residents, or so as to
necessitate a parking lot for such customers. Any delivery, transportation,
parking, or related activity, in any manner contrary to the foregoing, shall be
prima facie evidence that the use is a primary business and not a home
occupation. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
   F.   Parking shall be provided for each residence used for a home occupation
consistent with the applicable residential provisions of
chapter 22 of this title. In the event the residential parking is nonconforming
in the number of on site and/or paved parking spaces that can be provided, the
home occupation permit previously issued may be revoked at the discretion of
the Director of Building and Safety upon finding that any significant adverse
impact to the neighborhood results from the lack of compliance with the parking
requirement of this title. (Ord. 2686, 8-30-1993)
   G.   There shall be no window display of materials, merchandise,
commodities, or products, nor shall samples of the same be displayed outside
the residence, in regard to any home occupation conducted there.
   H.   Any signs placed upon the premises where a home occupation is conducted
shall comply with the provisions of
chapter 23 of this title. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-26-4: PERMIT:
Any home occupation shall comply with business license requirements for the
City of Helena. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-26-5: CERTAIN LAND USES PROHIBITED AS HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The following uses are prohibited as home occupations:
   A.   Medical marijuana dispensaries.
   B.   Medical marijuana grow operations. (Ord. 3255, 5-20-2019)
CHAPTER 27
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 28
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 29
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 30
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 31
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 32
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 33
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 34
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 35
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-35-1:   Definitions
11-35-2:   Zones
11-35-3:   Height Limitations And Exceptions
11-35-4:   Use Restrictions
11-35-5:   Nonconforming Uses
11-35-6:   Permits
11-35-7:   Variances
11-35-8:   Issuance Subject To Conditions
11-35-9:   Enforcement
11-35-10:   Airport Board Of Adjustment
11-35-11:   Appeals
11-35-12:   Judicial Review
11-35-13:   Conflicting Regulations
11-35-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are applicable:
   AIRPORT: The Helena airport.
   AIRPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board consisting of five (5) members
appointed by the Helena city commission and Lewis and Clark County
commissioners as provided in section 1-718 and 11-2707, Revised Codes of
Montana, 1947.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area.
   AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the air
space required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
   HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limitations in all zones
established by this chapter and shown on the Helena airport zoning map, the
datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, tree, natural growth or use of
land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or amendment
thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having or planned an instrument
approach procedure utilizing area type navigation equipment for a straight in,
nonprecision instrument approach.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway equipped or to be equipped with a
precision electronic navigation aid or landing aid or other air navigation
facilities, suitable to permit the landing of aircraft by an instrument
approach under restricted visibility conditions.
   RUNWAY: The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
   STRUCTURE: An object or structure constructed or installed by man,
including, but not limited to, buildings, towers, smoke stacks, and overhead
transmission lines.
   TREE: Any vegetation or other naturally growing object.
   UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds
maximum gross weight or less. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-2: ZONES:
There are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying within the precision instrument approach zones, utility approach
zones, transition zones, horizontal zone and conical zone. Such areas and zones
are shown on Helena airport zoning map consisting of one sheet prepared by the
joint city-county airport board, a copy of which is made a part hereof by
reference. The various zones are defined and described as follows:
   A.   Precision Instrument Approach Zone: A precision instrument approach
zone is established at each end of the precision instrument runway for
precision instrument landings and takeoffs. Each precision instrument approach
zone shall have a width of one thousand feet (1,000') at a distance of two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000') at a distance of fifty
thousand two hundred feet (50,200') beyond each end of the runway, with its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   B.   Utility Approach Zone: A utility approach zone is established at each
end of all utility runways for visual landings and takeoffs. Each utility
approach zone shall have a width of two hundred fifty feet (250') at a distance
of two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of the runway, widening thereafter
uniformly to a width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a
distance of five thousand two hundred feet (5,200') beyond each end of the
runway with its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the
runway.
   C.   Transition Zones: Transition zones are hereby established adjacent to
each precision instrument and utility runway and approach zones as indicated on
the zoning map. Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of
runways have variable widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones
extend outward from a line one hundred twenty five feet (125') on either side
of the centerline of the utility runway, for the length of such runway plus two
hundred feet (200') on each end, and five hundred feet (500') on either side of
the centerline of the precision instrument runway, for the length of such
runway plus two hundred feet (200') on each end, and are parallel and level
with such runway centerlines. The transition zones along such runways slope
upward and outward one foot (1') vertically for each seven feet (7')
horizontally to the point where they intersect the surface of the horizontal
zone. Further, transition zones are established adjacent to both precision
instrument and utility approach zones for the entire length of the approach
zones. These transition zones have variable widths, as shown on the zoning map.
Such transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of the runway
approach zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the
rate of one foot (1') vertically for each seven feet (7') horizontally to the
points where they intersect the surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
Additionally, transition zones are established adjacent to the precision
instrument approach zone where it projects through and beyond the limits of the
conical zone, extending a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured
horizontally from the edge of the precision instrument approach zones at right
angles to the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   D.   Horizontal Zone: A horizontal zone is hereby established as the area
within a perimeter established by swinging arcs of ten thousand feet (10,000')
radius from a point two hundred feet (200') beyond the planned ends of the
precision instrument runway on the continuation of the runway centerline and
connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal
zone does not include the precision instrument and utility approach zones and
the transition zones.
   E.   Conical Zone: A conical zone is hereby established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). The conical zone does not
include the precision instrument approach zones and transition zones. (Ord.
2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-3: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created
by this chapter to a height in excess of the height limitation established for
such zone. Such height limitations are established for each of the zones as
follows:
      1.   Precision Instrument Approach Zone: One foot (1') in height for each
fifty feet (50') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet
(200') from and at the centerline elevation of the planned end of the precision
instrument runway and extending to a distance of ten thousand two hundred feet
(10,200') from the end of the runway; thence one foot (1') in height for each
forty feet (40') in horizontal distance to a point fifty thousand two hundred
feet (50,200') from the planned end of the runway.
      2.   Utility Approach Zones: One foot (1') in height for each twenty feet
(20') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet (200') from
and at the centerline elevation of the planned end of the utility runway and
extending to a point five thousand two hundred feet (5,200') from the planned
end of the runway.
      3.   Transition Zones: One foot (1') in height for each seven feet (7')
in horizontal distance beginning at any point one hundred twenty five feet
(125') normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of utility runways,
extending two hundred feet (200') beyond each end thereof, and five hundred
feet (500') normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of the precision
instrument runway, extending two hundred feet (200') beyond each end thereof,
extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation which is three thousand eight hundred seventy three feet (3,873')
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing there are established height
limits of one foot (1') vertical height for each seven feet (7') horizontal
distance measured from the edges of all approach zones for the entire length of
the approach zones and extending upward and outward to the points where they
intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces. Further where the precision
instrument approach zone projects through and beyond the conical zone, a height
limit of one foot (1') for each seven feet (7') of horizontal distance shall be
maintained beginning at the edge of the instrument approach zone measured
normal to the centerline of the runway extended.
      4.   Horizontal Zone: One hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation or a height of four thousand twenty three feet (4,023') above mean
sea level.
      5.   Conical Zone: One foot (1') in height for each twenty feet (20') of
horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone,
extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet (350') above the airport
elevation.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the growth,
construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to fifty
feet (50') above the surface of the land. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use may be made of land
within any zone established by this chapter in such manner as to create
electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for operators or aircraft to distinguish between
airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of operators of aircraft
using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise endanger the landing, taking off, maneuvering, or operating of
aircraft. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of February 5, 1973, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of any use which was nonconforming as of such
date. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to February 5, 1973, and was diligently
prosecuted, except as hereinafter provided in regard to hazard marking and
lighting.
   B.   Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, the owner of
any nonconforming structure or tree shall permit the installation, operation,
and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary
by the joint city-county airport board to indicate, to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such airport hazards.
Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the
expense of the joint city- county airport board.
   C.   Whenever a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned, or has
been torn down, physically deteriorated, decayed, damaged or otherwise
destroyed, to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement
cost at the time of such occurrence, such structure or tree shall not be
reconstructed, repaired or replaced in a manner exceeding any applicable height
limitation or otherwise deviating from the provisions of this chapter, and no
permit allowing the same shall be issued hereunder without the prior granting
of a variance. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-6: PERMITS:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, no material
change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall be
erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone created under,
by or pursuant to this chapter unless a permit therefor has been first applied
for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for
which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit a
determination of whether the resulting use, structure or tree will conform to
the requirements of this chapter. If such determination is in the affirmative,
the permit shall be granted.
   B.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') high, except when, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height
limitation prescribed for such zone.
   C.   In the areas lying within the limits of the precision instrument and
utility approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than four
thousand two hundred feet (4,200') from each end of the runways, no permit
shall be required for any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75')
high, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height
limitations prescribed for such instrument or noninstrument approach zone.
   D.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the
perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') high, except when, because of
terrain, land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would
extend above the height limitations prescribed for such transition zones.
   E.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing provisions shall be construed
as permitting any construction, alteration or growth of any structure or tree
in excess of any of the height limitations established by section
11-35-3 of this chapter, subject to the exception contained therein.
   F.   No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree
to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than
it was on February 5, 1973, or than it is when the application for a permit is
made. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation
of any use or structure which does not comply with Montana state air pollution
standards. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be
granted. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-7: VARIANCES:
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or to
permit the growth of any tree, or to use his property, in a manner not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, may apply to the airport board
of adjustment for a variance from such provisions. Such a variance shall be
granted where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
that the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will
do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
(Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-8: ISSUANCE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS:
If such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, any permit or variance granted may be
so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to operators of aircraft the presence of an airport
hazard. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The director of building and safety is hereby designated and charged with the
duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter. The duties
of the director of building and safety shall include that of hearing and
deciding all permits under the applicable section, but the director of building
and safety shall not have or exercise any of the powers or duties delegated to
the airport board of adjustment. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-10: AIRPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   There is hereby created, under sections 67-6-206 and 76-2-321 through
76-2-328, Montana Code Annotated, an airport board of adjustment which shall
possess and exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the joint city-county airport board in the enforcement of
this chapter.
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the provisions of this
chapter upon which said airport board of adjustment under such provisions may
be required to pass.
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   The airport board of adjustment shall consist of five (5) members,
three (3) members appointed by the Lewis and Clark County commission and two
(2) members appointed by the Helena city commission. Each member shall serve
for a term of three (3) years and until a successor is duly appointed and
qualified. Members may only be removed by the appointing authority for cause
upon written charges after a public hearing. No member of the airport board of
adjustment shall be a member of the joint city-county airport board.
   C.   The airport board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance
and procedure consistent with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the
airport board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at
such other times as the airport board of adjustment may determine. The
chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
members of the airport board of adjustment shall be present at variance
hearings. All hearings of the airport board of adjustment shall be public. The
airport board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
   D.   The airport board of adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law, giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts, in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the airport board of
adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the joint city- county airport board, or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to grant any variance from the provisions or requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
joint city-county airport board made in the administration of this chapter, may
appeal to the airport board of adjustment.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time, as
provided by the rules of the airport board of adjustment, by filing with said
board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The airport board of
adjustment shall, within a reasonable time, hear said appeal. The board shall
give public notice of each such hearing, provide due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear personally or by agent or attorney.
   C.   The airport board of adjustment may modify, reverse or affirm, in whole
or in part, the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
may make such order, requirement decision, or determination as may be
appropriate under the circumstances. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-12: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the airport
board of adjustment, may appeal to the district court as provided in section
67-6-206 and 76-2-327, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-35-13: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where an area or location is subject to more than one height limitation under
this chapter, or where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations
or limitations prescribed by this chapter any other regulations applicable to
the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures
or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent or
restrictive limitation or requirement shall govern. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
CHAPTER 36
AIRPORT NOISE INFLUENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-36-1:   Intent
11-36-2:   Noise Influence Area
11-36-3:   Prohibited Uses
11-36-4:   Nonconforming Uses
11-36-5:   Permits
11-36-6:   Enforcement
11-36-7:   Appeals
11-36-8:   Judicial Review
11-36-9:   Conflicting Regulations
11-36-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to overlay any other zoning districts and regulations
comprising or pertaining to areas to which it is applicable, so as to prevent
undue negative impacts from aviation activities occurring at the Helena
airport. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-2: NOISE INFLUENCE AREA:
In order to effectuate the intent and provisions of this chapter, there is
hereby created and established the airport noise influence district. This
district is shown on the official zoning map for the city of Helena, and its
boundaries have been defined by ordinance. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-3: PROHIBITED USES:
In addition to those uses prohibited in those other districts overlain by this
district, the following uses are also prohibited in this district:
   A.   Hospitals, convalescent homes and related health care facilities which
provide either permanent or temporary housing of patients.
   B.   Multi-family rental housing intended primarily for the elderly.
   C.   Schools, except schools directly associated with the permitted land
uses (such as the airport vocational technical center).
   D.   Libraries, except those directly associated with permitted schools.
   E.   Theaters and other indoor or outdoor facilities for the performing
arts. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to require the removal or
alteration of any structure not conforming to these provisions as of October
26, 1981, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use
in existence on said date. Nothing herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to such adoption and was diligently
pursued. Further, any such nonconforming use may be reconstructed not to exceed
its original size following its total or partial destruction. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-
1985)
11-36-5: PERMITS:
   A.   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no material change
shall be made in the use of land and no structure shall be erected, altered or
otherwise established, unless a permit therefor is first applied for and
granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to allow a determination as to
whether the resulting use or structure would conform to the provisions of this
chapter. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
   B.   Whenever the joint city-county airport board determines that a
nonconforming structure has been vacated or abandoned for more than three
hundred sixty five (365) days or is more than fifty percent (50%) torn down,
physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow
such structure to be in violation of the land use regulations established in
this chapter, except as provided in section
11-36-4 of this chapter. In addition, no existing structure shall be
substantially altered so as to violate such regulations.
   C.   Any person desiring to erect any structure or use property not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, may apply to the airport board
of adjustment for a variance. A variance shall be granted where said board
finds, after hearing, that a literal application or enforcement of this chapter
would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and that the
relief requested would not be contrary to the public interest or safety, but
would do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of the
regulations established by this chapter.
   D.   If such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter, the airport board of adjustment or joint city-county airport board may
condition the granting of any permit or variance upon such conditions which it
deems appropriate and reasonable. The Lewis and Clark County special zoning
district enforcement officer and the city of Helena department of building and
safety shall provide staff input to the joint city-county airport board and the
airport board of adjustment. In this capacity, said officer and department
shall conduct all necessary investigations, prepare staff reports and provide
testimony for hearings in regard to all requests for permits or variances
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The joint city-county airport board or its designated agents shall
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Said board shall hear
all applications for permits, but it shall not exercise any of the powers or
duties delegated to the airport board of adjustment. The joint city- county
airport board may authorize the Helena department of building and safety and/or
the Lewis and Clark County special zoning district enforcement officer to issue
the permits required under this chapter.
   B.   The airport board of adjustment, pursuant to the regulations prescribed
by this chapter, shall:
      1.   Hear and decide all appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the joint city-county airport board in the enforcement of
this chapter.
      2.   Hear and decide special exceptions to the provisions of this chapter
upon which said airport board of adjustment may be required to pass.
   C.   In regard to all such matters, said airport board of adjustment shall
be governed by the procedures and substantive regulations set forth for said
board in chapter 35 of this title, including, but not limited to, those
pertaining to the conduct of hearings, the provision of notice, and the
granting of variances. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
joint city-county airport board, made in the administrations of this chapter
may appeal to the airport board of adjustment.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time, as
provided by the rules of the airport board of adjustment, by filing with said
board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The airport board of
adjustment shall, within a reasonable time, hear said appeal.
The board shall give public notice of each said hearing, provide due notice to
the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear personally or by agent or attorney.
   C.   The airport board of adjustment may modify, reverse or confirm in whole
or in part, the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as may be
appropriate under the circumstances. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
11-36-8: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the airport
board of adjustment may appeal to the Lewis and Clark County district court, as
provided in sections 67-6-206 and 76-2-237, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 2359,
5-20-1985)
11-36-9: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any
other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict is in
regard to the use of land or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern. (Ord. 2359, 5-20-1985)
CHAPTER 37
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 38
DAYCARE FACILITY
SECTION:
11-38-1:   Intent
11-38-2:   Definitions
11-38-3:   Standards
11-38-1: INTENT:
   A.   This chapter is intended to address a need for supplemental care for
less than twenty four (24) hours and to increase the quantity and accessibility
of daycare for dependent populations, including children, the elderly and the
handicapped, throughout all areas of the city.
   B.   Affordable, quality licensed supplemental care, including childcare
within the city, affects the well being of parents and children and the
economic productivity of the workplace.
   C.   Affordable, quality licensed supplemental care, including eldercare and
care for the handicapped, also affects the well being of the recipients and
other family members, and their economic productivity in the workplace.
   D.   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the recipients of supplemental care; to encourage the use of
underutilized buildings and properties; to promote the establishment of
licensed supplemental care facilities on employment sites; and to facilitate
the establishment of supplemental care facilities while maintaining the
compatibility with existing development and retaining the character of the
neighboring area. (Ord. 2629, 1-27-1992)
   E.   Before and after school care for school age children is considered to
be a continuation of the school day and is not considered to be daycare for
purposes of this chapter, and does not require a conditional use permit. (Ord.
2653, 12-7-1992)
11-38-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are applicable:
 
DAYCARE CENTER:    A place in which supplemental care is provided on a regular
                   basis for sixteen (16) or more persons.
                   A place registered or licensed by an agency of the State of
                   Montana that provides supplemental care on a regular basis,
DAYCARE FACILITY:  operated by a public or private entity, including, but not
                   limited to, the following: preschools, kindergartens,
                   nursery schools, daycare homes, daycare centers, day
                   nurseries, adult daycare, and childcare centers.
                   A private residence or other structure in which supplemental
                   care is provided on a regular basis for up to fifteen (15)
DAYCARE HOME:      persons; this number does not include any overlap care as
                   permitted by the State of Montana. These include facilities
                   defined as family daycare homes and group daycare homes as
                   contemplated in 52-2-703, Montana Code Annotated.
                   Care provided at a daycare facility for children aged three
                   (3) and older for the times before and after school for a
OVERLAP CARE:      designated period of time not to exceed three (3) hours when
                   the number of children in care may exceed the number of
                   children registered for care by the State of Montana.
                   The provision by an adult of food, shelter, care,
                   supervision, and/or learning experiences for one or more
                   persons on a supplemental basis outside of the care
SUPPLEMENTAL CARE: receiver's home, by an adult other than a parent, on a
                   regular basis for daily periods of less than twenty four
                   (24) hours. (Ord. 2629, 1-27-1992; amd. Ord. 2856, 10-19-
                   1998; Ord. 3305, 11-21-2022)
 
11-38-3: STANDARDS:
Development standards, prior to locating daycare homes and daycare centers in
churches and schools in all zoning districts by right, are as follows:
   A.   Daycare homes (up to fifteen (15) persons) and daycare centers (16 or
more persons) shall comply with all of the following development standards
(subsections B1 through B7 of this section) to be permitted by right in
churches and schools in any zoning district. New construction or expansion of
churches and schools that may include daycare homes or daycare centers shall
comply with all applicable zoning requirements of that district.
   B.   Any daycare home or daycare center located within a church or school
that does not comply with all of the following development standards
(subsections B1 through B7 of this section) shall be required to obtain a
conditional use permit, including the payment of applicable fees. However, a
CUP shall not be issued for daycare homes or daycare centers that do not comply
with life/safety development standards such as the uniform building code and
uniform fire code requirements.
      1.   Compliance with all registration and/or licensing requirements of
the State of Montana;
      2.   All daycare facilities shall comply with the child indoor/outdoor
space requirements as specified by the state;
      3.   Five foot (5') high fencing shall be installed around the outdoor
play area (if provided on site). Screening shall be installed around the
outdoor play area to provide a noise buffer when abutting a residential use;
      4.   Conformance with the uniform fire code and uniform building code
requirements, including, but not limited to, required exits, smoke alarms and
fire extinguishers;
      5.   Well lighted building entrances to provide greater safety for the
daycare clients in the early morning and evening hours during the winter.
Lighting shall not be directed or reflected upon any adjacent property;
      6.   All improvements shall be installed or be financially guaranteed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection 11-21-3G of this title prior to
issuance of an occupancy permit:
         a.   Screening and fencing for the outdoor play area (if applicable);
         b.   Uniform fire code and uniform building code requirements,
including required exits, smoke alarms and fire extinguishers; and
         c.   On site paved parking spaces and client drop off/pick up area.
      7.   The care provider shall obtain a city business license and an
occupancy permit prior to operation. (Ord. 2856, 10-19-1998; amd. Ord. 2629, 1-
27-1992; Ord. 3305, 11-21-2022)
CHAPTER 39
RESERVED
(Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 40
ESTABLISHMENT OF AREAS THAT ALLOW THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CASINOS
WITHIN CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
11-40-1:   Intent
11-40-2:   Definitions
11-40-3:   Locations Of Licensed Premises And Casinos
11-40-4:   Exemptions
11-40-5:   Conditional Use
11-40-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to:
   A.   Identify safe and appropriate locations for establishments selling
alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption near public school property;
   B.   Identify safe and appropriate locations for casinos; and
   C.   Protect and enhance safety of public school students and property near
such establishments. (Ord. 2868, 2-22-1999)
11-40-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   CASINO: An establishment licensed for on premises consumption of alcoholic
beverages which:
   A.   Is licensed for and has six (6) or more video gaming machines or
gambling devices; or
   B. Is licensed for and used to conduct any of the following types of
gambling: calcutta pools, live card games, live card game tournaments, and live
keno.
   EXISTING CASINO: Licensed premises that previously had a gambling operator's
license and operated as a casino or which had a pending application before the
Montana department of justice prior to April 1, 1999, for a gambling operator's
license for a casino use.
   EXISTING LICENSED PREMISES: Licensed premises that were licensed, or which
had a pending application before the Montana department of revenue, for the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption prior to the
enactment of this chapter and which have continuously operated under said
licenses.
   LICENSED PREMISES: Establishments licensed by the state of Montana for the
retail sale of any alcoholic beverage for on premises consumption. This does
not include premises upon which any alcoholic beverage is catered and sold for
on premises consumption to persons attending a special event.
   SCHOOL PROPERTY: Property owned, leased or exclusively possessed by a public
school district that is used for educational purposes or school sanctioned
activities for primary and secondary education students. This includes school
buildings and adjacent land, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, and other
places used by primary and secondary education students for educational
purposes or school sponsored events. It does not include property owned by
commercially operated or postsecondary schools or school district property that
is not regularly occupied or used by students for school activities. (Ord.
2799, 7-14-1997; amd. Ord. 2868, 2-22-1999)
11-40-3: LOCATIONS OF LICENSED PREMISES AND CASINOS:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority granted under section 16-3-309, Montana Code
Annotated, the following are areas where alcoholic beverages may not be sold at
retail for on premises consumption:
      1.   In any zoning district that does not allow licensed premises as
either a permitted or conditional use under this title;
      2.   An area restricted by section 16-3-306, Montana Code Annotated, as
amended;
      3.   An area located within six hundred feet (600') straight line
distance from the closest exterior edge of a licensed premises to the closest
boundary of school property, except as permitted by this chapter (Ord. 2868, 2-
22-1999); and
      4.   An area located within six hundred (600) feet straight line distance
from the closest exterior edge of a licensed premises to the nearest entrance
of a church, synagogue, or other place of worship located on the same street as
the licensed premises.
   B.   Pursuant to the authority granted under sections 16-3-309 and 23-5-171,
Montana Code Annotated, casinos are only allowed by conditional use permit in
those districts shown in section
 11-2-3, table 1 of this title and are subject to subsection A of this section.
A casino may not be located within three hundred feet (300') of any R-1, R-2,
R-3, R-4 or R-O zoning district measured in a straight line distance from the
closest exterior edge of the licensed premises to the closest boundary of the
applicable residential zoning district. (Ord. 3104, 11-3-2008; amd. Ord. 3319,
5-6-2024)
11-40-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The location prohibition defined in subsection
11-40-3A3 and
11-40-3A4 of this chapter does not apply to:
      1.   An existing licensed premises. Exempted existing licensed premises
are not subject to the provisions of chapter 6 of this title as nonconforming
uses.
      2.   A licensed premises that is in a location allowed by this chapter,
but which subsequently becomes prohibited solely because of the acquisition,
creation or expansion of school property or of a church, synagogue, or other
place of worship.
      3.   A licensed premises located within the DT (Downtown) and the TR
(Transitional Residential) zoning districts.
   B.   The location prohibition defined in subsection
11-40-3B of this chapter does not apply to an existing casino. Exempted
existing casinos are not subject to the provisions of
chapter 6 of this title as nonconforming uses. If the structure housing an
existing casino becomes damaged or destroyed by any cause, the structure may be
replaced or reconstructed. An existing gambling operation may change the type
and quantity of gambling activity without the requirement of a conditional use
permit for that change. (Ord. 3097, 4-7-2008; amd. Ord. 3319, 5-6-2024)
11-40-5: CONDITIONAL USE:
Licensed premises that are not permitted in a location because of subsection
11-40-3A3 of this chapter may be permitted as a conditional use in accordance
with the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title, provided the use is otherwise permitted by this zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 3149, 12-19-2011)
CHAPTER 41
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-41-1:   Application
11-41-2:   Standards
11-41-1: APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all structures that are located
within the wildland-urban interface district.
   B.   The wildland-urban interface district encompasses the corporate limits
of the city of Helena and overlays all other zoning districts established by
this title. The requirements of this chapter are in addition to those of other
zoning districts in which structures are located. (Ord. 3093, 1-28-2008)
11-41-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Structures located within the wildland-urban interface district may not
have exposed, wooden roofing materials, whether treated or untreated, and must
have noncombustible or fire resistant roofing materials that are rated class C
or higher in accordance with ANSI/UL 790 or ASTM E 108 or any equivalent test.
   B.   Existing roofs that undergo renovation, alteration, or repairs that
involve more than ten percent (10%) of the square footage of the affected roof
plane must meet the requirements of this chapter. If the renovation,
alteration, or repair involves more than fifty percent (50%) of the square
footage of the area of the entire roof, then the entire roof must comply with
the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   All vents in roofs, chimneys, gables, and eaves must be screened with
openings no larger than one-fourth inch (1/4") in size. (Ord. 3093, 1-28-2008)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1:   Title
12-1-2:   Purpose Of The Subdivision Review Process
12-1-3:   Authority
12-1-4:   Jurisdiction
12-1-5:   Relationship To Zoning
12-1-6:   Lands Unsuitable For Subdivision Development
12-1-7:   Subdivisions For Building Purposes Prohibited
12-1-8:   Definitions
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CITY OF HELENA SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2913, 8-13-2001)
12-1-2: PURPOSE OF THE SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   The purpose of this title is to establish a subdivision review process
that is designed to achieve the objectives of the Montana Subdivision and
Platting Act, title 76, chapter 3, Montana Code Annotated. The process of
dividing land into parcels is a necessary and important function in the growth
of a community. When, where, and how development occurs establishes land
division patterns for the community that will last for generations. The
subdivision review process allows the community to take a close look at
proposed developments before final action by the Governing Body. Subdivision
reviews should be guided by the City growth policy. (Ord. 3164, 9-23-2013)
   B.   The subdivision review process is also designed to:
      1.   Provide a forum for developers, citizens and City officials to
jointly identify and resolve issues related to proposed subdivisions;
      2.   Promote agreement among the applicant, City staff and the City
Commission on proposed subdivisions;
      3.   Generate information that allows City officials to make informed
decisions on subdivision applications;
      4.   Allow developers, citizens and City officials adequate time to
review information and to identify and resolve issues;
      5.   Have subdivisions reviewed in a timely and cost efficient manner;
and
      6.   Have subdivisions comply with existing State laws and local
ordinances. (Ord. 2913, 8-13-2001)
12-1-3: AUTHORITY:
The Community Development Department, and the Planning Board if applicable, is
charged with the duty of making investigations of all proposed plats,
subdivisions and certificates of survey and is directed to make recommendations
to the Governing Body for approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
proposed divisions of land coming before the City Commission. Authorization for
this title is contained in the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act, title 76,
chapter 3, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 3244, 10-29-2018)
12-1-4: JURISDICTION:
The title contained herein shall apply within the City and all areas under its
jurisdiction. Where at variance with other regulations or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. 2913, 8-13-2001)
12-1-5: RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING:
Newly subdivided or replatted lands must conform to the requirements and
provisions of the underlying zone as provided in the zoning ordinance, title 11
of this Code, as amended. This title shall apply to any and all areas under the
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. 3164, 9-23-2013)
12-1-6: LANDS UNSUITABLE FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT:
The following areas, due to natural or human caused hazards, are unsuitable for
subdivision development and may not be subdivided unless the hazards can be
eliminated or overcome by approved construction techniques or other mitigation
measures authorized by State law:
   A.   Areas subject to flooding or that have high groundwater.
   B.   Areas that have geological hazards, such as rockslides, faults, cliffs,
and landslides.
   C.   High fire risk areas.
   D.   Subsidence associated with tunnels or mineshafts.
   E.   Areas with high voltage power lines or high pressure gas lines.
   F.   Areas containing toxic or hazardous waste. (Ord. 3164, 9-23-2013)
12-1-7: SUBDIVISIONS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
Subdivisions for building purposes located within the floodway of a flood of
100-year frequency as defined by title 76, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated,
are prohibited. (Ord. 3164, 9-23-2013)
12-1-8: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or phrases appear in this title, they shall be
given the meanings attributed to them by this section. Unless otherwise
specified, the definitions in section 76-3-103, Montana Code Annotated, apply
to this title.
   ALLEY: A public right-of-way which provides only a secondary means of access
to property and is not intended for general travel.
   BOARD OR PLANNING BOARD: The official appointed consolidated Planning Board.
   DEAD END STREET: A street in which both ingress and egress to an area are
restricted to the use of one street.
   EASEMENT: An interest in land owned by another person, consisting of the
right to use or control the land, or an area above or below it, for a specific
limited purpose.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM: A stream or part of a stream that is below the water
table for at least some part of the year and that obtains its flow from both
groundwater discharge and surface runoff.
   LOT: A single parcel or plot of land shown on a plat and intended for
individual ownership.
   PERENNIAL STREAM: A stream or part of a stream that, under normal
precipitation conditions, flows throughout the year. Streams that are dewatered
during part of the year by withdrawals, but would otherwise flow throughout the
year without the withdrawals, are perennial streams.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision application and preliminary plat that at
the time of submission consist of independently platted development phases that
are scheduled for review on a schedule proposed by the subdivider.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way.
   STREET: A public thoroughfare or right-of-way which affords the principal
means of access to property.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger land area. (Ord. 3164, 9-23-2013; amd. Ord. 3244, 10-29-
2018)
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1:   Applicability
12-2-2:   Preapplication Consultation
12-2-3:   Subdivision Application
12-2-4:   Conformance With Regulations; Variances
12-2-5:   Subdivision Application Review
12-2-6:   Community Development Department Review
12-2-7:   City-County Parks Board Recommendation
12-2-8:   Public Notice
12-2-9:   Planning Board Public Hearing And Recommendation For Subdivisions
12-2-10:   Planning Board Report
12-2-11:   City Commission Review
12-2-12:   Amended Applications
12-2-13:   Amended Subdivisions
12-2-14:   Material Changes
12-2-15:   Public Improvements To Be Installed
12-2-16:   Public Improvements Installation Options
12-2-17:   Final Plat Review
12-2-18:   Divisions Of Land Exempt From Subdivision Review
12-2-19:   Expedited Subdivision Review
12-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this title apply to all subdivisions proposed to be created
within the subdivision review jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-2: PREAPPLICATION CONSULTATION:
   A.   Prior to submitting a subdivision application, a subdivider must
consult with the Community Development Department to become familiar with the
City's subdivision application requirements and review process. The subdivider
must attend a preapplication consultation prior to submitting a subdivision
application or resubmitting a previously submitted subdivision application that
has material changes or amendments made by the subdivider after the original
application has been determined by the City to contain required elements and
sufficient information. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
   B.   In order to make the preapplication consultation productive, the
subdivider should provide as much of the following information as possible:
      1.   Names and addresses of the subdivider and the owner of the tract
proposed to be subdivided;
      2.   Name of proposed subdivision;
      3.   Location of tract to be subdivided;
      4.   Existing zoning of the tract to be subdivided;
      5.   Number and size of proposed subdivided lots; if a phased
development, each phase should include this data per phase;
      6.   Size of the proposed subdivision; if a phased development, the size
of each phase should be shown;
      7.   State the name and contact information for any engineer or surveyor
that has been retained;
      8.   Proposed water system;
      9.   Proposed wastewater system;
      10.   Proposed streets;
      11.   Whether the subdivider intends to apply for a zone change, zoning
variance, or subdivision regulation variance;
      12.   Description of any physical and environmental site conditions
affecting development;
      13.   Stormwater drainage provisions;
      14.   Proposed special improvement or maintenance districts;
      15.   Proposed park land dedication; if a phased development, each phase
should include this data per phase; (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
      16.   Legible drawing of the proposed subdivision showing layout of
existing streets in relationship to proposed improvements and topography of the
tract, if possible; drawing does not need to be to scale;
      17.   A general vicinity map showing existing streets and north arrow;
      18.   Existing structures on the property;
      19.   Existing easements and rights-of-way on the property;
      20.   Existing and proposed covenants or deed restrictions;
      21.   Water rights, including the name of owner(s), amount of water by
flow rate or volume, date of priority of the right, purpose of use, place of
use, and place and means of diversion;
      22.   Types and locations of agricultural water facilities; and
      23.   Analysis on how the proposed subdivision complies with the City
growth policy.
   C.   The City will make available to the subdivider, before or at the
preapplication consultation, a list of public utilities, local, State, and
Federal agencies, and any other entities that may have a substantial interest
in the proposed subdivision and that may be contacted for comment on the
subdivision application and the time frames that the utilities, agencies, and
entities are given to respond.
   D.   For informational purposes only, the State laws, local regulations, and
growth policy provisions that may apply to the subdivision review process will
be identified prior to or at the preapplication consultation.
   E.   The preapplication meeting will be scheduled within thirty (30) days
after the subdivider submits a written request for a preapplication
consultation and submits the preapplication materials to the City.
   F.   To be considered for review, a subdivision application must be
submitted within one hundred eighty (180) days of the preapplication meeting
consultation. If an application is not submitted within that time frame, the
subdivider must request a new preapplication consultation prior to submitting
the subdivision application. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-3: SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
   A.   The subdivider must provide one electronic PDF copy of a complete and
sufficient application that contains all the elements listed in this section.
   B.   The application must contain: (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
      1.   Analysis of how the proposed subdivision complies with the growth
policy;
      2.   An aerial photograph or a vicinity map with an outline of the
subdivision clearly indicated thereon; showing:
         a.   The names of adjoining platted subdivisions and numbers of
adjoining certificates of survey previously recorded;
         b.   Proposed or present rights-of-way to the subject subdivision;
         c.   Location of utilities and railroad rights-of-way; and
         d.   Any existing or proposed zoning covering the area proposed for
subdivision and adjacent properties.
      3.   A site plan showing the following information to determine
compliance with zoning:
         a.   The location of all existing structures, including dimensions and
size;
         b.   A description of land uses proposed for the subject property and
adjacent properties;
         c.   The distance of any existing structure from proposed lot lines
(setbacks);
         d.   Location and number of any required parking spaces for existing
uses; and
         e.   Location and size of any required landscaping areas for existing
uses.
      4.   A legal description of the subject property, a copy of the currently
filed plat or certificate of survey, and the last recorded deed for the subject
property;
      5.   The names and addresses of owners of record of adjacent property and
each purchaser under contract for deed of property immediately adjoining the
land proposed to be subdivided;
      6.   Written permission for the subdivider's designated agent to
represent the property owner and subdivider and to receive correspondence
regarding the subdivision;
      7.   A copy of any existing deed restrictions and covenants associated
with the subject property;
      8.   A copy of any existing conservation easements;
      9.   Completed zoning and subdivision variance applications, if
applicable;
      10.   Any ordinances or resolutions, such as alley or street closures,
that specifically impact the plat;
      11.   A description of any existing or proposed stream bank or water
channel alteration, and any proposed construction or modification of water
channels, including information about location, extent, type, and purpose of
alteration;
      12.   A description of the location and amount of any proposed cut or
fill more than three feet (3') in depth from original grade, and identify each
on a plat overlay or sketch map;
      13.   A soil survey map and the most recent interpretations of soil
suitability for the proposed land uses;
      14.   A description of any mineral rights associated with the subject
property and the proposed disposition of those rights;
      15.   A description of any water rights associated with the subject
property, including ownership, volume or flow rate, source of water, point and
means of diversion, period of diversion, type of beneficial use, and place of
beneficial use;
      16.   A preliminary engineering report that contains:
         a.   Location and size of existing and proposed water and wastewater
mains, and fire hydrants that will serve the subdivision;
         b.   Location of nearest water and wastewater mains if none are
located on or adjacent to the tract;
         c.   Type, size and location of existing wastewater treatment
facilities including septic systems;
         d.   The location and capacity of any new wastewater lift stations,
water pump stations, and water reservoirs that may be required to provide
service to the proposed subdivision;
         e.   The location of any existing lift stations, water pump stations,
and water reservoirs that will be used to provide service to the subdivision;
         f.   The anticipated fire flow requirements of the subdivision and
fire flows from existing hydrants; and
         g.   The anticipated volumes and flow rates of water and wastewater
use resulting from the subdivision based on uses permitted by the applicable
zoning district. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
      17.   Transportation information that includes, at a minimum:
         a.   All existing and proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, bike or
pedestrian trails, and rights-of-way located on or adjacent to the subject
property;
         b.   A description of how proposed transportation infrastructure will
provide connectivity to the existing or planned transportation network and how
the street designs are in compliance with the complete street policy;
         c.   Layout information and profiles for proposed rights-of-way
including cross sections grade and curvatures, right-of-way width, and street
names;
         d.   Proposed modification or relocation of existing rights-of-way;
         e.   An estimate of the daily traffic the subdivision will generate
when fully developed based on uses and densities permitted by the property's
zoning and the estimated traffic generation standards of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers;
         f.   A traffic impact study whenever the subdivision is projected to
generate two hundred (200) or more new vehicle trips per day based on the
estimated standards of the Institute of Transportation Engineers. The traffic
impact study must:
            (1)   Provide current and anticipated traffic counts;
            (2)   Provide anticipated traffic distribution within the
transportation network;
            (3)   Identify the current traffic level of service (LOS) and
future LOS of streets and intersections in accordance with engineering
standards;
            (4)   If the subdivision will reduce the service of any
intersection below level of service `C' as defined by the Greater Helena Area
transportation plan, the study must identify improvements or proposed
mitigation needed to alleviate that decrease in service, or if the existing
conditions are currently below level of service `C', the study must identify
improvements or proposed mitigation needed to maintain the existing level of
service;
            (5)   Explain how the proposed transportation system and
improvements will affect existing facilities; and
            (6)   Identify impacts to all modes of transportation and the
proposed mitigation of those impacts.
         g.   For subdivisions that are projected to generate less than two
hundred (200) new trips per day, submit information showing the capability of
existing and proposed streets and nonmotorized facilities to safely accommodate
the increased traffic associated with the subdivision and describe proposed
mitigation of any impacts;
         h.   Provide information on any accommodation proposed to facilitate
public transportation, including school buses;
         i.   Any existing or proposed easement documents that would provide
legal access to the subdivision;
         j.   Identify the location and describe the facilities for stream or
drainage crossings, and provide the design and weight capacity of any existing
or proposed crossings that would be a part of the transportation system;
         k.   Provide a narrative explaining how the subdivision conforms to
the long range transportation system identified in the officially adopted
transportation plan; and
         l.   If a street or alley created by the plat will intersect and
access a State or Federal right-of-way, a copy of the notification to that
entity of the anticipated access and the State or Federal response. (Ord. 3245,
10-29-2018)
      18.   A description of the emergency services available to the residents
of the proposed subdivision, street distance to the subdivision for all
emergency services and estimated response times, and any site constraints that
may impede the delivery of emergency services;
      19.   A site plan showing access to a solid waste collection location for
lots with zoning that permit commercial, industrial, or multi-dwelling
development;
      20.   If park land is required, an indication of the subdivider's
preference for a land donation or cash in lieu and submit the following:
         a.   Submit calculations used to determine required park land
dedication;
         b.   If park land is proposed, describe any park land or open space to
be dedicated with this subdivision, to determine the appropriateness of the
dedication, include a plan for the park land indicating anticipated function,
improvements, and the estimated cost of installation and maintenance of those
improvements;
         c.   Identify existing recreational facilities that will serve the
subdivision;
         d.   Indicate if a special district will be established to finance
park improvements;
         e.   Indicate how the park land will be protected during
infrastructure installation;
         f.   If the park land is proposed to provide multiple uses, such as
part of the stormwater system, submit a plan describing the improvements to be
installed to accommodate the additional uses of the park land;
         g.   Indicate if any of the proposed park land is critical wildlife
habitat; cultural, historical, or natural resources; agricultural interests or
aesthetic values; and submit documentation verifying the area's importance and
the ability to provide for long term protection; and
         h.   If a land donation to a school district is proposed that is equal
to the required park land amount, submit documentation verifying the land is
adequate to be used for school facilities or buildings and showing acceptance
of the land by the school district trustees.
      21.   A fire mitigation plan for any portion of the subdivision located
in a high fire risk area, including identification of any access constraints;
      22.   A grading and stormwater or drainage plan that at a minimum
includes:
         a.   Contours with intervals of five feet (5') or less, and proposed
drainage pattern;
         b.   How stormwater will flow from lots and be controlled and treated;
         c.   Whether stormwater will enter State waters and describe any
proposed control measures, and acknowledgment that a stormwater discharge
permit may be required;
         d.   Location of stormwater drains, existing drainage, and proposed
drainage patterns prepared by a licensed engineer, showing calculations; and
         e.   Location of stormwater detention and retention ponds or treatment
facilities, including who will maintain these facilities.
      23.   A stormwater pollution prevention plan that describes measures to
minimize stormwater impacts during construction;
      24.   Base flood elevation data for subdivisions that have or will have
more than fifty (50) lots or involve five (5) acres or more;
      25.   An estimate of the number of schoolchildren that will be added by
the proposed subdivision, describing the educational facilities that would
serve this subdivision and the distance to each; indicate if bus stops will be
provided and, if so, where;
      26.   A description of the utility companies that will serve the
subdivision and any existing and proposed utilities located on and adjacent to
the property, including the location of gas, electric, and telecommunication
lines and streetlights;
      27.   A description of where postal boxes will be located and how they
will be accessed; (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
      28.   When ownership of infrastructure improvements that are intended to
be transferred to the City affect a third party easement, a copy of
notification to that entity of the potential work within their easement;
      29.   When a tract of land is subdivided in phases, an overall
development plan indicating the subdivider's intentions for development of the
entire tract, including incremental provisions for utilities and estimated
timing of construction; a subdivider applying for a phased development shall
submit with the subdivision application an overall phased development
preliminary plat on which independent platted development phases must be shown.
Each phase must include a minimum of six (6) lots and the date of completion of
each phase. Each phase must include:
         a.   A separate preliminary plat with the number of lots in that
phase;
         b.   The location of proposed water and wastewater infrastructure
needed to serve that phase and demonstrate how these systems can function
independently and will provide for future connectivity;
         c.   The location of proposed stormwater infrastructure needed to
serve that phase and demonstration how these facilities can function
independently and will provide for future connectivity;
         d.   The location of proposed streets and non-motorized infrastructure
needed to serve that phase and demonstration how the proposed motorized and
non-motorized transportation network can function independently and will
provide for future connectivity; and
         e.   The proposed park land dedication and demonstration how the
dedicated park land can function independently.
      30.   An environmental assessment that contains the information required
by section 76-3-603, Montana Code Annotated. The summary of probable impacts
must contain a detailed analysis of each of the primary review criteria
described in section 76-3-608, Montana Code Annotated, and as defined by the
growth policy. The analysis must explain the reasoning behind all conclusions
relative to the primary review criteria. (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
   C.   The following information must be shown on the preliminary plat:
      1.   Title block that includes:
         a.   Name of subdivision;
         b.   Location;
         c.   A scale not exceeding one hundred feet per inch (100' per 1");
         d.   North arrow;
         e.   Date of preparation; and
         f.   Name of preparer.
      2.   The exterior boundaries of the platted tract;
      3.   The location of all section corners or legal subdivision corners of
sections pertinent to the subdivision's boundaries;
      4.   A perimeter survey, including gross acreage and net acreage;
      5.   All lots, blocks, and applicable tracts of land, designated by
numbers and the approximate dimensions and area of each lot;
      6.   Amended subdivision plats must cite the subdivision and the blocks
and lots being amended;
      7.   Legal and physical access to the subdivision and to each lot
therein, including all existing and proposed streets and alleys, the width of
rights-of-way of each with existing and proposed street names, and existing and
proposed locations of intersections or other access points;
      8.   The location, width, and purpose of all existing and proposed
easements and rights-of-way and proposed public and private easements;
      9.   The location, boundaries, dimensions, and areas of all parks and
other grounds dedicated for public use;
      10.   The boundaries of applicable water body setbacks;
      11.   All portions of the subdivision where the slope exceeds twenty five
percent (25%), including areas where the slope may exceed twenty five percent
(25%) due to the installation of streets, utilities, or other earthwork, as
measured in five foot (5') intervals, as special development areas. All lots in
special development areas must show a building site, possible access to the
site, and the length and grade of the access;
      12.   The location of any known or possible objects of historic,
archaeological, or aesthetic significance, or cultural sites or structures that
may be affected by the proposed subdivision; and
      13.   The location of any known hazards that could affect the development
of the subdivision such as, but not limited to:
         a.   Geological hazards such as any rock outcroppings, cliffs,
dropoffs, or faults;
         b.   High fire risk areas;
         c.   Areas of high to moderate risk of liquefaction;
         d.   Waterways, ditches, or canals;
         e.   Toxic or hazardous waste storage or disposal;
         f.   Mining activity;
         g.   High voltage power lines and high pressure gas lines; and
         h.   If site location or previous use of the property may have
resulted in soil contamination, a soil analysis must be provided, including
lead levels, and if soil contamination exists, indicate proposed mitigation
measures. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-4: CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS; VARIANCES:
   A.   Conformance to these regulations and related laws of the State of
Montana is the responsibility of the subdivider.
   B.   Variances from these subdivision regulations may be granted when the
subdivider meets the burden of proving:
      1.   Granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare, or injurious to other adjacent properties;
      2.   Literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations will
result in unnecessary hardship due to particular physical surroundings, shape,
or topographical conditions that are unique to the specific property involved
and that cannot be reasonably resolved by redesigning the subdivision proposal;
      3.   The variance will not cause a substantial increase in public costs;
and
      4.   The variance conforms to the growth policy and this Code.
   C.   To request a variance, the subdivider must submit a written statement
describing the requested variance and relevant facts showing why the variance
should be granted. The City Commission and, if applicable, the Planning Board,
will consider requested variances at the respective meetings on the preliminary
plat.
   D.   When granting variances, the City Commission may impose conditions
that, in its judgment, will substantially secure the objectives of these
regulations. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
   E.   When a subdivider requests a variance from this title, the City
Commission will first consider whether or not to grant any requested variance,
then whether the subdivision application should be approved, conditionally
approved, or denied.
   F.   A subdivision variance request is independent from the determination on
the subdivision application and must be reviewed at a City Commission public
hearing that has been noticed according to subsection
12-2-8A of this chapter. A division of land or aggregation of land exempt from
subdivision review and a first minor subdivision as defined by State law is not
subject to the public hearing requirement of this section. Approval or
conditional approval of a subdivision application and the preliminary plat does
not constitute approval of requested variances. (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
12-2-5: SUBDIVISION APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   The City may investigate, examine, and evaluate the site of the
proposed subdivision to verify information provided by the subdivider and to
subsequently monitor compliance with any conditions imposed on the preliminary
plat. The submission of a subdivision application constitutes a grant of
permission by the property owner for the City and affected agencies to enter
the subject property. Visible flagging on the property adequate to determine
exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision, park land dedication, and
legal access may be required.
   B.   Review and approval, conditional approval, or denial of a subdivision
under this chapter may occur only under those regulations in effect at the time
that a subdivision application is determined to contain sufficient information
for review as provided in this section.
   C.   If regulations change during the period that the application is
reviewed for completeness and sufficient information, the determination of
whether the application is complete and sufficient must be based on the new
regulations. The completeness and sufficiency review time will start from the
time of the adoption of the new regulations.
   D.   Within five (5) full working days of receipt of a subdivision
application and fee, submitted in accordance with the application deadlines,
the City shall determine whether the application contains all of the listed
materials required by section
12-2-3 of this chapter and shall give written notice to the subdivider, or
subdivider's designated agent, of the determination.
      1.   If the City determines that materials are missing from the
application, the City will identify those materials that are not in the
application by written notification to the subdivider, or subdivider's
designated agent. The City will take no further action on the application until
the missing materials are submitted.
      2.   In the event the missing materials are not provided by the
subdivider or subdivider's designated agent within one year of notification to
the subdivider of the incomplete application, all submitted application
materials will be returned to the subdivider or subdivider's designated agent.
Subsequent resubmittal of the subdivision application requires payment of a new
application fee.
      3.   If the subdivider resubmits the application to correct deficiencies,
the City has five (5) full working days to notify the subdivider, or
subdivider's designated agent, whether the resubmitted application contains the
listed materials that were missing from the initial application.
      4.   This process will be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application that contains the elements initially identified as missing or the
application is withdrawn.
   E.   Within fifteen (15) full working days after the City notifies the
subdivider or subdivider's designated agent that the application contains all
of the required materials, the City will determine whether the application and
required materials contain detailed, supporting information that is sufficient
to allow for the review of the proposed subdivision under the provisions of
this title and State law and must notify the subdivider or subdivider's
designated agent of the City's determination.
      1.   If the City determines that the information in the application is
not sufficient to allow for review of the proposed subdivision, the City must
identify the specific required information in its notification and the City
will take no further action on the application until material is resubmitted to
correct the insufficiency.
      2.   In the event sufficient information is not received by the City
within one year of notification to the subdivider or subdivider's designated
agent of any insufficiency, all application materials will be returned to the
subdivider or subdivider's designated agent. Subsequent resubmittal of the
subdivision application requires payment of a new application fee.
      3.   If the subdivider resubmits the application to correct any
insufficiencies, the City has fifteen (15) full working days to notify the
subdivider or subdivider's designated agent whether the resubmitted application
and required elements contain detailed, supporting information that is
sufficient to allow for review of the proposed subdivision under provisions of
the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act and these regulations.
      4.   This process will be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application that contains detailed, supporting information that is sufficient
for review of the proposed subdivision under the provisions of State law and
this chapter, or the application is withdrawn.
      5.   A determination that an application contains sufficient information
for review does not ensure that the proposed subdivision will be approved or
conditionally approved by the City Commission and does not limit the ability of
City staff, the Parks Board, the consolidated Planning Board, or the City
Commission to request additional information during the review process.
      6.   After the City has notified the subdivider or subdivider's
designated agent that an application contains sufficient information as
provided in this section, the Governing Body shall approve, conditionally
approve, or deny a minor subdivision within thirty five (35) working days, or a
major subdivision containing less than fifty (50) lots within sixty (60)
working days, or a major subdivision containing fifty (50) or more lots within
eighty (80) working days unless:
         a.   The subdivider and City Commission agree to an extension or
suspension of the review period, not to exceed one year; or
         b.   A subsequent public hearing is scheduled and held in accordance
with State law.
   F.   If the subdivider disagrees with the City's determination that the
application is insufficient, the subdivider may appeal to the City Manager,
providing the subdivider agrees in writing to an extension of the time
limitations of section 76-3-604, Montana Code Annotated, and this chapter. The
appeal must be made in writing. The City Manager or the Manager's designee
shall render a written decision after receipt of the written appeal.
   G.   The City will make comments by public agencies or utilities available
to the subdivider and to the general public upon request. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-
2013)
   H.   A subdivider applying for phased development review shall submit with
the phased development application an overall phased development preliminary
plat on which independent platted development phases must be presented. The
phased development application must contain the information required pursuant
to section
12-2-3 of this chapter for all phases of a development and a schedule for when
the subdivider plans to submit for review each phase of the development.
   I.   Except as otherwise provided by this section, the phased development
application must be reviewed in conformity with this Code.
   J.   The subdivider may change the schedule for review of each phase of the
development upon approval of the City Commission, after a public hearing, if
the change does not negate conditions of approval or otherwise adversely affect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   K.   Prior to submission of infrastructure plans for review for each phase,
the subdivider shall provide written notice to the City Commission. The notice
shall include any changes to the preliminary plat and an analysis of the phase
as it relates to the primary review criteria and City regulations and
standards. The City Commission must hold a public hearing pursuant to 76-3-605
(3), Montana Code Annotated within thirty (30) working days after receipt of
the written notice from the subdivider. After the hearing, the City Commission
shall determine whether that phase contains any changes to primary criteria
impacts or contains new information that create new potentially significant
adverse impacts for the phase or phases.
   L.   Notwithstanding the provisions of 76-3-610(2), Montana Code Annotated,
the City Commission must issue supplemental written findings of fact within
twenty (20) working days of the hearing and may impose necessary, additional
conditions to minimize potentially significant adverse impacts identified in
the review of each phase of the development for changed primary criteria
impacts or new information.
   M.   Any additional conditions must be met before final plat approval for
each particular phase and the approval in accordance with 76-3-611, Montana
Code Annotated, is in force for not more than three (3) calendar years or less
than one calendar year unless the City Commission approves phased developments
that extend beyond the time limits set forth in 76-3-610, Montana Code
Annotated, but all phases of the phased development must be submitted for
review and approved, conditionally approved, or denied within twenty (20) years
of the date the overall phased development preliminary plat is approved by the
City Commission. (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
12-2-6: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT REVIEW:
   A.   The Community Development Department may distribute a copy of the
subdivision application to potentially affected entities including, but not
limited to, City departments, State agencies such as the Montana Departments of
Transportation and Environmental Quality, utility companies, the public
library, and the school district.
   B.   The Community Development Department may consult with the subdivider or
subdivider's designated agent after presentation of the completed subdivision
application on issues and questions that emerge regarding the preliminary plat
application.
   C.   The Community Development Department shall complete and distribute its
report to the subdivider or subdivider's designated agent, the Planning Board,
and the City Commission, and make it publicly available. The report shall:
      1.   Include relevant subdivision application information;
      2.   Evaluate whether the subdivision application satisfies the
requirements of State law and this Code;
      3.   Discuss how the subdivision application relates to the City growth
policy;
      4.   Identify disputed issues and questions; and
      5.   Recommend approval, conditional approval, or disapproval. (Ord.
3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-7: CITY-COUNTY PARKS BOARD RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   When a major subdivision includes the donation of land that may become
the maintenance responsibility of the City Parks Department or when there is a
requirement for park land dedication, the Parks Department will review the
proposal and submit an evaluation to the consolidated City-County Parks Board
for a recommendation on the disposition of the proposal. The Parks Board
recommendation will be submitted to the Planning Board for review with the
subdivision application.
   B.   When a minor subdivision includes the donation of land that may become
the maintenance responsibility of the City Parks Department or when there is a
requirement for park land dedication, the Parks Department will review the
proposal and submit an evaluation to the consolidated City-County Parks Board
for a recommendation on the disposition of the proposal. The Parks Board
recommendation will be submitted to the City Commission for review with the
subdivision application. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-8: PUBLIC NOTICE:
   A.   When a public hearing is required, the Community Development Department
shall cause notice of the public hearing on the subdivision to be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in Lewis and Clark County not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of hearing as required by law.
The notice must include a summary of the application, including the location
and size of the proposed subdivision, and specify where additional information
can be obtained.
   B.   The Community Development Department shall send a notice conforming to
subsection A of this section to each property owner of record, and each
purchaser under contract for deed of property immediately adjoining the land
included in the plat, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
hearing. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-9: PLANNING BOARD PUBLIC HEARING AND RECOMMENDATION FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing on all proposed major
subdivisions.
   B.   The subdivider will be given first opportunity at the Planning Board
meeting to present information and evidence in support of the application,
after the informational presentation by the Community Development Department.
The meeting will then be open to public comment. After the public has concluded
giving comments and information, the subdivider will be allowed an opportunity
to provide additional information that explains or rebuts questions and issues
raised during public comment. At the close of the public hearing, the Planning
Board may discuss the subdivision application and, in weighing the review
criteria in the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act, consider the following:
Relevant evidence that is in the record relating to the primary review criteria
in section 76-3-608(3), Montana Code Annotated, whether the proposed
subdivision substantially complies with the growth policy, and whether the
subdivision conforms to the provisions of:
      1.   State law;
      2.   Title 11 of this Code;
      3.   This title; and
      4.   Other rules and regulations in effect for the area to be subdivided.
   C.   The board shall then:
      1.   Discuss the factors supporting approval, conditional approval, or
disapproval; and
      2.   Recommend approval, conditional approval, or disapproval to the City
Commission. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-10: PLANNING BOARD REPORT:
   A.   Within ten (10) working days, the Planning Board shall prepare a
written report with the assistance of the Community Development Department. The
report must include:
      1.   The recommendation of the Planning Board for approval, conditional
approval, including any recommended conditions, or disapproval of the
subdivision;
      2.   A recommendation for approval or disapproval of any requested
variances; and
      3.   A summary of its public hearing.
   B.   The Planning Board report must be distributed to the City Commission,
the presiding member of the Planning Board, and the subdivider, and must be
made available to the public prior to the City Commission meeting. (Ord. 3166,
9-23-2013)
12-2-11: CITY COMMISSION REVIEW:
   A.   The City Commission shall review the subdivision application within the
time provided by law unless the subdivider consents to an extension of the
review period. The review must be done at a public hearing held by the City
Commission on the subdivision unless the subdivision is exempt from the
requirement to hold a public hearing.
   B.   The subdivider will be given first opportunity to present information
and evidence in support of the subdivision at the start of the public hearing,
after the informational presentation by the Community Development Department.
After the public has concluded giving comments and information, the subdivider
must be allowed an opportunity to provide additional information that explains
or rebuts questions and issues raised previously by the public.
   C.   Upon an objection made at the hearing, the City Commission shall
determine whether public comments or documents presented to the City Commission
at a public hearing regarding a subdivision application constitute new
information requiring a subsequent hearing in compliance with section 76-3-615,
Montana Code Annotated.
   D.   If the City Commission desires additional information and research
before rendering its decision, it may postpone its decision and request the
additional information and research so long as the decision will be rendered
within the times provided by law, including extensions of time agreed to by the
subdivider.
   E.   The City Commission may only rely on information on the record and
shall consider the primary review criteria in section 76-3-608(3), Montana Code
Annotated, and whether the proposed subdivision complies with State law, this
title, title 11 of this Code, other rules and regulations in effect for the
property being subdivided, and whether the proposed subdivision substantially
complies with the City growth policy.
   F.   Following any decision by the City Commission to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the proposed subdivision, it shall prepare written findings of
fact that discuss the proposed subdivision's compliance with these regulations
and State law and send the subdivider a letter, with the appropriate signature,
and make the letter available to the public within thirty (30) working days
following the City Commission decision. The letter shall:
      1.   Contain information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identify the regulations and statutes that were used in reaching the
decision to deny or impose conditions and explain how they apply to the
decision;
      3.   Provide the facts and conclusions that the Governing Body relied
upon in making its decision, and reference documents, testimony, or other
materials that form the basis of the decision;
      4.   Provide the conditions that apply to the subdivision approval and
that must be satisfied before the final plat may be approved; and
      5.   Include a copy of the approved preliminary plat. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-
2013)
   G.   The City Commission preliminary plat approval must be in force for at
least one year, but no more than three (3) calendar years. No earlier than six
(6) months but no less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the
preliminary plat approval the subdivider may request the City Commission extend
its approval of the preliminary plat for a mutually agreed-upon period of time.
Any preliminary plat approval extension requests in excess of three (3) years
must be reviewed following a public hearing. The City Commission may issue more
than one extension.
      1.   At least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the preliminary
plat approval, but no earlier than six (6) months prior to the expiration of
the preliminary plat approval, the subdivider may submit a written request for
an extension of that approval. The subdivider must include:
         a.   The reasons for requesting an extension;
         b.   A description of the extenuating circumstances beyond the control
of the subdivider that delayed the completion of the conditions of approval;
         c.   A description of what progress has been made toward meeting the
conditions of approval;
         d.   An agreement that the infrastructure design and installation will
comply with the design standards in place at the time of plan submittal; and
         e.   An evaluation of the provision of services and public facilities
in the area of the subdivision that may be disrupted by the extension of the
preliminary plat approval.
      2.   After determining that the subdivider has submitted bona fide
grounds for the extension, the City Commission may grant an extension of the
preliminary plat approval for a mutually agreed upon period of time established
in writing and signed by the members of the City Commission.
      3.   The criteria to be considered by the City Commission in deciding
whether to grant an extension of the preliminary plat approval include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         a.   Changes in the subdivision regulations since preliminary plat
approval and whether the subdivision is substantially compliant with the new
regulations;
         b.   Phasing of the subdivision and the ability for existing
development to be served by City services independent of future improvements;
         c.   Dependence on other development on any public infrastructure to
be installed with the subdivision; and
         d.   Whether or not any changes to the primary criteria impacts
identified in the original preliminary plat approval or any new information not
previously considered exists that creates any new potentially significant
adverse impacts that would support denial of the subdivision extension request.
Additional conditions may not be imposed as a condition of extension of the
preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
12-2-12: AMENDED APPLICATIONS:
   A.   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application after the City
makes a determination of sufficiency pursuant to this chapter, the subdivider
shall submit an amended application to the City for review and submit a written
request for suspension of the subdivision review period.
   B.   The City will review the amended application and determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application are material.
      1.   If the City determines the changes are not material, the subdivision
review period resumes when the City mails notice of the determination to the
subdivider.
      2.   If the City determines the changes are material, the City may
either:
         a.   Require the subdivider to begin the subdivision review process
again, starting with the preapplication consultation, and require payment of a
new application fee; or
         b.   If the amended application was submitted after a public hearing
was held on the original subdivision application before either the Planning
Board or the City Commission, schedule a new public hearing before any body
having considered the original application. A supplemental staff report must be
prepared to address the changes to the original application. If a new public
hearing is held pursuant to this chapter, the subdivision review period is
suspended for the time period between notice of the City's determination of a
material change to the application and ten (10) working days after the date of
the hearing to review the amended application. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-13: AMENDED SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   If the subdivider proposes to change the subdivision after City
Commission approval or conditional approval, the subdivider shall submit the
proposed changes to the City for review.
      1.   If the City determines the changes are not material, notice of that
decision will be mailed to the subdivider.
      2.   If the City determines the changes are material, the City shall
either:
         a.   Require the subdivider to begin the subdivision review process
again, starting with the preapplication consultation, and require payment of a
new application fee; or
         b.   Require the subdivider to submit an amended subdivision
application with an evaluation of the impacts the revisions will have based on
the review criteria and require payment of a minor subdivision application fee.
            (1)   A supplemental staff report must be prepared to address the
changes to the approved subdivision; and
            (2)   A new City Commission public hearing must be conducted to
take comments on the new subdivision application. The City Commission may
require additional conditions that mitigate impacts resulting from the changes
to the subdivision.
   B.   Once the City Commission approves changes to a subdivision, the
previous subdivision is superseded. A previously approved subdivision may not
be reinstated without City Commission review and approval. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-
2013)
12-2-14: MATERIAL CHANGES:
   A.   The following changes may be considered material:
      1.   An amendment that may result in a change in the conditions for
approval;
      2.   An increase in the number of lots or an increase in the square
footage of the subdivision;
      3.   Reconfiguration of a lot or lots that could result in an increase in
traffic that was not evaluated in the subdivision traffic impact study;
      4.   Street layout resulting in a change in legal and physical access;
      5.   Relocation or an increase or decrease in proposed right-of-way
dedication used for access to the subdivision;
      6.   Change in the size or reconfiguration of park land or open space;
      7.   A change in water, wastewater, or stormwater proposals; or
      8.   A change in zoning that results in a significant change in uses or
density.
   B.   If the subdivider disagrees on a determination by the Community
Development Department that the changes are material, the subdivider may appeal
the determination to the City Manager by submitting a written notice of appeal
within five (5) working days that sets forth the reasons for the disagreement
with the determination. The subdivider must agree in writing to an extension of
the time set by law.
   C.   If the City Manager decides that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision are material, the City Manager
will determine the appropriate disposition of the application.
   D.   If the City Manager decides that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision are not material, the review
period resumes as of the date of the decision. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-15: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS TO BE INSTALLED:
The following public improvements must be installed in conformance with plans,
specifications and a construction schedule approved by the City. The required
improvements must be installed as follows:
   A.   Streets within and adjacent to the subdivision to City standards.
   B.   Sidewalks on both sides of the streets must be installed by the owner
of the subdivided property concurrent with installation of streets, curbs, and
gutters. Boulevard landscaping and trees, including irrigation, must be
installed on public rights-of-way abutting private or public parks, open space,
common areas, or other areas intended to be used by the public or common owners
must be installed by the owner of the subdivided property concurrent with
installation of streets, curbs, and gutters.
   C.   All nonmotorized paths located on public rights-of-way.
   D.   Curb and gutter must be installed on both sides of the streets.
   E.   All stormwater facilities.
   F.   Street name, traffic, and parking control signs must be provided to
developer at cost by the City.
   G.   Except as herein provided, new utility distribution lines must be
placed underground. Associated equipment, such as pad mounted transformers, may
be placed above the surface if required for reasons of convenience, safety, or
economy. This subsection does not apply to a main electric feeder line capable
of conveying two thousand (2,000) kVA or more.
   H.   Water and wastewater mains, fire hydrants, manholes, stormwater lines,
and other necessary appurtenances to serve the subdivision. Water and
wastewater mains must be installed to the exterior boundary lines of the
subdivided property to allow the future connection of adjacent property. (Ord.
3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-16: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION OPTIONS:
   A.   The following improvements necessary to protect public health and
safety must be installed in accordance with City approved plans and must obtain
interim acceptance, as defined in the City of Helena Engineering Standards,
prior to City Commission approval of a final plat:
      1.   Water and wastewater systems and appurtenances serving all lots to
be final platted;
      2.   Streets providing legal and physical access to all lots within the
subdivision, including off-site access to the subdivision, installed with a
minimum all weather surface that can accommodate emergency access.
   B.   In addition to the public improvements identified in subsection A of
this section, the City Commission may require public improvements listed in
section
12-2-15 of this chapter to be installed and completed prior to obtaining final
plat approval if there is a finding at the time of preliminary plat review that
the installation of those public improvements prior to filing the final plat
are necessary to protect public health and safety.
   C.   In lieu of the completion of the construction of public improvements
not identified in subsection A or B of this section, prior to the approval of a
final plat, the subdivider may provide a bond or other reasonable security, in
an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to the City that provide
for and secure the construction and installation of the remaining required
improvements within eighteen (18) months from the date of final plat approval.
Reasonable time extension may be granted by the City Commission provided
bonding or other security is also extended. The amount of the bond or security
may be reduced in accordance with completion and final City acceptance of
portions of the required improvements. (Ord. 3245, 10-29-2018)
12-2-17: FINAL PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   After approval of the preliminary plat by the City Commission, the
subdivider may present a final plat to the City Commission for approval.
Portions of an approved preliminary plat will not be approved for final plat
unless the portion has been reviewed as a part of a phased development and the
portion represents an entire phase.
   B.   Prior to submitting a final plat application:
      1.   The applicant must submit a certificate of title, a title insurance
policy, or a report from a title insurance company on the condition of title to
the property proposed for subdivision that identifies the owners of record of
the property, lienholders or claimants of record, encumbrances, easements and
restrictions of record, and all other conditions of title of public record, and
accompanied by a guarantee of the accuracy of the report from the title
insurance agent or its underwriter;
      2.   When the park dedication is in the form of a cash donation, the
applicant must provide one of the following to verify the fair market value of
the unsubdivided, unimproved land:
         a.   A comparative market analysis performed by a licensed realtor;
         b.   A raw land appraisal by a licensed appraiser; or
         c.   The sale price of the property being subdivided if it was
purchased within one year of the date of the subdivision final plat application
submittal.
      3.   The applicant must submit documentation verifying park dedication is
in compliance with required benefits stated in 76-3-621, Montana Code
Annotated, and assures long term protection of lands used for meeting the
required park dedication but ownership is not transferred to the City of
Helena.
   C.   The final plat application and all supporting documents must be
submitted to the City at least sixty (60) working days prior to the expiration
of subdivision approval to allow for review prior to plat expiration. The final
plat application must contain the information and be in the format as required
by State law and include the following:
      1.   The final plat application;
      2.   The final plat review fee;
      3.   A written summary and supporting documentation verifying how each
condition of preliminary plat approval has been satisfied;
      4.   Written consent to subdivide from lienholders or claimants of
record;
      5.   Approval from the City Public Works Department indicating acceptance
of installed infrastructure;
      6.   Signed public improvements agreement and approved financial
guarantee when applicable;
      7.   A Municipal facilities exemption or subdivision approval from the
Department of Environmental Quality;
      8.   Verification from the Parks and Recreation Department for any
required park land dedication and improvements or payment of cash in lieu
thereof is in compliance with the preliminary plat as approved by the City
Commission;
      9.   Deeds conveying title to the City for dedicated properties such as
parks and stormwater facilities;
      10.   Show public utility easements within the subdivision with the
correct dimensions and location and provide easement agreements to the City for
any City utilities not in rights-of-way;
      11.   When ownership of infrastructure improvements that are intended to
be transferred to the City affect a third party easement, documentation from
that entity verifying the work within their easement is in compliance with
their easement;
      12.   A copy of MDT access permit or agreement for highway intersection
and other required MDT access;
      13.   A legal description of the subject property and a copy of the last
recorded conveyance document for the subject property;
      14.   Verification that all taxes and assessments on the property have
been paid in full; and
      15.   Verification that an examining land surveyor has reviewed and
approved the final plat.
      16.   Addressing Coordinator approval of street names; and
      17.   Three (3) copies of the final plat, completed in accordance with
the uniform standards for final subdivision plats, and either one (1) eleven
inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") or one (1) eight and one-half inch by eleven
inch (81/2" x 11") copy. The subdivider also must submit the final plat and
application materials to the City in a PDF format.
   D.   The City will not accept, begin processing, or schedule any actions on
a final plat submittal until a complete application, payment of fee, and copies
of the final plat have been received. A final plat is considered to be received
on the date of delivery to the Community Development Department when
accompanied by the review fee.
   E.   Within twenty (20) working days of receipt of a final plat, the
Community Development Department shall determine whether the final plat
contains the information required under subsection C of this section and shall
notify the subdivider or, with the subdivider's written permission, the
subdivider's agent of that determination in writing. If the City determines
that the final plat does not contain the information required under subsection
C of this section the City shall identify the final plat's defects in the
notification.
   F.   The City may review subsequent submissions of the final plat only for
information found to be deficient during the original review of the final plat
under subsection E of this section.
   G.   The time limits provided in subsection E of this section apply to each
submission of the final plat until a written determination is made that the
final plat contains the information required under subsection C of this section
and the subdivider or the subdivider's agent is notified.
   H.   If a determination is made under subsection E of this section that the
final plat contains the information required under subsection C of this
section, the City Commission shall review and approve or deny the final plat
within twenty (20) working days.
   I.   The subdivider or the subdivider's designated agent and the Community
Development Department may mutually agree in writing to extend the review
periods provided for in this section and establish the timeframes for the
extension and any relevant parameters.
   J.   If the City determines that the final plat differs materially from the
approved or conditionally approved subdivision, the subdivider is required to
submit an amended application pursuant to this chapter.
   K.   The Community Development Department shall review the conditions of
approval to see if they have been satisfied and prepare a written
recommendation to the City Commission on whether the final plat should be
approved for filing.
   L.   The City Commission shall approve or deny the final plat. After the
City Commission's review and action, the original and one copy of the final
plat must be returned to the subdivider.
   M.   The City Commission shall approve the final plat if:
      1.   It conforms to the conditions set forth in the subdivision approval
and the terms of applicable law and regulations promulgated thereunder,
including the uniform standards for final subdivision plats; and
      2.   The Lewis and Clark County Treasurer has certified that all Real
Property Taxes and special assessments levied and assessed on the land to be
subdivided have been paid.
   N.   If the final plat is denied, the grounds for denial must be stated in
the records of the City Commission and a copy sent to the subdivider. The
subdivider may make the necessary corrections and resubmit the final plat for
approval.
   O.   The subdivider shall file the approved and signed final plat with the
Lewis and Clark County Clerk and Recorder, and deliver a copy of the final plat
to the Community Development Department. Any dedications must be accepted by
specific action by the City Commission and noted on the final plat. (Ord. 3245,
10-29-2018)
12-2-18: DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM SUBDIVISION REVIEW:
   A.   The use of any exemption set forth in sections 76-3-201 and 76-3-207,
Montana Code Annotated, for the purposes of evading subdivision review, city
zoning regulations, or installation of infrastructure such as access, water,
and wastewater, is prohibited. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
   B.   Any division or aggregation of land that is exempt from subdivision
review must be certified by the Director of Community Development or a
designated representative and the City Engineer or a designated representative
that the exemption is applicable. The property owners shall submit an
electronic copy of the following information to show entitlement to exemption
and compliance with this Code:
      1.   The last recorded deed or other documentation of ownership of all
affected property;
      2.   The most recently filed plat or certificate of survey;
      3.   A proposed amended plat or certificate of survey showing legal and
physical access to each lot, and the proposed configuration of the tracts in
compliance with survey requirements;
      4.   A list of prior divisions of land or reconfiguration of the
particular tract in question without local government review and previous
exemptions used for the divisions or reconfigurations;
      5.   A site plan showing access to adequate water and wastewater mains
and fire hydrants;
      6.   A diagram showing that any structures on the subject lots are in
compliance with zoning;
      7.   A document showing the location, width, and purpose of all easements
on the subject property or off-site easements that may impact the provision of
services, stormwater, and access;
      8.   For divisions made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose
of a single gift or sale to a member of the property owner's immediate family,
verification that the family member is the spouse of the grantor, or whether by
blood or adoption a son, daughter, mother, or father of the grantor; and
      9.   A complete and correct application must be resubmitted within one
year of notification of an incomplete application. Resubmittal of the
application beyond that time frame requires a new application.
   C.   The City shall consider the following in determining whether a proposed
plat or certificate of survey using the exemptions provided in 76-3-201,
Montana Code Annotated or 76-3-207, Montana Code Annotated is an attempt to
evade subdivision review:
      1.   An exempt plat or certificate of survey may not be certified or
approved for filing when the original lots or parcels have legal and physical
access to public ways, are served by water and wastewater mains that are built
to City Engineering Standards and all required stormwater facilities have been
provided and the proposed plat or certificate of survey configuration creates
lots or parcels without those services. The installation of required public
improvements under this section may be deferred pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   An amended plat or certificate of survey which includes lots or
parcels that do not have legal and physical access to public ways, are not
served by water and wastewater mains that are compliant with City standards,
and on which all required stormwater facilities are not included must place a
development restriction on those lots or parcels on the amended plat or
certificate of survey and any instrument transferring title thereto. (Ord.
3245, 10-29-2018)
   D.   The City shall review evidence submitted by the subdivider requesting
an exemption and will determine if the proposal is an attempt to evade
subdivision review. The Department of Community Development will notify the
subdivider in writing if the exemption is disallowed.
   E.   Any person whose proposed use of an exemption has been denied by the
Director of Community Development because the proposed division of land has
been deemed an attempt to evade subdivision regulations may appeal the decision
to the City Commission by filing a written appeal with the City Manager within
twenty (20) days of the date of written denial. The City Manager will place the
requested appeal on the City Commission agenda and notify the subdivider of the
meeting.
   F.   If the City Commission concludes that the evidence and information
support that the exemption is not being invoked to evade subdivision
regulations, it may authorize the use of the exemption in writing. A
certificate of survey claiming an exemption from subdivision review, which
otherwise is in proper form, and which the City Commission has found is not an
attempt to evade subdivision regulations, may be filed or an instrument of
conveyance recorded if it is accompanied by written authorization of the City.
(Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
12-2-19: EXPEDITED SUBDIVISION REVIEW:
   A.   An amended plat that does not create any additional lots, but redesigns
or rearranges six (6) or more lots in a platted subdivision qualifies for
expedited review under this section if:
      1.   The resulting lots have legal and physical access to public rights-
of-way, are served by City water and wastewater mains located in adjacent
public rights-of-way or City held easements; and
      2.   The resulting lots are in compliance with zoning and survey
requirements.
   B.   An application for and review of a subdivision under this section is
the same as described in chapter 5 of this title with the following exceptions:
      1.   The notice of the City Commission meeting does not need to be mailed
to owners of adjacent property; and
      2.   Park land dedication is not required. (Ord. 3166, 9-23-2013)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
(Ord. 2844, 6-22-1998)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1:   Applicability
12-4-2:   General Requirements For Streets
12-4-3:   Street Grades
12-4-4:   Alleys
12-4-5:   Easements
12-4-6:   Lots
12-4-7:   Water Supply And Wastewater Disposal
12-4-8:   Grading And Drainage Facilities
12-4-9:   Solid Waste Disposal
12-4-10:   Special Development Designation
12-4-11:   Watercourses, Water Bodies, And Wetlands
12-4-12:   Park Dedication
12-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter apply to public improvements required as a
result of the approval or conditional approval of any subdivision. (Ord. 3167,
9-23-2013)
12-4-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS:
   A.   Streets must be designed according to standards and requirements of the
city, including, but not limited to, the city's policy as reflected in
resolution 19799, requiring that the planning, design, and construction of
streets work toward the goal of making streets in Helena complete streets.
   B.   Public rights of way that are dedicated to the city must be designed
according to the standards and requirements of the city.
   C.   Blocks may not exceed six hundred feet (600') in length except when a
longer length is needed to meet grade limitations, the existing built
environment, water bodies or railroad crossings, or industrial uses.
   D.   Except for dead end streets, public street rights of way must have
through public right of way accesses that connect with existing public streets
as follows:
      1.   Each subdivision with a projected trip generation of more than two
hundred (200) vehicle trips per day must have a minimum of two (2) public right
of way accesses for ingress and egress.
      2.   Additional public right of way accesses may be required when need is
demonstrated for adequate emergency access and evacuation, to accommodate
travel distances associated with the size of the property, and to improve
connectivity with surrounding properties.
   E.   Dead end streets are allowed only when the applicant can demonstrate a
dead end street is necessary due to compelling circumstances such as
enhancement of safety, compliance with the complete streets resolution 19799,
topography constraints, mitigating disturbance of existing watercourses,
mitigation of access obstructions, or a temporary dead end street intended for
future extension. Dead end streets may not exceed six hundred feet (600') in
total length. Dead end streets longer than one hundred fifty feet (150') must
have an emergency turnaround designed and installed according to the standards
and requirements of the city. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-3: STREET GRADES:
   A.   The maximum grade for:
      1.   Streets is ten percent (10%), except as otherwise provided in this
section; and
      2.   An intersection, the fifty feet (50') of street approach prior to an
intersection, and emergency turnaround is four percent (4%). (The measurement
of a street approach to an intersection is taken from where the projected curbs
intersect.)
   B.   Variances from the maximum street grade may not be granted by the city
commission. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-4: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys may be provided for service access, off street loading, solid
waste collection, and utility installation.
   B.   Any alley within a subdivision must be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
of dedicated public right of way and designed to avoid alley to alley
intersections, sharp changes in alignment, and dead ends.
   C.   Alley grades are subject to review and approval by the public works
department. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements must be granted to the city for city water and wastewater
utilities, stormwater facilities, and nonmotorized facilities that are not
located in dedicated public rights of way.
   B.   City utility easements that are not adjacent to dedicated public rights
of way must have a minimum width of twenty feet (20'). Easements adjacent to
dedicated rights of way must be at least ten feet (10') wide.
   C.   The subdivider must describe and show all easements that are to be
granted and dedicated to the city for the placement and access of utilities on
the final plat. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   Every lot must be adjacent to a street public right of way.
   B.   When there is an existing structure on a proposed lot, the lot must
meet district dimensional standards as specified in title 11 of this code to
accommodate the existing structure. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-7: WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   The water distribution system must be designed to connect to the
existing city water distribution system and provide each lot with water
service. The water system must be designed according to standards and
requirements of the city.
   B.   The wastewater collection system must be designed to connect to the
city wastewater treatment plant and to provide each lot with wastewater
service. The water system must be designed according to standards and
requirements of the city. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-8: GRADING AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   The subdivider shall include provisions for grading in the subdivision
design that meet the minimum requirements of the city.
   B.   Grading shall be subject to approval by the city public works
department. Grading must not proceed on property intended for subdivision until
city approval of a grading plan.
   C.   For earthwork, including cut and fill for installation of public
improvements, whether on public or privately owned property, protective slope
measures, when required after completion of improvement project, must be used.
The protective measures following earthwork must mitigate erosion, stormwater
runoff and demonstrate long term soil stabilization to levels equal to or
better than what existed prior to the earthwork. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-9: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   The subdivider shall include provisions for collection and disposal of
solid waste in the subdivision design that meet the minimum requirements of the
city.
   B.   The subdivision must be designed to provide access for the collection
and disposal of solid waste for city provided solid waste services. (Ord. 3167,
9-23-2013)
12-4-10: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT DESIGNATION:
Any portion of a lot that has an existing slope of twenty five percent (25%) or
more, as measured in five foot (5') contour intervals, must be designated on
the final plat as a special development area. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-11: WATERCOURSES, WATER BODIES AND WETLANDS:
   A.   Watercourses, water bodies, and wetlands are a vital natural resource.
These water systems provide animal, aquatic and plant habitat and facilitate
recharging aquifers.
Vegetative buffers, riparian setback areas, and wetlands are crucial in
maintaining these water systems which filter contaminants and sediments to
improve water quality, provide wildlife habitat, space for watercourse
migration, and natural flood control. Subdivisions adjacent to these features
can have an impact on these functions.
   B.   A minimum of seventy five feet (75') of vegetative buffer is required
on each side of a perennial stream as measured from the ordinary high water
mark on a horizontal plane. A minimum of fifty feet (50') of vegetative buffer
is required on all sides of a wetland, pond, lake, reservoir, or intermittent
stream which is tributary to a perennial stream, as measured from the ordinary
high water mark on a horizontal plane. Existing vegetation in those areas may
not be disturbed or removed, except as needed to control noxious weeds, reduce
accumulated fuels for fire protection, to remove individual trees that pose an
imminent physical danger to people or property, or to construct city approved
public infrastructure.
   C.   Buildings, structures, or any impervious area may not be placed or
constructed within two hundred feet (200') from the ordinary high water mark of
a perennial stream as measured on a horizontal plane, or one hundred feet
(100') from the ordinary high water mark of a wetland, pond, lake, reservoir,
or intermittent stream which is tributary to a perennial stream, as measured on
a horizontal plane, except city approved public infrastructure is permitted
with these setbacks.
   D.   Where wetlands are present, the subdivider must retain a qualified
wetland professional to determine the wetland's boundary in accordance with the
most current wetlands delineation manual sanctioned by the U.S. army corps of
engineers - Omaha district. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
12-4-12: PARK DEDICATION:
   A.   Park land dedication must be consistent with the city's comprehensive
parks, recreation, and open space plan.
   B.   A subdivider shall provide a park dedication or a cash donation, land
donation, or a combination of both to the city in compliance with the Montana
subdivision and platting act and this section.
   C.   Park dedication is required for all subdivisions, including first and
subsequent minor subdivisions that create three (3) or more lots, when the land
being subdivided is located within a zoning district that allows residential
uses by right.
   D.   Stormwater and drainage facilities may be located within donated park
land if site and design plans are approved by the city commission. Such areas
count toward the park land dedication requirement if they are designed and
installed by the subdivider to serve as an amenity to the park and fit into the
planned uses and improvements to the park. (Ord. 3167, 9-23-2013)
CHAPTER 5
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-5-1:   City Commission Discretionary Power
12-5-2:   Review
12-5-3:   Amended Minor Subdivision Applications
12-5-1: CITY COMMISSION DISCRETIONARY POWER:
Subdivisions defined as minor subdivisions by state law will be reviewed
pursuant to those requirements established by state law and this chapter. (Ord.
3065, 10-16-2006)
12-5-2: REVIEW:
Except as otherwise provided, the review of a minor subdivision application
must comply with all requirements of this title.
   A.   Unless otherwise extended or suspended by written agreement between the
subdivider and the city, the city commission shall approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the minor subdivisions within thirty five (35) working days
from a determination by the city that the application contains the required
elements and sufficient information for review. Extensions or suspensions may
not exceed one year. (Ord. 3065, 10-16-2006)
   B.   The following requirements do not apply to the review of minor
subdivisions:
      1.   The requirement to prepare an environmental assessment;
      2.   Review by the planning board; and
      3.   The requirement to hold a public hearing on the subdivision
application. (Ord. 3168, 9-23-2013)
   C.   The minor subdivision application must include a summary of the
probable impacts of the proposed subdivision based on the criteria described in
section 76-3-608(3), Montana Code Annotated.
   D.   Notice of the time and place of the city commission meeting for its
consideration of proposed subdivision must be mailed to owners of adjacent
property by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least ten (10) calendar days
prior to the commission meeting.
   E.   A subdivision application submitted as a subsequent minor subdivision
will be reviewed as a major subdivision if the city determines the minor
subdivision application was submitted in an effort to evade subdivision
regulations. The following conditions, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered an attempt to evade subdivision regulations:
      1.   Multiple previous divisions of a tract of record by the same
property owner;
      2.   Multiple applications for minor subdivisions of the same tract of
record;
      3.   Adequate legal and physical access is not available to all lots;
      4.   Adequate water and wastewater is not available to all lots;
      5.   The proposed subdivision does not comply with zoning requirements;
or
      6.   Any previous division of a tract that did not result in a bona fide
use of the resulting tracts as originally represented in the original division.
(Ord. 3065, 10-16-2006)
12-5-3: AMENDED MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS:
   A.   If, after the application is reviewed for required elements and
sufficient information, the subdivider submits any change to the minor
subdivision application, the change will not be considered unless the
subdivider first consents in writing to extension or suspension of the city's
review period as provided in this section:
      1.   If the community development director determines the changes are not
material, the review period resumes when the subdivider is notified that the
changes are not material.
      2.   If the community development director determines the changes are
material, the city may require the subdivider to resubmit the application and
preliminary plat as a new application and, if necessary, attend a new
preapplication meeting. (Ord. 3065, 10-16-2006)
   B.   The following changes, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered material:
      1.   An amendment that may result in a change in the proposed conditions
for approval;
      2.   An increase in the number of lots or an increase in the area of the
subdivision;
      3.   Reconfiguration of a lot that could result in an increase in traffic
that was not evaluated in the subdivision traffic study;
      4.   Street layout resulting in a change in legal and physical access;
      5.   Relocation or an increase or decrease in proposed right of way
dedication used for access to the subdivision;
      6.   A change in water, wastewater, or stormwater proposals; or
      7.   A change in zoning that results in a significant change in types of
uses permitted or density. (Ord. 3168, 9-23-2013)
   C.   A subdivider whose subdivision application or preliminary plat has been
deemed materially changed by the community development director may appeal the
decision to the city manager by submitting a written notice of appeal within
five (5) working days that sets forth the reasons for the disagreement with the
decision. The subdivider must submit reasons or additional evidence to show
that the changes to the preliminary plat are not material. (Ord. 3065, 10-16-
2006)
CHAPTER 6
AMENDMENTS; FEES; VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12-6-1:   Amendments; Procedure
12-6-2:   Fees
12-6-3:   Violations; Validity
12-6-1: AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE:
Any regulation or provision of this title may be changed and amended by the
City Commission after report and recommendations by the Planning Board,
provided, however, that such amendment shall not be effective until after a
public hearing has been held, legal public notice of which shall have been
given in a newspaper of general circulation, or by other legal means, in the
City, at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. (Ord. 2913, 8-13-2001)
12-6-2: FEES:
   A.   A preliminary or final plat may not be accepted by the City until the
required fees have been received by the Community Development Department. (Ord.
3169, 9-23-2013)
   B.   In order to cover costs of reviewing plans, holding hearings, and other
expenses incidental to the review of a subdivision, the applicant must pay a
fee, as established by the City Commission, at the time of application.
The schedule of fees must be posted in the Community Development Department
Office. (Ord. 3246, 10-29-2018)
12-6-3: VIOLATIONS; VALIDITY:
   A.   Violations And Penalties: Violations shall be punishable in accordance
with section 76-3-105, Montana Code Annotated.
   B.   Validity; General: Should any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this title be declared unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2913, 8-13-2001)
TITLE 13
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Definitions
13-1-2: Open Burning Prohibited Without Permit
13-1-3: Restrictions On All Fires
13-1-4: Additional Restrictions On Open Burning
13-1-5: Additional Restrictions On Recreational Fires
13-1-6: Adoption Of Fire Restrictions
13-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
 
                    The Fire Chief or the Fire Chief's designee charged with
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL: the administration and enforcement of the International
                    Fire Code.
                    The burning of materials in an unenclosed space (i.e. open
                    fields, wildland urban interface) wherein products of
                    combustion such as trees, brush, grass, and weeds are
                    emitted directly into the ambient air without passing
                    through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. Open
                    burning does not include road flares, smudge pots, or
OPEN BURNING:       similar devices associated with safety or occupational uses
                    typically considered open flames, recreational fires, or
                    use of portable outdoor fireplaces. A chamber shall be
                    regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion
                    occurs, only apertures, ducts, stacks, flues, or chimneys
                    necessary to provide combustion air and permit the escape
                    of exhaust gas are open.
                    An outdoor fire burning materials not contained in an
                    incinerator, outdoor fireplace, portable outdoor fireplace,
                    barbeque grill or barbeque pit, which has a total fuel area
RECREATIONAL FIRE:  of three feet (3') or less in diameter and two feet (2') or
                    less in height. This kind of fire includes ordinary
                    campfires and other small fires, and is not meant to be
                    used for burning trees, brush, or grass. Burning of trash
                    or rubbish is prohibited.
 
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
13-1-2: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or
maintained any open burning or within the City of Helena unless conducted in
accordance with the conditions of a permit issued by the Fire Code Official and
in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
   B.   A permit shall only be issued to the owner of the land upon which the
fire is to be kindled, or alternatively, to the landowner's agent.
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
13-1-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ALL FIRES:
   A.    All fires must be constantly attended until extinguished. A minimum of
one portable fire extinguisher (five pounds (5 lbs.) or larger) with a minimum
four (4)-A rating or other on-site fire-extinguishing equipment, such as dirt,
sand, water barrel, garden hose, or water truck, must be available for
immediate utilization.
   B.    If any fire grows outside the confined or intended area, the person
responsible for the fire, homeowner, and/or permit holder may each be held
liable for suppression costs and damages and other civil and criminal penalties
as allowed by law.
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
13-1-4: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING:
   A.   If the Montana Department of Environmental Quality has issued an
unhealthy, very unhealthy, or hazardous air quality warning for all or a
portion of Lewis and Clark County, an otherwise valid permit issued under this
section may not be used. It is the permittee's responsibility to check
conditions before burning.
   B.   When open burning creates or adds to a hazardous situation, or a
required permit for open burning has not been obtained, the Fire Department is
authorized to order the extinguishment of the open burning operation.
   C.   The location for open burning shall not be less than fifty feet (50')
from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within fifty feet (50') of any structure. If the recreational fire
size is three feet (3') or less in diameter and two feet (2') or less in
height, then permitted open burning may be conducted not less than twenty-five
feet (25') from a structure. It is the permittee's responsibility to eliminate
conditions within twenty-five feet (25') of a structure which could cause a
fire to spread prior to ignition.
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
13-1-5: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON RECREATIONAL FIRES:
   Portable outdoor fireplaces must be used in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and shall not be operated within fifteen feet (15')
of a structure or combustible material.
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
13-1-6: ADOPTION OF FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    When Lewis and Clark County established fire restrictions pursuant to
Montana Code Annotated 7-3-2212, or the State of Montana, Lewis and Clark
County, or any other entity with authority to do so have declared Stage 1 or
Stage 2 Fire Restriction, the same restrictions apply as if issued by the
Commission.
   B.    The City Manager and Fire Chief each have the authority to create
restrictions and prohibitions on burning in order to remain consistent with
other jurisdictions when, in their determination, the following conditions
apply:
      1.   Open burning or recreational fires would be inconsistent with a
local air pollution control program established pursuant to Montana Code
Annotated 75-2-301;
      2.   There exists an active wildland or structural fire within Lewis and
Clark County that poses a potential threat to properties located within the
City of Helena; or
      3.   There exists other conditions which create a danger to persons or
property if open burning or recreational fires are allowed.
   C.   A written finding declaring it necessary to restrict burning shall be
maintained by the City Clerk and published in all media outlets and social
platforms by the Public Information Officer for the City of Helena.
(Ord. 3303, 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
13-2-1: Adoption
13-2-2: Enforcement
13-2-3: Definitions
13-2-4: Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents Prohibited
13-2-5: Parade Floats
13-2-6: Wildfire Risk Area
13-2-7: Amendments
13-2-8: Penalties
13-2-9: Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
13-2-10: Validity
13-2-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   The City Commission adopts the 2021 edition of the international fire
code, with the exception of language specifically deleted, modified, or amended
by this chapter. The Commission additionally adopts Appendices B, C, D, E, F,
G, I, and L to the 2021 international fire code. These provisions are adopted
for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire, hazardous materials or explosion. A copy of the
2021 international fire code is filed in the office of the clerk of the
commission for reference purposes.
   B.   If there is any conflict between any paragraph, section, sentence, or
word of the fire code as adopted and amended by the city, and any paragraph,
section, sentence, or word of the fire code as adopted and amended by the
state, the more stringent paragraph, section, sentence, or word of either code
controls.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The fire code is enforced by the Helena fire department.
   B.   The chief of the fire department may detail members of the fire
department as necessary to ensure the functioning and operation for fire
prevention and investigation.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
                   The current version of the building code adopted by the city
BUILDING CODE:     of Helena. A copy of the building code is filed in the
                   office of the clerk of the commission.
CHIEF, FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the Helena fire department.
DEPARTMENT:        The Helena fire department.
FIRE CODE:         The 2021 edition of the international fire code, as adopted
                   with modifications by the city.
                   Wherever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the fire code it
JURISDICTION:      shall be held to mean the legal jurisdiction of the city of
                   Helena.
 
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-4: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited within the
city limits except as exempted by law or by agencies of the United States
government and the state of Montana which have asked to store limited
quantities and received a permit from the fire chief.
   B.   The applicant for such permit must identify and assess all hazards and
risks associated with the proposed storage and verify in writing to the
satisfaction of the fire chief that the storage does not present an
unacceptable risk.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-5: PARADE FLOATS:
   Vehicles and tow trailers used as parade floats shall not have or contain
any of the following:
   A.   Any type of fire;
   B.   Explosive materials or blasting agents;
   C.   Smoking materials;
   D.   Fireworks and pyrotechnic materials;
   E.   Flammable or combustible liquids;
   F.   Open flame devices;
   G.   Flammable gases;
   H.   Hazardous materials;
   I.   Fuel powered equipment; or
   J.   Heat producing equipment and devices, including barbeque grills.
   K.   Exceptions: Generators may be used if located at least three feet (3')
away from any combustible material and properly secured to restrict movement.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-6: WILDFIRE RISK AREA:
   Land that is covered with grass, grain, brush or forest, whether privately
or publicly owned, which is so situated or is of such inaccessible location
that a fire originating upon it would present an abnormally difficult job of
suppression or would result in great or unusual damage through fire or such
areas designated by the fire code official. The fire chief or their designee is
authorized to determine when a wildland area is fire prone and may declare it
to be a Wildfire Risk Area. The fire chief or their designee is authorized to
determine and publicly announce when Wildfire Risk Areas are closed to entry
and when such areas may again be opened to entry.
   A.   Posting of Wildfire risk areas: The fire chief or their designee shall
post signs at access points prohibiting entry into closed Wildfire risk areas
hazardous fire areas.
   B.   Criminal trespass to Wildfire risk areas: A person commits the offense
of criminal trespass to Wildfire risk areas if the person enters or remains
without authority in a properly posted Wildfire risk areas, except owners and
occupants of private property within the closed and posted areas, including
their guests and invitees; authorized persons engaged in the operation and
maintenance of necessary utilities such as electrical power, gas, telephone,
water, and sewer; and local, state, and federal public officers and their
authorized agents acting in the course of duty.
   C.   Tampering with signs, barricades, or locks: A person may not tamper
with, mutilate, destroy, or remove locks, barricades, or signs posting or
closing Wildfire risk area.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-7: AMENDMENTS:
Section 506.1 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the following:
   Where access to or within a structure or an area is restricted because of
secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official is authorized to require a key
box to be installed in an approved location. The key box shall be of an
approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037, and shall contain keys to gain
necessary access as required by the fire code official. Knox boxes are required
in the City of Helena for every occupancy that has any fire and life safety
systems which include, fire sprinkler, fire alarm, fire suppression or fire
extinguishing to ensure the Fire Department can make immediate access.
Section 509.1 of the fire code is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
   Any area containing fire protection, fire detection, utilities, or other
equipment used during emergency operations shall be clearly identified. Signage
shall be of a durable material, permanently installed, and have a red
background with white 1 ½" lettering. Under certain conditions, exceptions may
be granted subject to approval by the Fire Code Official.
Section 903.3.5 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the
following:
   Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this
section and the standards referenced in section 903.3.1.
   The potable water supply shall be protected against backflow in accordance
with the requirements of this section and the International Plumbing Code. For
connection to public waterworks systems, the water supply test used for design
of fire protection systems shall be adjusted to account for seasonal and daily
pressure fluctuations based on information from the water supply authority and
as approved by the fire coded official. Unless otherwise approved by the Fire
Code Official combined domestic service and fire sprinkler service is not
allowed. They must be separated at the main.
Section 903.4.2 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the
following:
   An approved audible device, located on the exterior of the building in an
approved location, shall be connected to each automatic sprinkler system. Such
sprinkler waterflow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent
to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the
system. Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic
sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system. In buildings or
structures of such size, arrangement or occupancy, audible and visual
notification devices must be provided throughout.
Section 905.1 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the following:
   Standpipe systems shall be provided in new buildings and structures in
accordance with section 905.2 through 905.11. In buildings used for high-piled
combustible storage, fire protection shall be in accordance with Chapter 32.
This section and all other applicable sections are amended to include the
following. Hose connections shall be located on the intermediate level unless
otherwise approved by the Fire Code Official.
Section 905.11 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the following:
   Where required in Chapter 11, existing structures shall be equipped with
standpipes installed in accordance with Section 905. Hose connections shall be
located on the intermediate level unless otherwise approved by the Fire Code
Official.
Section 907.1 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the following:
   This section covers the application, installation, performance and
maintenance of fire alarm systems and their components in new and existing
buildings and structures. The requirements of Section 907.2 are applicable to
new buildings and structures. The requirements of Section 907.9 are applicable
to existing buildings and structures. Addressable fire alarm systems are
required in the City of Helena unless otherwise approved by the AHJ. Networking
fire alarm systems must be approved by the AHJ.
Section 907.6.6 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the
following:
   Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or by the International Building
Code shall be monitored by an approved supervising station in accordance with
NFPA 72. When required by the fire code official, non-required fire alarm
systems shall be monitored by an approved supervising station in accordance
with NFPA 72 and this code.
   Exception: Monitoring by a supervising station is not required for:
   1.   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section 907.2.11.
   2.   Smoke detectors in Group I-3 occupancies.
   3.   Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
Section 915.1 of the 2021 International Fire Code is amended to the following:
   Carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in new buildings in accordance
with Sections 915.1.1 through 915.6. Carbon monoxide detection shall be
installed in existing buildings in accordance with Section 1103.9. Carbon
Monoxide alarm signals are required to be automatically transmitted as an alarm
signal to a supervising station and must activate the occupant notification
system.
Chapter 56: Explosives and Fireworks is adopted with the following amendments
and additions:
   Section 5601.1. is deleted and the following placed in lieu thereof:
      Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful for any person to store,
handle, display for sale, sell at retail, use, or explode any fireworks.
      Exceptions:
         a.   For public display by permit as set forth in section 5608.
         b.   Possession of fireworks is allowed as provided for in the Helena
city code.
      Insurance:
         a.   Any organization or group of individuals planning a public
display of fireworks must provide the city with proof that the group has a
general liability insurance policy with policy limits of no less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per year for bodily injury,
personal injury, and property damage, with the City named as an additional
insured.
         b.   Proof of insurance must be provided with the application for the
permit referenced in § 50-37-108, Mont. Code Ann., prior to approval of any
public display of fireworks. The general liability insurance policy must be
valid at the time of the public display.
         c.   Alternative methods of liability coverage may be approved if
equivalent to the above-listed requirements.
      Blasting shall comply with this section and Section 5607 of the 2021
International Fire Code.
      Insurance: Before a permit is issued to use explosive materials for
blasting operations, the applicant must file with the fire department proof of
an existing liability insurance policy with policy limits of no less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per year for bodily injury,
personal injury, and property damage, with the City named as an additional
insured.
      Personnel Qualifications: The person in charge of handling and use of
explosive materials must be at least 21 years of age and possesses both a valid
explosive-use permit issued by the fire chief and a relevant blaster's license
issued by the State of Montana.
      Section 5606.5.2 Storage. Storage of small arms ammunition components
shall comply with Section 5606.5.2.2 and § 50-61-121, Mont. Code Ann.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this title or who
builds in violation of any detailed statement or specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months
or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation does not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and the
violator shall correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each twenty-four (24) hours that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty does not prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-9: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All former ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter or the fire code as adopted and amended herein are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
13-2-10: VALIDITY:
The Helena city commission hereby declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence or word of this chapter or of the fire code, as adopted and amended
herein, be declared, for any reason, to be invalid, it is the intent of the
Helena city commission that it would have passed all other portions of this
chapter independent of the elimination of any portion that may be declared
invalid.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE LIMITS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Fire Zones
13-3-1: FIRE ZONES:
For the purpose of this chapter, the entire city is hereby declared to be an is
hereby established as a fire district, and this fire district or zone is known
as fire zone 3.
(Ord. 3313, 1-8-2024)
 
