TOWN CODE
of
MANHATTAN, MONTANA
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 24-007, passed 12-11-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Manhattan, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 24-007, passed December 11, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
   American Legal Publishing
   Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE No. 25-001
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MANHATTAN AMENDING THE
MANHATTAN MUNICIPAL CODE TO REPLACE TITLE 10 REGARDING ZONING REGULATIONS
 
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Manhattan believes that updating and
revising the zoning regulations for the Town of Manhattan is in the best
interests of health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Manhattan; and
 
WHEREAS, the Town’s zoning regulations must be revised in order to comply with
state statutes, comply with the updated Manhattan City-County Growth Policy,
and to clearly set out the procedure for zoning permit and review; and
 
   WHEREAS, on November 20, 2024, and December 18, 2024, the Manhattan City-
County Planning Board reviewed the proposed updated and revised zoning
regulations; and
 
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board recommended the Town Council approve the revised
zoning regulations; and
 
WHEREAS, on May 8, 2025, the Town Council held a duly noticed public meeting
for the first reading of this Ordinance, and reviewed the proposed revisions
attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
 
WHEREAS, on June 12, 2025, The Town Council held a public hearing on the second
reading of this Ordinance and the proposed revised zoning regulations and based
on the information presented, the recommendation from the planning board, staff
input and public testimony, the Town Council finds that the revised zoning
regulations are necessary and in the best interests of the citizens of the
Town; and
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Manhattan that
the attached revised following amendment be made to the municipal code of the
Town of Manhattan, effectively amending Title 10 as attached.
 
Section 1: See attached Exhibit A.
 
Section 2: REPEALER: All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with
provisions of this ordinance, except as provided above, are hereby amended or
repealed.
 
Section 3:  EFFECTIVE DATE: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
thirty (30) days after final adoption by the Town Council of the Town of
Manhattan.
 
Section 4: SEVERABILITY: If any portion of this ordinance or the application
therefore to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions of this ordinance which may be given effect without
the invalid provisions or application and, to this end, the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable.
 
PASSED BY the Town Council and approved by the Mayor of the Town of Manhattan,
Montana, this 12 th day of June 2025.
 
___________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
 
____________________________________
Town Clerk/Treasurer   
 
Exhibit A can be found as a PDF here.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 268
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE TOWN OF MANHATTAN, MONTANA MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and the Town Council of the Town of Manhattan,
Montana, as follows:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Town
Code of the Town of Manhattan, Montana prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the Town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the Town as enacted by the Mayor and Town Council.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Town Code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official Town
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official Town Code. All ordinances of special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by the provision of the Town Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official Town Code.
   Section 4. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6. This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Council, this Town Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Town Code of Manhattan. This Town Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MANHATTAN TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the Town as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Town Code by title in any legal documents. (1977 Code § 1.04.010; amd.
2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Town Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Town Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Town Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this Town Code. Each such replacement page shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
Town Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Town Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Council. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Town
Clerk/Treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the Town Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such person
through the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Such Code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the Town and shall be returned to the office of the Town
Clerk/Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the Council. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this Town
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Town Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Town; and all special ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Town Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Town Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this Town Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Town Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Town Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Town Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Town Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
Town Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town has been
changed in the content of this Town Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
ALDERMEN: Town Council Members.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Town of Manhattan.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Town Council of the Town of Manhattan.
COUNTY: The County of Gallatin, State of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Town of
Manhattan".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MCA: Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
MAY: Is permissive.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The Town of Manhattan.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes affirmation.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Town of
Manhattan".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STATE: The State of Montana.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The Town of Manhattan, County of Gallatin, State of Montana.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1977 Code § 1.04.030; amd. 2000 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Town Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Jurisdiction
1-4-2: Municipal Infractions; Penalties
1-4-3: Judgment Constitutes Lien
1-4-4: Application Of Provisions
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-6: Civil Citations; Service And Requirements
1-4-7: Court Proceedings
1-4-8: Disposition Following Judgment
1-4-9: Appeals Following Judgment
1-4-10: Issuance Of Civil Citations Not Grounds For Further Legal Action
1-4-1: JURISDICTION 1 :
   A.   Corporate Limits: The town has jurisdiction to impose penalties and
fines within its corporate limits.
   B.   Control Over Territory Occupied By Public Works: Measures of a
regulatory or penal nature may be imposed by the town over the territory
occupied by the municipal public works, and over and along the line of
reservoirs, streams, trenches, pipes, drains, and other appurtenances used in
the construction and operation of such works.
   C.   Control Of Disturbances Of Peace: Ordinances to prevent and punish
intoxication 2 , fights, riots, loud noises, disorderly conduct, obscenity, and
acts or conduct calculated to disturb the public peace or which are offensive
to public morals may be enforced within the town and within three (3) miles of
the limits thereof.
   D.   Health And Quarantine: Health and quarantine ordinances and regulations
may be enforced in and over all places within five (5) miles of the boundaries
of the town.
   E.   Arrests: The police of the town may make arrests of persons charged
with a crime within the limits of the town and within five (5) miles thereof,
and along the line of the water supply of the town. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-4-4306, 7-32-4301, 7-32-4302, 7-13-4406.
2 2. Subject to the limits established in MCA § 53-24-106.
1-4-2: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless a different penalty is specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this code shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a municipal infraction and shall be
punished as is set forth below.
   B.   A municipal infraction is a civil offense and for a proven violation, a
civil penalty may be imposed.
   C.   For a first violation, a civil penalty of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall be imposed.
   D.   For each repeat violation, a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed.
   E.   A "repeat violation" is a recurring violation of the same section of
this code. Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
   F.   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized hereunder does not preclude the
city from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. (Ord.
07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-3: JUDGMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN:
A judgment that the defendant pay a fine or costs constitutes a lien upon the
real estate of the defendant, which lien dates from the date of the defendant's
arrest or the date a citation was issued if no arrest was made. (Ord. 07-001,
2-13-2007)
1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord. 07-
001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-6: CIVIL CITATIONS; SERVICE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any officer who is authorized by the city to enforce a municipal code
or regulation may issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal
infraction.
   B.   The citation may be served on the alleged violator by any one of the
following methods:
      1.   Personal service; or
      2.   By certified mail addressed to the defendant at the defendant's last
known mailing address, return receipt requested; or
      3.   By publication, in the manner described in rule 4D(5) of the Montana
rules of civil procedure.
   C.   A copy of the citation must be retained by the issuing officer and one
copy be sent to or filed with the clerk of the Manhattan city court.
   D.   The citation shall serve as notification that a municipal infraction
has been committed and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the defendant;
      2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation;
      3.   The location and time of the infraction;
      4.   The amount of the civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative
relief sought, or both;
      5.   The manner, location and time in which the penalty may be paid;
      6.   The time and place of court appearance; and
      7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-7: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   If the total amount of civil penalties does not exceed three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), the matter shall be tried before the Manhattan city court
judge in the same manner as a small claim. If the total amount of civil
penalties assessed exceeds three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), the matter must
be tried before a district court judge.
   B.   The town has the burden of proof that the municipal infraction occurred
and that the defendant committed the infraction. The proof must be by clear and
convincing evidence.
   C.   The court shall ensure that the defendant has received a copy of the
charges and that the defendant understands the charges. The defendant may
question all witnesses who appear for the municipality and produce evidence or
witnesses on the defendant's behalf.
   D.   The defendant may be represented by counsel of the defendant's own
choosing and at the defendant's own expense.
   E.   The defendant may answer by admitting or denying the infraction.
   F.   If a municipal infraction is proven, the court shall enter judgment
against the defendant. If the infraction is not proven, the court shall dismiss
the charges.
   G.   If the person named in the citation is shown to have been served with
the civil citation in the proper manner and, without good cause, fails to
appear in response to the citation, judgment shall be entered against the
person by the court. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-8: DISPOSITION FOLLOWING JUDGMENT:
   A.   A person against whom judgment is entered shall pay court costs and
fees as in small claims court under title 25, chapter 35, Montana Code
Annotated in addition to the penalties imposed by the court. If the action is
dismissed by the court, the town is liable for the court costs and court fees.
   B.   All penalties and forfeitures collected by the court for municipal
infractions shall be remitted to the town in the same manner as fines and
forfeitures collected for criminal offenses.
   C.   In addition to the imposition of civil penalties authorized by law
against a defendant, the town may seek alternative relief from the court in the
same action. Alternative relief may consist of any of the following:
      1.   Direct that payment of the civil penalty be suspended or deferred
under conditions imposed by the court; or
      2.   Order the defendant to abate or cease the violation; or
      3.   Authorize the town to abate or correct the violation; or
      4.   Order the town's costs for abatement or correction of the violation
be entered as a judgment against the defendant or assessed against the property
where the violation occurred, or both.
         a.   The amount of costs imposed by the city court shall not exceed
the jurisdictional amount for a money judgment in a civil action under section
3-11-103, Montana Code Annotated.
         b.   If the town seeks abatement or correction costs in excess of the
jurisdictional limit provided in subsection C4a of this section, the matter
shall be referred to district court for hearing and entry of an appropriate
order. The procedure for hearing in the district court shall be the same
procedure as that for a small claims appealed under section 25-35-803, Montana
Code Annotated.
   D.   A defendant who wilfully violates the terms of an order imposed by the
court is guilty of contempt. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-9: APPEALS FOLLOWING JUDGMENT:
   A.   The defendant or the town may file a motion for a new trial or may
appeal the decision to district court.
   B.   A factual determination made by the trial court, supported by
substantial evidence as shown on the record, is binding for purposes of appeal
relating to the violation at issue, but is not admissible or binding as to any
future violations for the same or similar ordinance provision by the same
defendant. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
1-4-10: ISSUANCE OF CIVIL CITATIONS NOT GROUNDS FOR FURTHER LEGAL ACTION:
Except for wilful or wanton misconduct on the part of the town, the issuance of
a civil citation for a municipal infraction or the ensuing court proceedings do
not provide an action for false arrest, false imprisonment, or malicious
prosecution. (Ord. 07-001, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: A seal, in circular form with the words "Town of Manhattan,
Gallatin County, Montana", on the outer edge thereof and in the interior and
center thereof, the words "Corporate Seal", shall be the Seal of the Town, to
be used in all cases in which the laws and customs of nations, the laws of the
State or the ordinances of the Town require that a seal be used by the Town in
attesting its corporate acts. (1977 Code § 1.18.010)
   B.   Custodian: The Seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Town
Clerk/Treasurer to be used by the Clerk/Treasurer or by the Mayor in the manner
provided in subsection A of this Section. (1977 Code § 1.18.020; amd. 2000
Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-2-1: Qualifications
1-6-2-2: Powers And Duties
1-6-2-3: Presiding Officer Of Council
1-6-2-4: Removal From Office
1-6-3: Council
1-6-3-1: Qualifications Of Council Members; Council Chair
1-6-3-2: Regular And Special Meetings
1-6-3-3: Quorum
1-6-3-4: Rules
1-6-3-5: Voting
1-6-3-6: General Powers
1-6-3-7: Prescribing Duties And Compensation
1-6-3-8: Obtaining Reports
1-6-3-9: Contracts
1-6-3-10: Arrests
1-6-3-11: Imposition Of Penalties
1-6-3-12: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Ordinances
1-6-4-1: Style Of Ordinances; Publication
1-6-4-2: Passage And Approval
1-6-4-3: Technical Codes
1-6-4-4: One Subject; Expressed In Title
1-6-4-5: Effective Date
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in odd numbered years,
a town election shall be held, at which the qualified electors of the town
shall elect the officers of the town whose terms of office will expire.
Members of the town council shall be elected for four (4) year, overlapping
terms of office. The elections for town council and mayor shall be conducted on
a nonpartisan basis. Council members shall be elected at large. Two (2) council
members shall be elected at large every two (2) years. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
The mayor shall be the chief executive and chief administrative officer of the
town. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-2-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be eligible for the office of mayor unless he shall be at least
twenty one (21) years old, a resident of the state for at least three (3)
years, a resident of the town or an area which has been annexed by the town for
two (2) years next preceding his election to said office and a qualified
elector pursuant to article IV, section 2 of the Montana constitution. The
mayor shall reside in the municipality during his term of office.
The mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term of office. The election
shall be at large on a nonpartisan basis. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor is the chief executive officer of the town and has power to:
   A.   Appoint Nonelective Officers: Nominate and, with the consent of the
council, appoint all nonelective officers of the town provided for by the
council, except as provided in title 7 of Montana Code Annotated.
   B.   Suspend Or Remove Nonelective Officers: Suspend and, with the consent
of the council, remove any nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or
removal the cause thereof.
   C.   Execute Ordinances; Supervise Subordinate Officers: Cause the
ordinances of the town to be executed, and supervise the discharge of official
duties by all subordinate officers.
   D.   Statement Of Affairs: Communicate to the council, at the beginning of
every session, and more often if deemed necessary, a statement of the affairs
of the town, with such recommendations as he may deem proper.
   E.   Recommendations: Recommend to the council such measures connected with
the public health, cleanliness and ornament of the town, and the improvement of
the government and finances as he deems expedient.
   F.   Ordinances And Resolutions:
      1.   Approval; Veto: Approve all ordinances and resolutions of the
council adopted by it and in case the same do not meet his approbation, to
return the same to the next regular meeting of the council, with his objections
in writing. No ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the mayor shall go into
effect unless the same be afterwards passed by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
whole number of members of the council.
      2.   Failure To Return: Veto any objectionable part of a resolution or
ordinance, and approve the other parts. If the mayor fails to return any
resolution or ordinance as aforesaid, the same takes effect without further
action.
   G.   Call Special Meetings: Call special meetings of the council, and when
so called, he must state by message the object of the meeting, and the business
of the meeting must be restricted to the object stated.
   H.   Statement Of Financial Condition: Cause to be presented, once in three
(3) months, a full and complete statement of the financial condition of the
town.
   I.   Bid At Tax Or Judicial Sales: Bid on for the town any property sold at
a tax or judicial sale, where the town is a party or interested.
   J.   Oaths: Take and administer oaths.
   K.   Request Militia: Request that the governor call out the militia to aid
the mayor in suppressing riots or other disorderly conduct, preventing and
extinguishing fires, securing the peace and safety of the town, or carrying
into effect any law or ordinance; and any person who does not obey such call
forfeits to the town a fine not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   L.   Require Exhibit Of Books: Require of any of the town officers an
exhibit of his books and papers.
   M.   Pardons: Grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses
against town ordinances, when in his judgment public justice would be thereby
subserved; but he must report all pardons granted, with the reasons therefor,
to the next council.
   N.   Other Duties: Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or
by resolution or ordinance of the council.
   O.   Jurisdiction Of Power: The mayor has such power as may be vested in him
by ordinance of the town, in and over all places within five (5) miles of the
boundaries of the town, for the purpose of enforcing the health and quarantine
ordinances and regulations thereof. (1977 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2000 Code)
   P.   Enforce Laws: Enforce laws, the town charter, ordinances and
resolutions.
   Q.   Administer Affairs Of Government: Administer the affairs of the town
government.
   R.   Carry Out Policies: Carry out policies established by the council.
   S.   Execute Bond, Notes, Contracts, Etc.: Execute bonds, notes, contracts,
and written obligations of the council, subject to the approval of the council.
   T.   Prepare Council Agenda; Preside At Council Meetings: Prepare the
council agenda, preside at council meetings and may take part in council
discussions.
   U.   Administrative Duties: The mayor may:
      1.   Appoint one or more administrative assistants to assist in the
supervision and operation of the town government, and such administrative
assistants shall be answerable to the mayor and the town council;
      2.   Appoint, with the consent of a majority of the council, all
department heads including either a clerk, treasurer or clerk/treasurer; remove
department heads; and appoint and remove all other employees;
      3.   Prepare the budget in consultation with the council and department
heads;
      4.   Exercise control and supervision of all departments and boards.
(Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-2-3: PRESIDING OFFICER OF COUNCIL:
The mayor is the presiding officer of the council, must sign the journals
thereof and all warrants on the town treasury, and decide by his vote all ties,
and has no other vote. (1977 Code § 2.08.030)
1-6-2-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The mayor may be removed from office by a finding, adopted by the affirmative
vote of three (3) council members, that the office has become vacant as
prescribed by law or by recall of the mayor by the electors of the town of
Manhattan as prescribed by law. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-3: COUNCIL:
1-6-3-1: QUALIFICATIONS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS; COUNCIL CHAIR:
   A.   Qualifications: Anyone who is eighteen (18) years of age or older, a
citizen of Montana, a resident of the town of Manhattan for a period of at
least one year immediately preceding his/her election to office and is a
qualified elector pursuant to article IV, section 2 of the Montana constitution
is eligible to hold the office of council member.
   B.   Chair Of Council: The council shall have a chair who shall be elected
by the members of the council from among their own number. The chair of the
council shall preside at council meetings when the mayor is absent, and shall
vote as other members of the council. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-3-2: REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meeting: The town council shall hold a regular meeting for the
transactions of town business on the second Thursday of each month, and such
other meetings to which the council, by order, may adjourn, or which may be
called. The council shall establish its rules of procedures and time and place
of meetings by resolution. (Ord. 10-003, 9-14-2010)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor, or at
the request of three (3) members of the council. When special meetings are
called, the clerk/treasurer shall give reasonable notice thereof, in writing,
to the mayor and all members of the council present in the town. (1977 Code §
2.12.020)
1-6-3-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the members of the council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a lesser number may meet and adjourn to any time
stated, and may compel the attendance of absent members under such rules and
penalties as the council may prescribe. Unless otherwise required by law, this
chapter, or the town's charter, the affirmative vote of a majority of the
council members present at a lawful meeting of the council shall be required
for all official actions of the council. A minimum of three (3) council members
must be present to convene a lawful meeting of the council. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-
2008)
1-6-3-4: RULES:
The council may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members for
improper conduct, and expel any member for the same by a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the members elected, and must cause to be kept a journal of the proceedings,
which must be open to inspection. (1977 Code § 2.12.040)
1-6-3-5: VOTING:
The ayes and noes must be called and recorded on the final passage of an
ordinance, bylaw, or resolution, or making any contract; the voting on the
election or appointment of any officer must be viva voce; and a majority of the
whole number of the members elected is requisite to appoint or elect an
officer, and such vote must be recorded. (1977 Code § 2.12.050)
1-6-3-6: GENERAL POWERS:
The town council has power to make and pass all bylaws, ordinances, orders, and
resolutions not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or of the
state, or of the provisions of state law, necessary for the government or
management of the affairs of the town, for the execution of the powers vested
in the body corporate, and for carrying into effect the provisions of title 7
of Montana Code Annotated. (1977 Code § 2.12.060; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-3-7: PRESCRIBING DUTIES AND COMPENSATION:
The town council has power to fix compensation, and to prescribe the duties of
all officers and other employees of the town, subject to the limitations
mentioned in Montana Code Annotated. (1977 Code § 2.12.070; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-3-8: OBTAINING REPORTS:
The town council has power to require from an officer at any time a report in
detail of the transactions in his office or any matter connected therewith.
(1977 Code § 2.12.080)
1-6-3-9: CONTRACTS:
The town council has power to make any and all contracts necessary to carry
into effect the powers granted by state law, and to provide for the manner of
executing the same. (1977 Code § 2.12.090)
1-6-3-10: ARRESTS:
The town council has power to make regulations authorizing the police of the
town to make arrests of persons charged with crimes, within the limits of the
town, within five (5) miles thereof, and along the line of water supply of the
town. (1977 Code § 2.12.100)
1-6-3-11: IMPOSITION OF PENALTIES:
The town council has power to impose fines and penalties for the violation of
any town ordinance as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this title. (1977 Code § 2.12.110; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-3-12: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The town council shall be the legislative and policy determining body
of the town. All powers of the town shall be vested in the town council except
as otherwise provided by law or the town charter and the council shall provide
for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed by law, this chapter, or the town's charter.
   B.   The council may override the mayor's veto by the affirmative vote of
three (3) members of the council. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-6-4: ORDINANCES:
1-6-4-1: STYLE OF ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION:
The style of ordinances shall be as follows: "Be it ordained by the Council of
the Town of Manhattan". All ordinances may be published or posted, as
prescribed by the council. (1977 Code § 1.12.010)
1-6-4-2: PASSAGE AND APPROVAL:
All ordinances, bylaws and resolutions must be passed by the council and
approved by the mayor, or the person acting in his stead, and must be recorded
in a book kept by the clerk/treasurer called "The Ordinance Book", and numbered
in decimal system. (1977 Code § 1.12.020)
1-6-4-3: TECHNICAL CODES:
   A.   Power To Adopt: The town council may adopt technical building, zoning,
health, electrical, fire, and plumbing codes in whole or in part by reference.
   B.   Publication Of Notice; Copy On File: At least fifteen (15) days prior
to final action by the council, notice of intent to adopt a technical code in
whole or in part by reference shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town and one copy of the code, or part to be adopted, shall
be filed with the town clerk/treasurer for inspection by the public.
   C.   Adoption By Reference: If a technical code, or part of a code, is
adopted by reference, a record in the ordinance book may be made by recording
the ordinance without setting forth the provisions of the code, or part of the
code, adopted. (1977 Code § 1.12.030; amd. 2000 Code)
1-6-4-4: ONE SUBJECT; EXPRESSED IN TITLE:
Ordinances take effect from and after their passage, except as otherwise
ordered, and no ordinance shall be passed containing more than one subject,
which shall be clearly expressed in its title, except ordinances for the
codification and revision of ordinances. (1977 Code § 1.12.040)
1-6-4-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   General Measures: No ordinance passed by the town council shall become
effective until thirty (30) days after its passage, except general
appropriation ordinances providing for the ordinary and current expenses of the
town and, excepting also emergency measures. All resolutions shall be
immediately effective unless a delayed effective date is specified. (Ord. 06-
009, 9-12-2006)
   B.   Emergency Measures: In the case of emergency measures, the emergency
must be expressed in the preamble or in the body of the measure, and the
measure must receive a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members elected. In
emergency ordinances, the resolutions shall include only such measures as are
immediately necessary for the preservation of peace, health, and safety, and
shall not include a franchise or license to a corporation or individual; any
provisions for the sale of real estate; any lease or letting of any property
for a period exceeding one year; or the purchase or sale of personal property
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in value. (1977 Code § 1.12.050)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Principal Officers
1-7-2: Elective And Appointive Officers
1-7-3: Eligibility
1-7-4: Commencement Of Term
1-7-5: Vacancy
1-7-6: Removal
1-7-7: Council May Abolish Office
1-7-8: Consolidation Of Appointive Offices
1-7-9: Salaries
1-7-10: Oath; Bond
1-7-1: PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
   A.   Executive: The executive officers of the town are the mayor, chief of
police, and such officers for the assessment, collection, auditing,
safekeeping, and disbursing of the revenue, and keeping of the records and
journals of the town, as the council may provide.
   B.   Legislative: The legislative officers are the council members.
   C.   Judicial: There may be a judicial officer termed a city judge, or a
justice of the peace may fill the office of city judge. (1977 Code § 2.04.010;
amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-2: ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Elective: The officers of the town consist of one mayor and a total of
four (4) council members who must be elected by the qualified electors of the
town as provided in chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
   B.   Appointive: There may be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the council, one clerk, who may be ex officio assessor and a member
of the council, and one treasurer, who may be ex officio tax collector, and one
police chief, who may be ex officio street commissioner, one city judge, and
any other officers necessary to carry out the provisions of the town ordinances
and state law. (1977 Code § 2.04.020; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-3: ELIGIBILITY 1 :
No person is eligible to any town office, elective or appointive, who is not a
citizen of the United States, and who has not resided in the town or an area
which has been annexed thereto for at least two (2) years immediately preceding
his election or appointment, and who is not a qualified elector thereof. (1977
Code § 2.04.030)
 
Notes
1 1. See constitution article IX, sections 7, 10, 11 for qualifications to hold
  office.
1-7-4: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM:
The terms of all officers elected at a town election are to commence on the
first Monday in January after such election. Appointive officers shall commence
their employment within ten (10) days after receiving notice of their
appointment. (1977 Code § 2.04.040; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-5: VACANCY:
   A.   Vacancy Of Office: An office becomes vacant on the happening of any of
the following events before the expiration of the term of the incumbent:
      1.   The death of the incumbent.
      2.   A determination pursuant to Montana Code Annotated title 53, chapter
21, part 1, that the incumbent is mentally ill.
      3.   The incumbent's resignation.
      4.   The incumbent's removal from office.
      5.   The incumbent's absence from the town continuously for ten (10) days
without the consent of the council.
      6.   The incumbent's open neglect or refusal to discharge duties. (1977
Code § 2.04.050; amd. 2000 Code)
      7.   The incumbent's ceasing to be a resident of the town causes a
vacancy of his/her office. This subsection does not apply to an appointed town
officer who resides outside the town limits with the approval of the town
council and within a distance of the town approved by the town council. (Ord.
08-003, 4-8-2008)
      8.   The incumbent's ceasing to discharge the duty of office for a period
of three (3) consecutive months, except when prevented by illness or when
absent from the town by permission of the town council.
      9.   The incumbent's conviction of a felony or of any offense involving
moral turpitude or a violation of official duties.
      10.   The incumbent's refusal or neglect to file an official bond within
the time prescribed.
      11.   The decision of a competent tribunal declaring void the incumbent's
election or appointment. (1977 Code § 2.04.050; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Filling Vacancies:
      1.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of a council member, the
position shall be considered open and subject to nomination and election at the
next general municipal election, except the term of office shall be limited to
the unexpired term of the person who originally created the vacancy. Pending
such election and qualification the council shall appoint, by the affirmative
vote of the majority of the remaining council members, a person possessing the
qualifications for office required by law and this chapter, within thirty (30)
days of the vacancy to hold the office until the successor is elected and
qualified.
      2.   If there are fewer than three (3) council members serving in office
at the time of an appointment to fill council vacancies is required, the mayor
shall appoint, with the written consent of each of the incumbent council
members, a person possessing the qualifications for office required by law and
this chapter within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to hold the office until
the successor is elected and qualified.
      3.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the position shall be
considered open and subject to nomination and election at the next general
municipal election, except the term of office shall be limited to the unexpired
term of the person originally creating the vacancy. Pending such election and
qualification the council shall appoint, by the affirmative vote of three (3)
council members, a person possessing the qualifications for the office required
by law and this chapter within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to hold the
office until the successor is elected and qualified. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-7-6: REMOVAL:
A council member may be removed from office by a finding, adopted by the
affirmative vote of three (3) council members, that the office has become
vacant as prescribed by law or by recall of a council member by the electors of
Manhattan, as prescribed by law. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
1-7-7: COUNCIL MAY ABOLISH OFFICE:
The town council may abolish, by majority vote of the council, any office,
except that of city judge, the appointment to which is made by the mayor with
the advice and consent of the council and may discharge any officer so
appointed. (1977 Code § 2.04.080; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-8: CONSOLIDATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICES:
The town council may, by ordinance, consolidate any of the offices, except that
of city judge, the appointment to which is made by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the council, and may require any of the elected officers to
perform any of the duties of an appointed officer whose office has been
abolished. (1977 Code § 2.04.090; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-9: SALARIES:
The council shall annually, by ordinance or resolution, fix the salaries and
compensation of elected and appointed town officers and all town employees.
(1977 Code § 2.04.100; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7-10: OATH; BOND:
   A.   Oath: Each officer of the town must take the oath of office.
   B.   Bond:
      1.   Filing Of Bond Required: Any officer that is required to give bond
shall file the same, duly approved, within ten (10) days after receiving notice
of his election or appointment; or, if no notice be received, then on or before
the date fixed for the assumption by him of the duties of the office to which
he may have been elected or appointed. (1977 Code § 2.04.110)
      2.   Town Officers And Employees: Elected or appointed town officers and
employees shall be bonded in such sums as ordinance may require. The amount for
which a town officer or employee shall be bonded shall be based on the amount
of money or property handled and the opportunity for defalcation. The town
council shall actively solicit offers on a competitive basis from available
qualified insurance or surety companies before purchasing bonds. (1977 Code §
2.04.120)
      3.   Purchase Of Bonds: The council shall purchase all surety bonds for
town officers and employees. A bond may cover an individual officer or employee
or a blanket bond may cover all officers and employees, or any group or
combination of officers and employees. (1977 Code § 2.04.130)
      4.   Bond Conditions:
         a.   Faithful Performance: The condition of every official bond must
be that the principal shall well, truly and faithfully perform all official
duties then required of him by law, and also such additional duties as may be
imposed on him by any law of the state or the town subsequently enacted, and
that he will account for and pay over and deliver to the person or officer,
entitled to receive the same, all monies or other property that may come into
his hands as such officer. The principal and sureties upon any official bond
are also in all cases liable for the neglect, default, or misconduct in office
of any deputy, clerk, or employee, appointed or employed by such principal.
         b.   Execution: All official bonds must be signed and executed by the
principal and two (2) or more sureties, or by the principal and one or more
surety companies organized as such under the laws of this state, or licensed to
do business herein. (1977 Code § 2.04.140)
ARTICLE A. TOWN CLERK/TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created
1-7A-2: Supervision
1-7A-3: Qualifications
1-7A-4: Duties And Responsibilities
1-7A-5: Terms Of Employment
1-7A-6: Selection Guidelines
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
   A.   Offices Combined: There is hereby created the office of town clerk/
treasurer. The office of town clerk is hereby abolished and combined into the
position of town clerk/treasurer. (1977 Code §§ 2.06.010, 2.06.020; amd. 2000
Code)
   B.   General Purpose: To provide a variety of general administrative,
clerical, accounting, data processing, and technical work in maintaining
records and systems of the town government. (2000 Code)
1-7A-2: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Received: Works under the general supervision of the mayor.
   B.   Exercised: Exercises supervision over office personnel and other staff,
as assigned. (2000 Code)
1-7A-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Desired Minimum Qualifications:
      1.   Education And Experience:
         a.   A bachelor's degree in public or business administration,
political science, accounting or a related field, and
         b.   Two (2) years of progressively responsible experience in fiscal
management of a town or business management, or a related field required.
         c.   Six (6) years of experience may be substituted for a bachelor's
degree.
   B.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
      1.   Working knowledge of the principles and practices of modern public
administration; extensive knowledge of office practices and procedures;
thorough knowledge of modern records management techniques, including legal
requirements for recording, retention and disclosure;
      2.   Skill in operation of listed tools and equipment; ability to
accurately record and maintain records; ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, other departments, officials
and the public; ability to communicate effectively verbally and in writing;
ability to plan, organize and supervise clerical workers and assigned staff.
(2000 Code)
1-7A-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Essential:
      1.   Manages and supervises assigned operations to achieve goals within
available resources; plans and organizes workloads and staff assignments;
trains, motivates and evaluates assigned staff; reviews progress and directs
changes as needed.
      2.   Provides direction and assists in the development of short- and
long-range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports
and recommendations; coordinates department activities with other boards,
departments and agencies as needed.
      3.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and
the general public.
      4.   Assures that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget; performs cost control activities; monitors revenues and expenditures to
assure sound fiscal control; prepares annual budget requests; assures effective
and efficient use of budgeted funds, personnel, materials, facilities, and
time.
      5.   Issues written and oral instructions; assigns duties and examines
work for exactness, neatness, and conformance to policies and procedures.
      6.   Assists subordinates in performing duties; adjusts errors and
complaints.
      7.   Serves as custodian of official town records and public documents;
performs certification and recording for the town as required on legal
documents and other records requiring such certification; seals and attests by
signature to ordinances, resolutions, and contracts, easements, deeds, bonds or
other documents requiring town certification; catalogs and files all town
records.
      8.   Attends regular and special town council meetings and records
accurate action of the proceedings.
      9.   Provides and assembles background material and related information
for decision-making purposes (i.e., agendas, reports); conducts research,
analysis, and prepares recommendations regarding proposal for programs, grants,
services, budget, surveys, equipment, etc., and distributes as requested.
      10.   Files ordinances and resolutions of the council and oversees the
codification of ordinances into this code.
      11.   Prepares and advertises bids and legal notices of public hearings
and special meetings.
      12.   Administers the issuance of municipal licenses, i.e., business and
dog, in accordance with applicable town ordinances and other regulations.
      13.   Provides public records and information to citizens, civic groups,
the media and other agencies as requested.
      14.   Attends seminars and workshops related to town clerk/treasurer's
duties and responsibilities.
      15.   Types council members' and mayor's correspondence.
      16.   Assists in the preparation of ordinances and resolutions as
directed.
      17.   Composes, types, and edits a variety of correspondence, reports,
memoranda, and other material requiring judgment as to content, accuracy, and
completeness.
      18.   Assists in the development of notices, flyers, and brochures,
newsletters, and other informational materials about programs and services.
      19.   Accepts claims for damages and other legal papers served on the
town.
      20.   Responds to inquiries from employees, customers and the general
public and refers, when necessary, to appropriate persons.
      21.   Reviews billings for correctness and accuracy and refigures bills
which have been issued to customers improperly.
      22.   Pursues collection of delinquent utility accounts, including
preparation and mailing of final notices, shut-off and turn-on orders,
establishing and monitoring payment schedules.
      23.   Processes work orders for utility disconnections, reconnections,
new orders, and other public works service requests.
      24.   Prepares and mails utility bills; maintains current customer
account files; reconciles utility billing activity with the general ledger.
      25.   Processes claims and vouchers for payment, and verification of
account codes.
      26.   Maintains a cash balance and balances cash on hand against
receipts; prepares and balances deposits.
      27.   Manages investment of the town funds in accordance with investment
policies and goals, and local, state and federal regulations. Maintains
required investment records and preparing related reports as required.
      28.   Establishes and maintains records needed for bond payments, fiscal
agent, and related redemption ledgers.
      29.   Serves as cashier including receipting of utility payments and
various other payments.
      30.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and
the general public.
      31.   Makes records available to the general public and assists in their
understanding of the documents.
      32.   Adheres to standards of confidentiality.
   B.   Special Requirements:
      1.   Must be bondable;
      2.   Have a valid state driver's license, or ability to obtain one. (2000
Code)
1-7A-5: TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Tools And Equipment Used: Typewriter; personal computer, including word
processing, spreadsheet and data base software; ten (10) key calculator; phone;
copy machine; fax machine.
   B.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently required to
sit and talk or hear, use hands to finger, handle, feel or operate objects,
tools, or controls and reach with hands and arms. The employee is occasionally
required to walk.
The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to twenty five (25) pounds.
Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the
ability to adjust focus.
   C.   Work Environment: The work environment characteristics described here
are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the
essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
The noise level in the work environment is usually quiet. (2000 Code)
1-7A-6: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
Formal application, rating of education and experience; oral interview and
reference check; job related tests may be required.
The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the various types
of work that may be performed. The omission of specific statements of duties
does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a
logical assignment to the position.
The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between the
employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs of
the employer and requirements of the job change. (2000 Code)
ARTICLE B. TOWN SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Creation Of Office
1-7B-2: Supervision
1-7B-3: Qualifications
1-7B-4: Duties And Responsibilities
1-7B-5: Terms Of Employment
1-7B-6: Selection Guidelines
1-7B-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of town superintendent.
(1977 Code § 2.14.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   General Purpose: Performs a variety of supervisory, administrative
skilled, technical, and maintenance work in the planning construction,
operation, repair, maintenance, and replacement of the town water, wastewater,
street and park facilities and systems. (2000 Code)
1-7B-2: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Received: Works under the general supervision of the mayor.
   B.   Exercised: Exercises close supervision over assigned maintenance
workers and equipment operators. (2000 Code)
1-7B-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Desired Minimum Qualifications:
      1.   Education And Experience: The above knowledge, skills, and abilities
are typically acquired through a combination of education and experience
equivalent to:
         a.   High school diploma or GED.
         b.   Three (3) or more years' experience in operating heavy equipment.
         c.   Experience with heavy manual labor preferred.
         d.   Two (2) or more years in a supervisory position or any equivalent
combination of education and experience.
   B.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
      1.   Considerable knowledge of equipment, facilities, materials, method
and procedures used in public works.
      2.   Skill in operation of the listed tools and equipment.
      3.   Ability to interpret specific chemical and biological analyses,
ability to guide, direct and motivate employees, ability to organize and
supervise the activities of various crews performing construction and
maintenance work; ability to communicate effectively, verbally and in writing;
ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
employees, other departments and the public. (2000 Code)
1-7B-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Essential:
      1.   Plans, schedules, supervises and implements construction,
maintenance, and construction activities designed to provide quality water,
sewer, street, and park service for the town. Oversees construction and
maintenance work to determine acceptability and conformance to standards.
      2.   Trains and supervises employees performing the duties of
maintenance, construction, and repair of water, sewer, street and park
facilities.
      3.   Supervises the control and use of, and assumes responsibility for,
all materials, supplies, and equipment used in the maintenance of public works
and parks to ensure that all equipment is in proper working order.
      4.   Inspects and supervises the repair of chlorine machine, booster
pumping stations, and other water system components at frequent intervals, to
ensure that all aspects of the systems are functioning properly.
      5.   Oversees the analyses of the water treatment, state testing
requirements and reporting for the safety of town water customers.
      6.   Oversees the analyses of wastewater, sludge, and effluent samples to
provide data for the efficient operation of the wastewater treatment plant.
      7.   Supervises, instructs and assists assigned crews in installation of
new infrastructure, and in repairs and replacement of present infrastructure.
      8.   Requisitions needed supplies for the departments and maintains
relating records.
      9.   Advises mayor, attorney, engineer, and other town officials in
matters relating to department activities. Provides information to the public
and individuals regarding facility problems and services.
      10.   Responds to complaints and service requests regarding public works
and parks; evaluates the situation, determines the problem and explains the
findings to the appropriate person and makes the repair if required by town
policy.
      11.   Contacts residents and business owners in the area where service
will be discontinued and of the duration of the outage.
      12.   Oversees the safety of assigned workers by instructing individuals
in proper safety procedures and monitoring work in progress.
      13.   Recommends work projects, estimates time schedules and manpower as
well as material requirements.
      14.   Determines the locations of gas, telephone, power, television,
water, and sewer lines from the appropriate sources prior to excavation.
      15.   Supervises the review of private project development plan for
compliance with codes, regulations, and standards, adequacy of application for
permits and compliance with approved plans.
      16.   Maintains regular contact with consulting engineers, construction
project engineers, town, county, state and federal agencies, professional and
technical groups and the general public.
      17.   Responds to public or other inquiries relative to department
policies and procedures. Evaluates issues and options regarding municipal
public works and parks and makes decisions.
      18.   Analyzes annual operating costs and makes recommendation for
department budgets.
      19.   Participates in short- and long-term planning of capital
improvement projects.
      20.   Adheres to standards of confidentially.
   B.   Special Requirements:
      1.   Must possess or acquire within a reasonable time a valid Montana
state driver's license with appropriate commercial driver's license
endorsement.
      2.   Must possess or acquire within a reasonable time water and
wastewater operator certificates from the state of Montana. (2000 Code)
1-7B-5: TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Tools And Equipment Used: Knowledge of operation and use of motorized
vehicles and equipment, including dump truck, pickup truck, utility truck,
sewer jet, backhoe, tamper, compactors, saws, pumps, compressors, sanders,
generators, and common hand and power tools. Skill in use of detection devices.
   B.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to
use hands to finger, handle, feel or operate objects, tools, or controls and
reach with hands and arms. The employee frequently is required to stand and
talk or hear. The employee is occasionally required to walk, sit, climb, or
balance, stoop, kneel, crouch or crawl, and smell.
   C.   Work Environment: While performing the duties of this job, the employee
works in outside weather conditions, near moving mechanical parts, exposed to
wet and/or humid conditions and vibration. The employee occasionally works in
high, precarious places exposed to fumes or airborne particles, toxic or
caustic chemicals, and with energized electrical equipment.
The noise level in the work environment can be loud in field settings and
moderately quiet in office settings. (2000 Code)
1-7B-6: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
Formal application, rating of education and experience; oral interview and
reference check; job related tests may be required.
The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the various types
of work that may be performed. The omission of specific statements of duties
does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a
logical assignment to the position.
The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between the
employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs of
the employer and requirements of the job change. (2000 Code)
ARTICLE C. TOWN CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Office Created
1-7C-2: Supervision
1-7C-3: Qualifications
1-7C-1: OFFICE CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created the position of town code enforcement officer
(code officer). The code officer shall perform a variety of routine law
enforcement and public contact work in enforcing codes and ordinances
governing:
      1.   Parking and assisting the public by providing information about
parking locations and regulations;
      2.   Animal control, licensing, animals at large, kennel license,
nuisance complaints, vicious dogs;
      3.   Garbage and refuse violations;
      4.   Zoning issues, street obstructions and encroachments, signs, weeds,
zoning permits; and
      5.   Other duties as from time to time delegated by the chief of police
and/or the town council.
   B.   The code officer shall not inspect buildings or enforce title 12 of
this code unless specifically trained and authorized to do so. (Ord. 07-005, 7-
10-2007)
1-7C-2: SUPERVISION:
The code officer works under the general supervision of the mayor and under the
close supervision of the chief of police. (Ord. 07-005, 7-10-2007)
1-7C-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Qualifications:
      1.   Requirements: The knowledge and skills necessary are typically
acquired through a combination of education and experience equivalent. The code
officer must be eighteen (18) years or older at the time of employment; must
possess, or be able to obtain by time of hire, a valid state driver's license
without record of suspension or revocation in any state; no felony convictions
or disqualifying criminal histories within the past seven (7) years and must be
able to read and write the English language.
      2.   Education And Experience:
         a.   High school diploma or GED equivalent, and
         b.   One year of general office, communications, or public contact
work; or
         c.   An equivalent combination of education and experience.
      3.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
         a.   Some knowledge of modern parking enforcement principles, animal
control procedures and civil law enforcement procedures, techniques, and
equipment.
         b.   Some skill in the operation of most of the tools and equipment
listed below.
         c.   Ability to learn the applicable laws, ordinances, and department
rules and regulations; ability to analyze situations accurately and adopt an
effective course of action; ability to interpret, apply and explain codes,
rules, regulations, policies and procedures using tact, patience and courtesy;
ability to maintain accurate records; ability to communicate effectively;
ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with peers,
supervisors and the public; ability to follow verbal and written instructions;
ability to learn the town's geography.
         d.   Knowledge and skill in operation of computer data entry and word
processing and ability to write reports of activities and observations.
         e.   Ability to communicate in a firm confident manner without being
abrasive towards the suspected violator. (Ord. 07-005, 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Wards
1-8-2: Compliance With This Title And Town Charter
1-8-1: WARDS:
The territory embraced within the corporate limits of the town shall be, and
the same is hereby divided into two (2) wards as follows: All that portion of
the town lying north and east of the right of way of the Northern Pacific
Railroad, as the same is now located, shall comprise the first ward and all
that portion of the town lying south and west of the said right of way shall
constitute the second ward. (1977 Code § 1.08.040)
1-8-2: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE AND TOWN CHARTER:
The election for officers of the town, including council members and mayor,
shall be at large and in accordance with the town charter, effective January 1,
2006, and with this title. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 9
TOWN FINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Fiscal Year
1-9-2: Borrowing Money
1-9-3: Yearly Financial Statement
1-9-4: Inactive Accounts
1-9-5: Transfer Of Funds
1-9-6: Capital Improvement Program Fund
1-9-7: Contracts
1-9-7-1: Awarding Certain Contracts; Vote By Electors
1-9-7-2: Advertisements
1-9-7-3: Emergencies
1-9-7-4: Bids
1-9-7-5: Preparation Of Contract
1-9-7-6: Public Works Contractor's Bond
1-9-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Town commences on July 1 of each year and ends on June
30 of the following year. (1977 Code § 3.04.010; amd. 2000 Code)
1-9-2: BORROWING MONEY:
The Town Council has power to contract an indebtedness on behalf of the Town,
upon the credit thereof, by borrowing money or issuing bonds for the purposes
and to the extent specified by the constitution and laws of the State 1 . (1977
Code § 3.04.020)
 
Notes
1 1. For limitations on borrowing by municipality, see constitution, article
  13, §6.
1-9-3: YEARLY FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
   A.   Contents: Within six (6) months after the close of each fiscal year,
the Town Clerk/Treasurer must make out, in duplicate, a full and complete
statement of the financial condition of the Town for such fiscal year, showing:
      1.   Indebtedness: The indebtedness of the Town, funded and floating; the
amount of each class of indebtedness; and the amount of money in the Treasury
subject to the payment of each class of indebtedness.
      2.   Taxes: The amount of money received from taxes upon real and
personal property.
      3.   Fines, Penalties And Forfeitures: The amount of money received from
fines, penalties and forfeitures.
      4.   Licenses: The amount of money received from licenses.
      5.   All Other Sources: The amount of money received from all other
sources, each source and the amount received therefrom being shown separately.
      6.   Funds: For each fund the amount of money, if any, on hand at the
beginning of such fiscal year, the amount received by and the amount paid out
during such fiscal year. The total amount of money paid out must be deducted
from the sum of money on hand at the beginning of the fiscal year and money
received during such year by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and a balance must be
struck for each fund.
      7.   Property: A concise description of all property owned by the Town
with an approximate estimate of the value thereof.
      8.   Rates Of Taxation: The rates of taxation and purposes for which
levied during such fiscal year.
      9.   Other Information: Such other information as may be, from time to
time, required by the Department of Commerce.
   B.   Form Of Statement: The forms on which such statement shall be made
shall be prescribed by the Department of Commerce.
   C.   Transmittal To Department of Commerce: The Town Clerk/Treasurer must,
not later than six (6) months following the close of each fiscal year, transmit
one copy of such statement to the Department of Commerce, and must present the
other copy thereof to the Town Council at the first regular meeting thereof in
the month of September.
   D.   Failure To Make And File Statement: If the Clerk/Treasurer shall fail
to make and file a copy of such statement with the Department of Commerce
within the time above specified, it shall be the duty of the Department of
Commerce, without delay, to examine the books, records and accounts of the Town
and to make therefrom such statement of the financial condition of the Town for
the immediately preceding fiscal year in the same manner and form as the same
should have been made by the Clerk/Treasurer. (1977 Code § 3.04.030; amd. 2000
Code)
1-9-4: INACTIVE ACCOUNTS:
Whenever the Town Council shall deem it necessary to remove inactive accounts
from its records where said accounts shall not have any further purpose, it
shall be lawful for the Council to direct the proper Town officials to file
claims against the respective inactive funds in favor of the General Fund of
the Town, after which the Council shall allow the same and cause the inactive
funds to be closed and not continued in the record of active funds. (1977 Code
§ 3.04.080)
1-9-5: TRANSFER OF FUNDS:
Money may not be transferred from one fund to another except by resolution of
the Town Council unless previously authorized by budget resolution or as
prescribed by Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-4124. (1977 Code § 3.04.050;
amd. 2000 Code)
1-9-6: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUND:
An amount not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the money received from an all-
purpose levy provided for in Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-4452, may be
placed in a separate fund, known as the Capital Improvement Program Fund, to be
earmarked for the replacement, improvement, and acquisition of property,
facilities, or equipment; provided, that a capital improvement program has been
formally adopted by resolution of the Town Council. (1977 Code § 3.04.060; amd.
2000 Code)
1-9-7: CONTRACTS 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. Power of Town to make any and all contracts necessary to carry into effect
  the powers granted by the legislature, see MCA § 7-5-4301.
1-9-7-1: AWARDING CERTAIN CONTRACTS; VOTE BY ELECTORS:
   A.   Awarding Certain Contracts: All contracts of the Town for the purchase
of any automobile, truck, or other vehicle or road machinery, or for any other
machinery, apparatus, appliances, or equipment, or for any materials or
supplies of any kind in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), or for
construction, repair, or maintenance in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) must be let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertisement
for bids.
   B.   Certain Contracts Submitted To Voters: The Council shall not let any
contract let pursuant to subsection A of this Section extending over a period
of five (5) years or more, except contracts for solid waste management systems
as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-103, which may not exceed
ten (10) years, without first submitting the question to a vote of the
taxpaying electors of the Town. (1977 Code § 3.08.010; amd. 2000 Code)
1-9-7-2: ADVERTISEMENTS:
Advertisements required by subsection 1-9-7-1A of this Chapter shall be made in
the official newspaper of the Town, if there be such official newspaper and, if
not, it shall be made in a daily newspaper of general circulation published in
the Town, if there be such, otherwise by posting in three (3) of the most
public places in the Town. Such advertisement, if by publication in a
newspaper, shall be made once each week for two (2) consecutive weeks and the
second publication shall be made not less than five (5) days nor more than
twelve (12) days before the consideration of bids. If such advertisement is
made by posting, fifteen (15) days must elapse, including the day of posting,
between the time of the posting of such advertisement and the day set for
considering bids. (1977 Code § 3.08.020)
1-9-7-3: EMERGENCIES:
The provisions of Section
1-9-7-2 of this Chapter as to advertisement for bids shall not apply upon the
happening of any emergency caused by fire, flood, explosion, storm, earthquake,
riot or insurrection, or any other similar emergency, but, in such case, the
Council may proceed in any manner which, in the judgment of three-fourths (3/4)
of the members of the Council present at the meeting, duly recorded in the
minutes of the proceedings of the Council by aye and nay vote, will best meet
the emergency and serve the public interest. Such emergency shall be declared
and recorded at length in the minutes of the proceedings of the Council at the
time the vote thereon is taken and recorded. (1977 Code § 3.08.030)
1-9-7-4: BIDS:
   A.   Opening Of Bids: The bids shall be opened by the Clerk/Treasurer in the
presence of the Council while the Council is in actual session at a regular,
adjourned, or special meeting. After the bids shall have been opened, the
contract shall be let or awarded by the Council. The award shall be made to the
lowest responsible bidder.
   B.   Council Action: The Council may postpone action as to any such contract
until the next regular meeting after bids are received, or may reject any and
all bids and as. (1977 Code § 3.08.040)
1-9-7-5: PREPARATION OF CONTRACT:
Upon receiving the statement of the awarding of a contract, it shall be the
duty of the Town Attorney to prepare a contract and bond in accordance with the
statement. All contracts shall be executed on the part of the Town by the Mayor
and attested by the Clerk/Treasurer, and together with the bond therefor shall
be filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer. (1977 Code § 3.08.050)
1-9-7-6: PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTOR'S BOND:
Whenever the Council shall contract with any person to do any work for the
Town, the Council shall require the person with whom such contract is made, to
make, execute and deliver to the Council, a good and sufficient bond with two
(2) or more sureties, or with a surety company as surety, conditioned that such
person shall faithfully perform all of the provisions of such contract, and pay
all laborers, mechanics, subcontractors and materialmen, and all persons who
shall supply such person or subcontractors with provisions, material, or
supplies for the carrying on of such work. A copy of such bond shall be filed
with the Town Clerk/Treasurer. (1977 Code § 3.08.060)
CHAPTER 10
CITY COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Established
1-10-2: Concurrent Jurisdiction
1-10-3: Exclusive Jurisdiction
1-10-4: Preliminary Examinations
1-10-5: Criminal Actions
1-10-6: Civil Actions
1-10-7: City Judge
1-10-8: Substitute Judge Called In
1-10-9: Collection Of Fines
1-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
A City Court is established in each Town. A City Judge shall establish regular
sessions of the Court. On judicial days, the court must be open for all
business, civil and criminal. On nonjudicial days, as defined in Montana Code
Statutes section 3-1-302, the Court may transact criminal business only. (1977
Code § 2.16.010; amd. 2000 Code)
1-10-2: CONCURRENT JURISDICTION:
The City Court has concurrent jurisdiction with the justice's court of all
misdemeanors and proceedings. (2000 Code)
1-10-3: EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION:
The City Court has exclusive jurisdiction:
   A.   Of all proceedings for the violation of any ordinance of the Town, both
civil and criminal, which must be prosecuted in the name of the Town;
   B.   Of any action for the collection of taxes and assessments levied for
Municipal purposes; or for the erection or improvement of public buildings; for
the laying out, or opening, or improving any public street or sidewalk, alley,
or bridge; or for the purpose of or the improvement of any public grounds; or
for any and all public improvements made or ordered by the Town within its
limits, when the amount of the tax or assessments sought to be collected
against the person assessed does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
but no lien upon the property taxed or assessed for the nonpayment of the taxes
or assessment can be foreclosed in any such action;
   C.   Of an action for the collection of money due to the Town or from the
Town to any person, when the amount sought to be collected, exclusive of
interest and costs, does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
   D.   For the breach of any official bond given by any Town officer, and for
the breach of any contract, and any action for damages in which the Town is a
party, or is in any way interested; and all forfeited recognizances given to or
for the benefit or in behalf of the Town; and upon all bonds given upon any
appeal taken from the judgment of the Court in any action above-named, where
the amount claimed, exclusive of costs, does not exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00);
   E.   For the recovery of personal property belonging to the Town, when the
value of the property (exclusive of the damages for the taking or detention)
does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); and
   F.   Of an action for the collection of any license required by any
ordinance of the Town. (1977 Code § 2.16.030; amd. 2000 Code)
1-10-4: PRELIMINARY EXAMINATIONS:
Proceedings in preliminary examinations in criminal actions in the City Court
must be had in conformity with the provisions of Montana Code Annotated section
46-10-105 and section 46-10-202. (1977 Code § 2.16.040; amd. 2000 Code)
1-10-5: CRIMINAL ACTIONS:
Proceedings in City Courts in criminal actions triable in such courts are
regulated by Montana Code Annotated title 46. (1977 Code § 2.16.050; amd. 2000
Code)
1-10-6: CIVIL ACTIONS:
The proceedings of the City Court in civil actions are regulated by Montana
Code Annotated title 25. (1977 Code § 2.16.060; amd. 2000 Code)
1-10-7: CITY JUDGE:
The presiding officer of the City Court shall be the City Judge. If none is
elected or appointed by the Town, the justice of the peace of the township in
which the Town is situated shall be the City Judge. (1977 Code § 2.16.070)
1-10-8: SUBSTITUTE JUDGE CALLED IN:
   A.   In all cases in which the Judge is a party, or in which he is
interested, or when he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity
within the sixth degree, and in case of his sickness, absence, or inability to
act, the City Judge or Mayor may call in a justice of the peace residing in the
Town to act in his place and stead. (1977 Code § 2.16.080)
   B.   The City Judge may call in a city judge, justice of the peace, or some
qualified person to act in his stead when a disqualifying affidavit is filed
against him pursuant to the Supreme Court's rules on disqualification and
substitution of judges.
   C.   A city judge of any city or a justice of the peace of any county may
sit as city judge at the City Judge's request. (2000 Code)
1-10-9: COLLECTION OF FINES:
The City Judge shall collect all fines, costs and forfeitures that accrue to
the Town from cases tried or disposed of in the City Court. He shall give a
receipt therefor to the person paying the same, and pay the collected monies to
the Town Clerk/Treasurer. (1977 Code § 2.16.090)
CHAPTER 11
ANNEXATION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Hemlock Addition
1-11-2: Annexing A Portion Of Madison Avenue
1-11-3: School District No. Three
1-11-4: Annexation Of 0.2685 Acres In Clinton Addition
1-11-5: Annexation Of Manhattan School District
1-11-6: Annexation Of 0.438 Acres And 0.567 Acres
1-11-7: Annexation Of 2.616 Acres
1-11-8: Annexation Of 2 Acres Adjacent To Taylor Park
1-11-9: Centennial Village Planned Unit Development
1-11-10: Pioneer Crossing Subdivision
1-11-11: Manhattan Orchards Subdivision
1-11-12: West Park Subdivision
1-11-13: Saddle View Subdivision
1-11-14: Sail Winds Estates Subdivision
1-11-15: Sutey Oil Planned Unit Development
1-11-16: Eagle Point Estates
1-11-1: HEMLOCK ADDITION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The following described tract of land
adjoining the limits of the town, all of which land is located in the county of
Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and made a part of
the town of Manhattan:
The following described tract of land situated within the city limits of
Manhattan, lying in the Northwest one-quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Eleven (11),
Township One (1) North, Range Three (3) East, Montana Principal Meridian,
Gallatin County, Montana, and being more particularly described by the
following metes and bounds, to wit:
Beginning at the West one-quarter (W1/4) corner of said Section Eleven (11),
Township One (1) North, Range Three (3) East, thence North 00 degrees 23'25"
East along the West line of said Section, a distance of 1166.08 feet, to the
true point of beginning of the herein described tract.
Thence North 00 degrees 23'25" East, along the West line of said Section Eleven
(11), a distance of 278.95 feet to the Southerly line of Seventh Street.
Thence North 37 degrees 49'02" East along the Southerly line of Seventh Street,
a distance of 95.57 feet to the South line of Washington Avenue.
Thence South 88 degrees 05'00" East, along the South line of Washington Avenue,
a distance of 126.70 feet, to the centerline of Hemlock Street.
Thence South 00 degrees 23'25" West, along the centerline of Hemlock Street, a
distance of 356.40 feet.
Thence North 88 degrees 05'00" West, a distance of 184.80 feet to the true
point of beginning. Said tract contains 1.46 acres, along with and subject to
any and all existing easements. The above- described tract is known and
designated as "Hemlock Addition" to the Town of Manhattan. The West One-half of
Hemlock Street is to be granted, donated and dedicated to the use of the public
forever.
      (1977 Code § 2.34.010)
   B.   Name: Said lands shall hereafter be known as Hemlock Addition to the
town of Manhattan, Montana. (1977 Code § 2.34.020)
   C.   Extending Of Boundaries: Upon the taking effect of this section, the
corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be expanded to include
the above described real property, in addition to the previously recorded
corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the clerk and recorder
of Gallatin County, Montana. (1977 Code § 2.34.030)
1-11-2: ANNEXING A PORTION OF MADISON AVENUE:
   A.   Description Of Land: The town council hereby annexes into the corporate
boundaries of the town a portion of Madison Avenue [State Secondary Highway No.
182 (3)], more particularly described as follows:
A tract of land located in the Southwest Quarter Southwest Quarter, Section 2,
and the Northwest Quarter Northwest Quarter, Section 11, Township 1 North,
Range 3 East, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest Corner of said Section 11; Thence North 00 degrees
09'09" East, a distance of 12.12 feet to the northerly right-of- way of said
Madison Avenue; Thence South 89 degrees 03'32" East, along said northerly
right- of-way, a distance of 1293.43 feet; Thence South 00 degrees 09'15" East,
a distance of 22.91 feet to the north sixteenth corner of the Northwest Quarter
of said Section 11; Thence South 00 degrees 09'15" East, a distance of 77.09
feet to a point on the southerly right-of-way of said Madison Avenue; Thence
North 89 degrees 03'32" West, along the southerly right-of-way of Madison
Avenue, a distance of 1097.12 feet; Thence along the curve to the left, having
a central angle of 26 degrees 22'20" and a radius of 417.52 feet, an arc
distance of 192.17 feet; Thence North 25 degrees 25'31" West, a distance of
24.98 feet to a point of the North-South section line; Thence North 00 degrees
09'09" East, along the North- South section line, a distance of 108.94 feet to
true point of beginning, and containing 3.038 acres.
   (1977 Code § 2.34.040)
   B.   Purpose And Date Of Annexation: It is hereby declared that the
annexation describe in subsection A of this Section was performed for the best
interests of the Town and its inhabitants. Said annexation occurred after a
public hearing held on August 6, 1985 at 7:00 p.m. in the Town Council Chambers
and after all due publication and notice requirements were completed. (1977
Code § 2.34.050)
1-11-3: SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. THREE:
   A.   Description Of Land: The Town Council hereby annexes into the corporate
boundaries of the Town the property of School District No. Three, Gallatin
County, Manhattan, Montana, situated in the Southeast One-quarter of Section
Three and the Northeast One- quarter of Section Ten, Township One North, Range
Three East, Principal Meridian, Montana, being more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the line between Sections 2 and 3, North 0 degrees 07'
West a distance of 859.5 feet from the corner of Section 2, 3, 10 and 11;
thence from said point North 86 degrees 56' West, 330.0 feet distance; thence
North 0 degrees 07' West, 479.6 feet distance; thence North 86 degrees 56'
West, 300 feet distance; thence South 0 degrees 07' East, 479.6 feet distance;
thence South 12 degrees 25' East, 404.7 feet distance; thence South 40 degrees
17' West, 400 feet distance; thence South 49 degrees 46' East, 683.53 feet
distance, thence North 40 degrees 27' East, 387.8 feet distance; thence North 0
degrees 58' East, 39.2 feet distance to a point on the line between Sections 2
and 3; thence on said Section Line North 0 degrees 07' West, 740.5 feet
distance to point of beginning. Excluding the streets and alleys, the area is
15.482 acres, more or less.
   B.   Purpose And Date Of Annexation: It is hereby declared that said
annexation is performed for the best interests of the Town and its inhabitants.
Said annexation occurred after a public hearing held on August 6, 1985, at 7:00
o'clock p.m., in the Town Council Chambers and after all due publication and
notice requirements were completed. (1977 Code § 2.34.060)
1-11-4: ANNEXATION OF 0.2685 ACRES IN CLINTON ADDITION:
The following tract of land is hereby annexed into the corporate limits of the
Town:
A tract of land located within the Northwest Quarter of Section 11, Township 1
North, Range 3 East, of the Principal Meridian of Montana, Gallatin County,
Montana, and being further described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of Block 10, Clinton Addition to the Town of
Manhattan, Montana. Thence North 88°55'32" West, a distance of 60.02 feet.
Thence North 00°16'38" West, a distance of 194.92 feet to the Southeast corner
of Block 6, Clinton Addition to the Town of Manhattan. Thence South 89°01'31"
East along the south right-of-way line of Cedar Street, a distance of 60.01
feet. Thence South 00°16'38" East along the west line of Lot 12, Block 9, of
said Clinton Addition, and the west right-of-way line of Yellowstone Avenue, a
distance of 195.02 feet to the Point of Beginning. Said tract of land being
11,698 square feet (0.2685 acres).
   (1977 Code § 2.34.070)
1-11-5: ANNEXATION OF MANHATTAN SCHOOL DISTRICT:
The following described real property is hereby annexed to the Town, subject to
and with the understanding that those utility services and paving will be
installed pursuant to the plan and report of extension of services and paving
amendment established by the Town Council:
   TRACT 1
Tract A of Certificate of Survey No. 1808, located in the SE1/4 of Section 3,
Township 1 North, Range 3 East, P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana, according to
the official plat thereof on file and of record in the office of the County
Clerk and Recorder, Gallatin County, Montana.
   TRACT 2
Fractional Lots 1, 2 and 3 of Block 1 of Altenbrand Addition to the Town of
Manhattan, lying North of what is known as the Baker Irrigation Ditch, being
the same property described in Volume 62 of Deeds at Page 150 as Fractional
Lots 14, 15 and 16 in Block 43 of Altenbrand Addition, situated in the Town of
Manhattan, County of Gallatin, State of Montana. Recording Reference: Film 134,
Page 3919.
   (1977 Code § 2.34.080)
1-11-6: ANNEXATION OF 0.438 ACRES AND 0.567 ACRES:
The following described real property is hereby annexed to the Town:
   PROPERTY 1
A 0.438 acre tract of land being the remaining portion of land deeded on Book
56, Page 341, located in the Southeast 1/4 of Section 3, Township 1 North,
Range 3 East, P.M.M., and designated as Tract 1 on Certificate of Survey Number
1795, filed of record in the office of the Clerk and Recorder of Gallatin
County, Montana.
   PROPERTY 2
A 0.567 acre tract of land being the remaining portion of land deeded on Book
38, Page 468, located in the Southeast 1 of Section 3. Township 1 North, Range
3 East, P.M.M., and designated as Tract 2 on Certificate of Survey No. 1795,
filed of record in the office of the Clerk and Recorder of Gallatin County,
Montana.
   (1977 Code § 2.34.090)
1-11-7: ANNEXATION OF 2.616 ACRES:
The following described real property is hereby annexed to the Town subject to
and with the understanding that those utility services will be installed
pursuant to the plan and report of extension of services established by the
Town Council:
A tract of land located in the Northwest 1/4, Section 11, Township 1 North,
Range 3 East, Principal Meridian Montana, Gallatin County, Montana, and being
more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the West 1/4 corner of Section 11; thence North 00°00'46" East,
along the North-South section line a distance of 182.33 feet, to the southerly
right- of-way of Eighth Street; thence North 36'48'51" East, along said
southerly right-of-way of Eighth Street, a distance of 112.16 feet, to the
southerly right-of-way of Manhattan Avenue; thence South 88°32'09" East along
the southerly right-of-way of Manhattan Avenue, a distance of 170.00 feet, to
the Northwest corner of Block 2, Clinton Addition to the Town of Manhattan;
thence South 00°10'31" East, along the westerly line of said Block 2, a
distance of 80.00 feet; thence South 87°06'05" East, along the southerly line
of said Block 2, a distance of 279.43 feet, to the westerly right-of- way of
Spruce Street; thence South 00°10'31" East, along the westerly right-of-way of
Spruce Street, a distance of 182.45 feet; thence North 89°01'31" West, a
distance of 517.14 feet, to the true point of beginning, and containing 2.616
acres. Certificate of Survey No. 845.
   (1977 Code § 2.34.100)
1-11-8: ANNEXATION OF 2 ACRES ADJACENT TO TAYLOR PARK:
The following described real property is annexed to the Town subject to any and
all existing easements:
A tract of land being two (2) acres adjacent to and East of the existing Taylor
Park located in the SE1/4 of Section 10, Township 1 North, Range 4 East,
Principal Meridian Montana, Gallatin County, Montana and being first duly
described as follows:
At a point on the North line of said SE1/4 of Section 10, which bears South
89'49'43" East, a distance of 409.78 feet from the center one-quarter corner of
said Section 10. Thence South 89'49'43" East along the said North line of the
SE1/4 of Section 10, a distance of 1242.82 feet to the point of beginning.
Thence South 89'49'43" East along the said North line of the SE1/4 of Section
10, a distance of 295.16 feet. Thence South 00'12'48" West, a distance of
295.16 feet. Thence North 89'49'43" West, a distance of 295.16 feet. Thence
North 00'12'48" East, a distance of 295.16 feet to the point of beginning. Said
tract of land being 2 acres along with and subject to any existing easements.
   (1977 Code § 2.34.110)
1-11-9: CENTENNIAL VILLAGE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
Tract 2 of Certificate of Survey 1495G, a Tract of land being a portion of
Tract B-1A of Certificate of Survey No. 1495B, situated in the W1/2 of Section
3, Township 1 North, Range 3 East, P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-016, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-10: PIONEER CROSSING SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
Tract 1 of Certificate of Survey No. 1495G, a Tract of land being a portion of
Tract B-1A of Certificate of Survey 1495B, situated in the W1/2 of Section 3,
Township 1 North, Range 3 East, P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-017, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-11: MANHATTAN ORCHARDS SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
A Tract of land being a portion of Tract A-1 of Certificate of Survey No.
2258A, Tract A-2 Remainder of Certificate of Survey No. 1495E and Amended Tract
A-1B Remainder of Certificate of Survey No. 1495H, located in the Northeast
One- Quarter and the Southeast One-Quarter of Section 3, Township 1 North,
Range 3 East and the Southeast One-Quarter of Section 34, Township 2 North,
Range 3 East, Principal Meridian Montana, Town of Manhattan, Gallatin County,
Montana, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point being the Center One-Quarter Corner of said Section 3;
thence along said Tract A-2 Remainder and said Amended Tract A-1B Remainder
through the following courses; North 01°28'34" West, a distance of 1943.78
feet; North 89°35'17" East, a distance of 90.12 feet; North 00°41'20" West, a
distance of 1581.22 feet; South 87°11'37" East, a distance of 1274.29 feet;
South 01°32'22" West, a distance of 920.30 feet; South 01°26'56" East, a
distance of 1939.74 feet; thence South 88°11'07" East, across a portion of said
Tract A-1 a distance of 600.66 feet to a point on the east line of said Tract
A-1; thence South 01°25'49" East, along the east line of said Tract A-1 a
distance of 363.30 feet to the Southeast Corner of said Tract A-1; thence North
88°39'00" West, along the south line of said Tract A-1 a distance of 600.56
feet to a point on the east line of said Tract A-2 Remainder; thence along said
Tract A-2 Remainder through the following courses; South 01°26'56" East, a
distance of 270.53 feet; South 01°26'43" East, a distance of 1330.83 feet;
North 88°24'58" West, a distance of 1334.21 feet; North 01°28'18" West, a
distance of 1323.82 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said tract of land being 150.03 acres, along with and subject to any existing
easements.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-018, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-12: WEST PARK SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
That part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 1 North, Range 3
East of P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana, described as follows:
Commencing at the Northwest Corner of said Section 10; thence easterly 090° 11'
42", assumed azimuth from north, 162.10 feet along the north line of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 10, to the point of beginning of the property
to be described; thence easterly 090° 11' 42" azimuth 1171.51 feet along said
north line; thence southerly 179° 59' 30" azimuth 728.20 feet; thence
northeasterly 037° 27' 30" azimuth 8.81 feet; thence southeasterly 127° 28' 30"
azimuth 150.00 feet; thence southwesterly 217° 27' 30" azimuth 148.00 feet;
thence northwesterly 307° 28' 30" azimuth 43.30 feet; thence southerly 179° 59'
30" azimuth 444.17 feet; thence westerly 270° 05' 10" azimuth 522.83 feet;
thence northwesterly 298° 26' 09" azimuth 539.66 feet; thence northerly 350°
56' 38" azimuth 1107.51 feet, to the point of beginning.
EXCEPT the 30 foot wide strip of land along the north end of said land, to be
used for highway purposes per Book 45 of Deeds, Page 2808. 32.0043 acres or
129,517.0 square meters. Subject to existing easements.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-019, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-13: SADDLE VIEW SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
A tract of land being the W1/2 of the NW1/4, per Film 30 Page 63, the N1/2 of
W1/2 of the NW1/4 of the SW1/4 per Film 65 Page 1230, both in Section 2, and
the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 and the N1/2 of the SE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 3, per
Document Number 2029343, excepting there from that land described in Film 12
Page 1759 (being a portion of Tract A-1, COS 2258A) all in Gallatin County
Records and all located Township 1 North, Range 3 East, P.M.M., Gallatin
County, Montana being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the NW corner of said Section 2, said NW corner being the Point of
Beginning; thence N89°49'02"E along the north line to the W1/16 corner of said
Section 2 distance of 1332.61 feet; thence S02°20'42"E along the east line to
the CW1/16 corner of said Section 2 a distance of 2604.65 feet; thence
N88°59'33"W along the south line of the NW1/4 to the C-W-W 1/64 corner of said
Section 2 a distance of 657.44 feet; thence along the east, south and west
lines of the said N1/2 of the W1/2 of NW1/4 of the SW1/4 of said Section 2 the
following three courses; 1) S02°32'27"E to the NW-SW 1/64 corner a distance of
670.31 feet; 2) N88°52'58"W to the N-S 1/64 corner a distance of 655.13 feet;
3) N02°44'43"W to the W1/4 corner a distance of 669.20 feet; thence along the
west line of the NW1/4 of said Section 2 N02°46'04"W to the S-N 1/64 corner a
distance of 628.80 feet; thence N89°28'13"W to the intersection with the east
line of said Tract A-1, COS 2258A a distance of 735.03 feet; thence N02°46'01"W
along the east line to the northeast corner of said Tract A-1a distance of
1096.15 feet; thence N89°59'30"W along the north line to the northwest corner
of said Tract A-1 a distance of 600.88 feet; thence N02°47'44"W along the west
line of the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 to the E1/16 corner of said Section 3 a distance
of 839.24 feet; thence N89°41'54"E along the north line of the NE1/4 of said
Section 3 a distance of 1335.62 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said tract being 133.045 acres along with and subject to any existing
easements.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-020, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-14: SAIL WINDS ESTATES SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
The 44.594 Acre Tract of land as shown on Certificate of Survey No. 491,
according to the plat thereof, on file and of record in the office of the Clerk
and Recorder, Gallatin County, Montana, and located in the South Half of
Section 11, Township 1 North, Range 3 East of P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana.
Comprising 44.5938 acres or 180,464.8 square meters. Subject to existing
easements.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-021, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-15: SUTEY OIL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
Tract C of Amended Subdivision Plat C-48-G as recorded at document number
165107 in the office of the Gallatin County Clerk and Recorder, Gallatin
County, Montana.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-022, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
1-11-16: EAGLE POINT ESTATES:
   A.   Description Of Property: The external boundaries of the area to be
annexed are described as:
A tract of land being Tract 4 of Certificate of Survey Number 2544, Tract A of
Certificate of Survey Number 1385, and land described in Document ID Number
2218993, situated in the NE1/4 Section 9 and the W1/2NW1/4 Section 10, T1N,
R3E, P.M.M., Gallatin County, Montana and being further described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of Tract 2A of Certificate of Survey No.
2544, thence along the West line of Section 10 S00°07'56"E a distance of 138.96
feet to the Southwest corner of Tract 3 of Certificate of Survey Number 2544,
thence along the South line of said Tract 3 S89°52'08"E a distance of 220.35
feet, thence along unplatted lands the three (3) following courses; 1)
S09°07'54"E a distance of 735.55 feet, 2) S61°41'58"E a distance of 539.62
feet, 3) S89°56'33"E a distance of 522.54 feet, thence along the West line of
the Amended Subdivision Plat of Block 71, Fabrick Addition, Milwaukee Avenue
and Tract 5 of Certificate of Survey Number 1350, respectively, S00°04'48"E a
distance of 395.60 feet, thence along unplatted lands the two (2) following
courses; 1) N61°39'38"W a distance of 22.74 feet, 2) S00°04'48"E a distance of
436.97 feet to the Northeast corner of Tract 5 of Certificate of Survey Number
2544, thence along the North and West line of said Tract 5 N89°51'25"W a
distance of 350.00 feet and S00°04'48"E a distance of 520.00 feet to a point on
the East-west mid-section line of Section 10, a point in the center of
Woodenshoe Lane, thence along said mid-section line and in and along the
centerline of Woodenshoe Lane N89°51'25"W a distance of 266.06 feet to a point
on the North right- of-way line of U.S. Interstate 90, thence along said right-
of-way line the five (5) following courses; 1) Along a 4474.00 foot radius
curve to the right a distance of 640.64 feet (Radial bearing N47°31'22"E), 2)
N34°16'23"W a distance of 732.31 feet, 3) Along a 4694.00 foot radius curve to
the left a distance of 1601.01 feet, 4) N41°54'34"W a distance of 175.54 feet,
5) N61°41'58"W a distance of 97.89 feet to the Southwest corner of Tract 1A of
Certificate of Survey Number 2544, thence along said Tract 1A the two (2)
following courses; 1) N89°32'01"E a distance of 704.66 feet, 2) N00°28'30"W a
distance of 250.00 feet to a point on the South line of Section 4, thence along
the South line of Section 4 and in and along the centerline of Poelman Lane
N89°32'01"E a distance of 401.92 feet to the Northwest corner of Tract 2A of
Certificate of Survey number 2544, thence along said Tract 2A the two (2)
following courses; 1) S00°07'56"E a distance of 228.54 feet, 2) N89°32'01"E a
distance of 315.00 feet to the Point of Beginning. Said tract being 61.218
Acres, along with and subject to any existing easements.
   B.   Extension Of Municipal Boundaries: The tract of land described above
and adjoining the limits of the town of Manhattan, all of which land is located
in the county of Gallatin, state of Montana, is hereby added to, taken into and
made part of the town of Manhattan pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections
7-2-4711 and 4712. The corporate limits and boundary lines of the town shall be
expanded to include the above described real property, in addition to the
previously recorded corporate limits on file and of record in the office of the
clerk and recorder of Gallatin County, Montana. (Ord. 06-023, 12-12-2006, eff.
12-13-2006)
CHAPTER 12
TOWN CHARTER
SECTION:
1-12-1: Adopted
1-12-2: Severability Clause
1-12-1: ADOPTED:
The citizens of Manhattan adopted the town charter pursuant to a duly qualified
election on November 8, 2005. The town charter became effective on January 1,
2006. The town charter is hereby adopted by the town and any provisions of this
code that are inconsistent with the provisions of the charter are hereby
repealed. The charter may only be amended as prescribed by law. (Ord. 08-003,
4-8-2008)
1-12-2: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any provision of the charter is held invalid, the other provisions of the
charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the charter, or
any part of its provisions, to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
application of the charter and its provisions to other persons or circumstance
shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 08-003, 4-8-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITY-COUNTY PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Authority
2-1-3: Staff Planner
2-1-1: CREATED:
The Town Council does hereby create a City-County Planning Board. (Res. 265,
10-4-1977)
2-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The Town Council does hereby delegate to the City-County Planning Board the
responsibility to accept applications for subdivision approval, advertise and
conduct public hearings on preliminary plats, and submit, in writing, its
recommendations to the Town Council to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
a subdivision proposal reviewed under the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act
1 . (Ord. 236, 12-3-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-3-101 et seq.
2-1-3: STAFF PLANNER:
   A.   Definition: "Staff Planner" shall be defined as a planning person hired
by the Town or the County, whichever is pertinent at the time.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Advice: The Staff Planner shall advise the Town Council if
subdivision plats meet all State and local requirements.
      2.   Technical Assistance: The Staff Planner will also provide technical
assistance to the City-County Planning Board and the Town Council regarding all
aspects of the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act. (Ord. 236, 12-3-1996)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created
2-2-2: Authority
2-2-3: Term
2-2-4: Qualifications
2-2-5: Compensation
2-2-1: CREATED:
The town council does hereby create a police commission. (Ord. 283, 10-1-2002)
2-2-2: AUTHORITY:
The town council does hereby delegate to the police commission the authority
and responsibility to perform its duties and conduct such examinations as set
out in, but not limited to, sections 7-32-4108, 4111, 4154, 4155, Montana Code
Annotated. (Ord. 283, 10-1-2002)
2-2-3: TERM:
The appointees to the police commission shall hold office for three (3) years,
and one member must be appointed annually at the first regular meeting of the
town council meeting in May of each year, except as set forth in section 7-32-
4152, Montana Code Annotated. The initial commission shall be appointed for
one, two (2) and three (3) year terms. (Ord. 283, 10-1-2002)
2-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members of the police commission shall be nominated by the mayor and approved
by the town council. Members shall be residents of the town of Manhattan and
shall have the qualifications required by law to hold a municipal office, as
set forth in section
1-6-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 283, 10-1-2002)
2-2-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the police commission shall serve without compensation. (Ord.
283, 10-1-2002)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Scope
3-1-2: Unlawful Activities
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Application
3-1-5: Submission Of Application
3-1-6: Examination Of Applicant
3-1-7: Grounds For Issuance Or Denial
3-1-8: License Fees
3-1-9: Term
3-1-10: Inspection
3-1-11: Control Of License By Council; Assignability
3-1-12: Separate License Required
3-1-13: Renewal
3-1-14: Record Of Licenses
3-1-15: Suspension Or Revocation
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Chapter apply to the issuance of every kind of license
or permit authorized by the Town. Whenever a provision of a particular
licensing ordinance shall be deemed in conflict with any phrase or section of
this Chapter, the provision of the particular licensing ordinance shall
prevail. (1977 Code § 5.04.010)
3-1-2: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
No provision contained in this Title shall be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession, or entertainment
prohibited by any law of the United States, of the State, or prohibited by the
provisions of this Code or other ordinance of the Town. (1977 Code § 5.04.020)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate, transact, engage in, or carry on within the
Town any industries, trades, pursuits, professions, vocations, or businesses
without first applying for and obtaining a Town license. (1977 Code § 5.04.030)
3-1-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Every person desiring to conduct any business or other activity
in the Town for which a license is required must file with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, on a form to be provided by the Clerk/Treasurer, an application for
license in writing.
   B.   Fee 1 : The fee for such license must accompany the application.
   C.   Signature; Contents: The application shall be subscribed and sworn to
by the applicant before an officer authorized to take oaths, and shall set
forth:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   His place of permanent residence.
      3.   His local business address, if any.
      4.   Date of his arrival in the town.
      5.   City or county from which last license, if any, was received.
      6.   Description of the activity to be licensed and its location.
      7.   Whether the applicant shall act as principal or agent.
      8.   If acting as agent, the name and place of business of the principal
or employer.
      9.   If the applicant is an agent, the principal's acknowledgment of such
agency must accompany the application. (1977 Code § 5.04.040)
   D.   Misrepresentation: No person shall wilfully misrepresent any material
fact in any license application made by him. (1977 Code § 5.04.190)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-1-8B of this Chapter for fees.
3-1-5: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
On receipt of any application for a license or other authorization to do
business, the clerk/treasurer shall submit the same to the town council at its
next regular or special session. (1977 Code § 5.04.050)
3-1-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Appearance Before Council: The town council may notify or cause to be
notified, in writing, the applicant to appear before the council for the
purpose of further inquiry into the facts and circumstances of the application
and the fitness of the applicant to be licensed.
   B.   Investigation: The council may direct the chief of police or other town
officer to investigate the facts stated in each license application, the
qualifications and character of the applicant and the officers and owners of
the firm to be licensed. (1977 Code § 5.04.060)
3-1-7: GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Character Of Applicant: If the council shall determine that any
applicant for a license or any person interested in the ownership of any
business sought to be licensed are persons of such character that the business
to be licensed may be operated in such manner as to be detrimental to the
public health, peace, morals, or general welfare of the town, such application
shall be denied; otherwise, the application shall be granted.
   B.   Building Or Premises: If the town council shall find, after
investigation, that the premises or buildings of the business to be operated
under the license are in unsafe condition or are constructed or operated in
such a way as to be detrimental to the public welfare, the council shall deny
the application for license. (1977 Code § 5.04.070)
3-1-8: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Clerk/Treasurer To Collect Fees: The town clerk/treasurer shall be
charged with the collection of the fees for the licenses required by this
title. (1977 Code § 5.04.090)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Annual Fee: All established places of business operating and doing
business within the town limits or the area established by law to be within the
licensing area of an incorporated city or town, with the exception of bars,
taverns, lounges, or other similar places of business engaged in retailing
alcoholic beverages either by the drink or package, and also tent shows,
carnivals, or other traveling forms of entertainment, shall pay to the town
clerk/treasurer on behalf of the town, a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per annum.
      2.   Franchises: All franchises, including, but not limited to,
Northwestern Energy, US West Communications and Montana Rail Link, shall pay a
business fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum.
      3.   Due Date; Penalty:
         a.   Established Businesses: Such license fees for established places
of business shall be due and payable January 1 of each year and shall be
subject to a penalty of twenty dollars ($20.00) if not paid prior to March 15
of the year due.
         b.   New Businesses: The license fee for a new business is due and
payable on the opening of such business and subject to a twenty dollar ($20.00)
penalty if not paid within thirty (30) days. The imposition of such penalty
shall not relieve the place of business or the owner of such from prosecution.
(Ord. 06-011, 10-10-2006)
   C.   Disposition Of Fee Upon Denial Of Application: If the license
application shall be denied, the license fee that may have accompanied the
application shall be returned to the applicant. (1977 Code § 5.04.100)
3-1-9: TERM:
Unless the council shall provide otherwise, either by ordinance or in an
individual license, the term of every license issued under authority of this
title shall be for one year, and shall commence January 1 and expire December
31. (1977 Code § 5.04.080)
3-1-10: INSPECTION:
   A.   Licensee Subject To Inspection: Any business licensed under this title
shall at all times be subject to inspection by officials of the Town. The
licensee and/or employees of such licensee shall at all times permit any Town
official to enter the premises where such licensed business is conducted for
inspection of such premises and the activity under license.
   B.   Refusal Of Inspection: It is unlawful for any person to restrict or
obstruct any Town official in the exercise of the right of entry to a licensed
premises or the inspection of any licensed activity. (1977 Code § 5.04.110)
3-1-11: CONTROL OF LICENSE BY COUNCIL; ASSIGNABILITY:
   A.   Control Of License: Nothing contained in this Title shall be construed
to create any vested right in any person to the assignment, renewal,
reissuance, or continuance of any license. The right thereto shall be always
vested in the Town Council.
   B.   Assignability: No licensee shall assign any license granted by the
Town, unless authorized by the Council, in writing, or by ordinance. (1977 Code
§ 5.04.120)
3-1-12: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided, no license issued by the Council shall cover more
than one classification of license or more than one trade, business,
occupation, pursuit, vocation, or entertainment. (1977 Code § 5.04.150)
3-1-13: RENEWAL:
Application for renewal of a license shall be made in the same manner as
application for the original license. (1977 Code § 5.04.130)
3-1-14: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses granted by the
Town, showing for each license the date issued, to whom issued, the amount
collected, the date of expiration, the premises described therein, change of
location, or transfer, if any, and any other pertinent fact with reference
thereto. (1977 Code § 5.04.140)
3-1-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds:
      1.   Code Violation; Detrimental To Public: Whenever the Town Council
determines that any licensee is conducting the activity licensed in a manner
which violates this Code or any ordinance or regulation of the Town, or
operating the business licensed in any manner detrimental to the public health,
morals, or welfare, the Council may order the suspension or revocation of the
license.
      2.   The Council may revoke or suspend any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement or for a violation of any Federal or State
statute. (1977 Code § 5.04.170)
   B.   Procedure: Before considering the suspension or revocation of any
license issued under this Title, the Council shall give the licensee an
opportunity to appear before it and be heard in relation to any matter under
investigation. The licensee shall be notified, in writing, of the time and
place of the hearing or investigation. (1977 Code § 5.04.180)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 5.04.200)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR, BEER AND/OR WINE RETAILERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Retail Liquor License Required
3-2-3: State License
3-2-4: Application
3-2-5: Liquor Retailer's Fee
3-2-6: Beer And/Or Wine Retailer's Fee
3-2-7: Full Service Retailer's Fee
3-2-8: Transfer Of License
3-2-9: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt or hops, or of any other similar products in
drinkable water containing not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by
weight.
BOARD: The liquor control board of the state, which is officially designated as
the Montana liquor control board.
LIQUOR OR LIQUORS: Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt or other
liquor which contains more than one percent (1%) alcohol by weight, but shall
not mean or include "beer" as that term is defined in this section.
RETAILER: Any person, club, association, fraternal organization, partnership,
or any other kind of organization, engaged in the sale and distribution of
either liquor, beer and/or wine, either on draught or in bottles or cans.
SALE OR SELL: Include exchange, barter, and traffic. These terms also include
the selling or supplying or distributing, by any means whatsoever, of liquor or
of any liquid known or described as beer or nearbeer and/or wine, or by any
name whatever commonly used to describe malt or brewed liquor, by any
partnership or by any society, association, or club, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, and whether heretofore, or hereafter formed or unincorporated,
to any person, partnership, society, association or club or to any member
thereof. (1977 Code § 5.36.010; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-2: RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED:
No retailer shall sell liquor in the town unless he shall possess a valid and
current license issued by the town. (1977 Code § 5.36.030)
3-2-3: STATE LICENSE:
   A.   State License Required: No liquor license required by this chapter for
any retailer shall be issued until the applicant therefor has been granted a
license by the Montana state liquor control board.
   B.   Revocation, Withdrawal Or Suspension Of State Licenses: Any revocation,
withdrawal, or suspension of any license granted by the state pursuant to the
Montana retail liquor license act, shall at once and simultaneously therewith
operate also as a revocation, withdrawal, or suspension, as the case may be, of
any license granted by the town under the provisions of this chapter. (1977
Code § 5.36.040)
3-2-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Information: The application of a retailer for a license to
sell liquor within the town shall specify the location by street and number of
the premises where the business is to be carried on, the names of the persons
conducting the business, whether individually or as a fraternal organization,
partnership, club, or other organization, and provide such other information as
the town council shall require.
   B.   Application Form: The application form shall be furnished by the town,
and may be substantially in the following form:
   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
The undersigned hereby makes application for a license to sell liquor as a
                                    . Trade name to be used
                         . My name is                       , sex      , age
     . I am a holder of a valid license from the State of Montana, under the
Montana Retail Liquor License Act, as a                                  , and
it expires                                         . My residence is
                                      . I have resided there
                                . The location where I propose to carry on
business under said license hereby applied for is
                                , and I understand that the license hereby
applied for, if granted, shall not be good for any other location in this Town
without the consent and permission of the Town Council first had and obtained
after application.
The fee of $          is tendered herewith.
                                          
   (Signature of Applicant)
(1977 Code § 5.36.050)
3-2-5: LIQUOR RETAILER'S FEE:
The fee for a town license to sell liquor shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year. (1977 Code § 5.36.060)
3-2-6: BEER AND/OR WINE RETAILER'S FEE:
No retailer who is licensed by the state to sell beer and/or wine shall sell
beer and/or wine within the town unless such retailer has paid an annual fee to
the town in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fee shall be
collected by the town clerk/treasurer, who shall give a receipt therefor. (1977
Code § 5.36.020; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-7: FULL SERVICE RETAILER'S FEE:
No retailer who is licensed by the state to sell liquor, beer and/or wine shall
sell liquor, beer and/or wine unless such retailer has paid an annual fee to
the town in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 282, 9-10-2002)
3-2-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   State Approval Required: No license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be transferable except as provided in the Montana retail liquor
license act, and then only after such transfer is approved by the town council
after written application for permission to transfer.
   B.   Application: Such application shall be in writing, state the name, age
and sex of the proposed transferee, his residence and length of time he has
resided there.
   C.   Fee: The town clerk/treasurer shall charge and collect a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to cover the cost of all proceedings in connection with such
transfer. (1977 Code § 5.36.070; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 282, 9-10-2002)
3-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (1977 Code § 5.36.080; amd. Ord. 282, 9-10-2002)
CHAPTER 3
TAXICABS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENT DEVICES, JUKEBOXES
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 5
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 6
PAWNBROKERS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 7
JUNK DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 8
SECONDHAND STORES
(Rep. by Ord. 06-012, 10-10-2006)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required
3-9-2: Application For License
3-9-3: Grant Of License
3-9-4: License Not Exclusive
3-9-5: License Terms; Fee
3-9-6: Conditions On Street Occupancy
3-9-7: Safety Requirements
3-9-8: Indemnification Of Town
3-9-9: Person Designated As Agent
3-9-10: Operational Standards
3-9-11: Transfer Of License
3-9-12: Procedure Upon Termination
3-9-13: Violations
3-9-14: Penalties
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a cable television system
within the town of Manhattan, Montana, without first having obtained a license
for such purpose. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license to engage in the business of operating a cable
television system shall be made by filing an application with the town clerk.
The application shall set forth the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant; and should the applicant be a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation.
   B.   An outline of the general construction and operating plans of the
applicant.
   C.   A proposed schedule for the construction of the system and the proposed
date of the commencement of the service.
   D.   A statement of the policy of the applicant concerning the extension of
the system within the license area. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-3: GRANT OF LICENSE:
The town council shall issue to a qualified applicant a license granting unto
the licensee the right and privilege to erect, construct, install, repair,
replace, reconstruct, maintain, and operate in, on, over, under, upon, across
and along any public street, public way, and public place now laid out or
dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the license
area, such poles, wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other property as may be necessary and
appurtenant to the cable television system. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-4: LICENSE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The rights, privileges and license to engage in the business of operating a
cable television system in the town provided for in this chapter shall not be
exclusive and the town has the right to grant similar rights, privileges and
licenses to others. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-5: LICENSE TERMS; FEE:
The term of such license shall be twenty (20) years, and the annual license fee
shall be five percent (5%) of the gross revenue which the licensee has received
within the town limits, due annually and payable within ninety (90) days after
the close of the preceding calendar year. The licensee shall provide an annual
summary report showing the gross revenue received within the town limits during
the preceding year on or before January 15 each year. If such license is
granted after January 15 in any year, the said license fee shall be prorated
for the first year. As used herein, "gross revenue" shall mean any revenue
received by the licensee from the operation of the cable system to provide
cable services in the service area, provided, however, that such phrase shall
not include: a) any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability collected
by the licensee from subscribers for pass-through to a government agency,
including the FCC user fee; and b) unrecovered bad debt. The town reserves the
right to review and modify said license fee from time to time. (Ord. 267, 9-5-
2000)
3-9-6: CONDITIONS ON STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the licensee within the town shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of the streets, alleys, and other public ways
and places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who join or abut any of the said streets,
alleys, or other public ways and places.
   B.   In case of disturbance in the street, sidewalk, alley, public way,
grass or paved areas of any other public or private property, the licensee
shall, at its own expense and in the manner approved by the director of public
works of the town, replace and restore said street, sidewalk, alley, public
way, grass or paved area or any other public or private property in as good as
condition as before the work involving such disturbance was done.
   C.   If at any time the town shall lawfully elect to alter or change the
grade of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, the licensee shall,
upon reasonable notice in writing from the town, remove, relay and relocate its
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other fixtures at its
own expense.
   D.   Any fixture placed in any public way by the licensee shall be placed in
such a manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on such public way.
(Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-7: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The licensee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances
to the public.
   B.   The licensee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, and fixtures
and other equipment in accordance with requirements of the ordinances, code and
regulations of the town, and in such a manner that they will not interfere with
any installation of the town or public utilities serving the town.
   C.   All structures and lines, equipment and connections in, over, under and
on the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways or places of the town,
wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept and maintained in a
safe, suitable, substantial condition and in good order and repair. (Ord. 267,
9-5-2000)
3-9-8: INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN:
The licensee shall at all times protect and hold harmless the town from all
claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind and
description, including investigation costs, court costs and attorney fees,
which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any person or persons arising
out of the negligence of the licensee in the ownership, construction, repair,
replacement, maintenance and operation of the cable television system. The town
shall give the licensee prompt written notice of any such claims filed against
it. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-9: PERSON DESIGNATED AS AGENT:
The licensee shall file with the town clerk the name, address, and telephone
number of one or more persons who shall be its agent or agents to receive
communications from the town or subscribers of the licensee. (Ord. 267, 9-5-
2000)
3-9-10: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The licensee shall operate and maintain its cable television system in full
compliance with whatever technical standards are lawfully prescribed by the
statutes, laws, and administrative rules of the United States and the state of
Montana. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license granted hereunder is transferable by the licensee upon application to
the town council, and approval of such transfer shall not be withheld by the
town council except for good cause shown after public hearing at which both the
licensee and the proposed transferee shall have the right to be heard. (Ord.
267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-12: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
If any license granted hereunder is not renewed by the licensee or if the
license is terminated for any other reason, the licensee shall at its own
expense remove all of its facilities located on public ways, leaving the said
public ways in a safe condition, to conform to the existing condition of said
public ways. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-13: VIOLATIONS:
From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person
to construct, install or maintain within the town any equipment or facilities
for distributing any television signals or radio signals through a cable
television system, unless a license authorizing such use of such street or
property or area has first been obtained, and unless such license is in full
force and effect. (Ord. 267, 9-5-2000)
3-9-14: PENALTIES:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 10
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Requirements To Obtain An Operator's License
3-10-2: List Of Employees Working At Business
3-10-3: Issuance Of Operator's License
3-10-4: Fees
3-10-5: Inspection
3-10-6: Suspension
3-10-7: Revocation
3-10-8: Judicial Review
3-10-9: Transferring Of License Prohibited
3-10-10: Special Location Restrictions
3-10-11: Nonconforming Uses; Amortization
3-10-12: Adult Motels
3-10-13: Escort Agencies
3-10-14: Nude Model Studios
3-10-15: Public Nudity
3-10-16: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And Videos
3-10-17: Exterior Portions Of Adult Oriented Businesses
3-10-18: Signage
3-10-19: Sale, Use Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-10-20: Persons Younger Than Eighteen Prohibited From Entry; Attendant
Required
3-10-21: Exemptions
3-10-22: Notices
3-10-23: Injunction
3-10-24: Severability
3-10-25: Conflicting Ordinances Repealed
3-10-26: Effective Date
3-10-1: REQUIREMENTS TO OBTAIN AN OPERATOR'S LICENSE:
   A.   An application for an adult oriented business operator's license must
be made in the manner set forth in title 10, chapter 11 of this code for
obtaining a conditional use permit, and as further described herein.
Applications may be picked up at the Manhattan police department, and completed
applications are also to be turned in at the Manhattan police department.
   B.   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information reasonably necessary (including fingerprints)
to enable the town to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to
supplement their employee list, as set forth herein, with new information
received subsequent to the date the application was deemed completed.
   C.   If a person who wishes to own or operate an adult oriented business is
an individual, he must sign the application for an operator's license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate an adult oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or
greater interest in the business must sign the application for an operator's
license as applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of an adult oriented
business or as the entity that wishes to operate such a business, all corporate
officers and directors must sign the application for an operator's license as
applicant.
   D.   The applicant must detail whether they have had a previous license
under this chapter or other similar adult oriented business ordinance from
another town or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the adult oriented business for which the business license was
denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant is or has been a partner in a partnership
or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or
was licensed under an adult oriented business ordinance whose business license
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the adult oriented business for which the business license was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
   E.   The applicant must disclose any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar adult oriented business ordinance from another town or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed businesses.
   F.   The applicant must pick a single classification of license for which
the applicant is filing.
   G.   The applicant must have a telephone number of the establishment.
   H.   The applicant will disclose the address and legal description of the
tract of land on which the establishment is to be located.
   I.   If the establishment is in operation, the applicant must give the date
on which the owner(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license
is sought, and the date on which the establishment began operations as an adult
oriented business at the location for which the business license is sought.
   J.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected start up date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
business license) must be given. If the expected start up date is to be more
than ten (10) days following the date of issuance of the business license, then
a detailed explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other
cause of the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and
plan for accomplishing the same must be given.
   K.   If an applicant wishes to operate an adult oriented business, other
than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing room or
booth of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, films,
videocassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements.
   L.   Each application for an operator's license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee in full;
      2.   If the establishment is a state of Montana corporation, a certified
copy of the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      4.   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the state of Montana, a certified copy of the certificate of limited
partnership, together with all amendments thereto;
      5.   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      6.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      7.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in subsection L6 of this section is not also the owner of the adult oriented
business, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease
option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right
of the owner(s) or proposed owner(s) of the adult oriented business to have or
obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the adult oriented business;
      8.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing adult oriented
businesses within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the property to be
certified; and the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school, public park, residential or recreation area, within four
hundred fifty feet (450') of the property to be certified. For purposes of this
section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
      9.   Any of subsections L2 through L8 of this section shall not be
required for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents
previously furnished to the town council with the original application or
previous renewals thereof remain correct and current. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-2: LIST OF EMPLOYEES WORKING AT BUSINESS:
   A.   Operators of adult oriented businesses must maintain a list of all
employees at their business. Such list shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including "state" names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color and eye color;
      4.   Present business address and telephone number;
      5.   Date, issuing state and number of photo driver's license, or other
state issued identification card information;
      6.   Social security number;
      7.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      8.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation and suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      9.   A statement whether the applicant has, within the past five (5)
years, been convicted or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a "specified
criminal activity" as defined herein and, if so, the "specified criminal
activity" involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   B.   The list of employees of adult oriented businesses shall be provided to
the Manhattan police department in such a manner that the police department is
always in possession of a current list. Once an initial list has been provided
to the police department, all operators of adult oriented businesses will
provide an update to the list upon the hiring of any new employees. Such update
will occur by the operator turning in an updated list to the police department
within one day of the hiring of a new employee.
The personal information provided in this subsection shall be confidential and
shall not be disclosed to the public except to the extent required by state or
federal law.
   C.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining an
adult oriented business operator license. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-3: ISSUANCE OF OPERATOR'S LICENSE:
   A.   Processing Of Applications For Operator's License:
      1.   If application is made for an adult oriented business operator's
license, the Manhattan police department shall take action on the application
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the completed application. The police
department shall issue a license to an applicant unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
         a.   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         b.   An applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
         c.   An applicant has been denied a license by the town to operate an
adult oriented business within the preceding twelve (12) months, or whose
license to operate an adult oriented business has been revoked within the
preceding twelve (12) months;
         d.   An applicant is overdue in payment to the town for taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to the
adult oriented business for which license is sought, or the property on which
the adult oriented business is located or will be located;
         e.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
activity" as defined herein;
         f.   The premises to be used for the adult oriented business have not
been approved by the police department as being in compliance with applicable
laws and ordinances, if such approval is required under other sections of this
chapter;
         g.   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid; or
         h.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   A license issued pursuant to this section, if granted, shall state
on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, the address of the adult oriented business and the
classification for which the license is issued. The license shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
      3.   As part of the application process, the Manhattan police department
will complete an inspection of the premises where the adult business is
proposed to operate in order to ensure compliance with all provisions of this
chapter.
      4.   An adult oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification.
      5.   In the event that the Manhattan police department determines that an
applicant is not eligible for an adult oriented operator's license, the
applicant shall be given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial.
      6.   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Manhattan police
department regarding a denial of the adult oriented business operator's license
by filing a written notice of appeal with the town clerk/treasurer within ten
(10) days after service of notice upon the applicant of the decision. The
notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum or other writing setting
out fully the grounds for such appeal and all arguments in support thereof.
After reviewing such memoranda, if any, and exhibits submitted, the town
council shall vote either to uphold or overrule the decision. Such vote shall
be taken at the next regularly scheduled town council meeting, providing that
the town council has had sufficient time to examine the appeal and any
memoranda or other writings prior to the meeting. The status quo immediately
prior to denial of the license shall be maintained during the pendency of the
appeal. Judicial review of the town council's decision may be made pursuant to
section
3-10-8 of this chapter. The status quo shall continue to be maintained during
the pendency of judicial review.
      7.   A license issued pursuant to subsection A1 of this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the Manhattan police department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "specified criminal activity" as defined in subsection 10-1-5C
of this code, or committed any act during the existence of the previous license
which would be grounds to deny the initial license application. The decision
whether to renew a license shall be made within forty five (45) days of the
completed application. The renewal of a license shall be subject to the fee as
set forth in section
3-10-4 of this chapter.
      8.   Annual renewal shall mean that such license fees for established
places of business shall be due and payable January 1 of each year, and shall
be subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the fee due if not paid prior
to March 15 of the year due. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-4: FEES:
The initial fee for an adult oriented business operator's license shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The annual fee for an adult oriented business
operator's license renewal is five hundred dollars ($500.00). These fees shall
be used to pay for the cost of administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-5: INSPECTION:
   A.   The town shall regularly inspect the premises of the adult oriented
business in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. An
applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department and
other relevant town officials to inspect the premises at any time the
establishment is open for business. Such inspection shall be limited to visual
assessment of the activities conducted in areas to which patrons have access or
are allowed access; to requests for inspection of the licenses required under
this chapter; and to requests for identification of those individuals who
reasonably appear to be under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   B.   A person who operates an adult oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a municipal infraction if he/she refuses to promptly permit
any such lawful inspection of the premises and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-6: SUSPENSION:
Temporary suspension of a license to operate an adult oriented business may
occur based upon violations of this chapter. On determining that grounds exist
for a suspension, the town shall furnish written notice of the proposed
suspension to the license holder. Such notice shall set forth the time and
place of a suspension hearing before the town council, the grounds for the
proposing of such suspension, the pertinent town code sections involved, and a
brief statement of the factual matters in support thereof. The notice shall be
mailed to the last known address of the license holder or shall be delivered to
the license holder personally, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing
date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with procedures established for
regular meetings of the town council. At the close of the hearing, the town
council may deny the suspension of the license, suspend the license for a
period not to exceed six (6) months, or it may take other appropriate action,
including the imposition of additional conditions. Finally, it may decide that
permanent revocation of the license is warranted, in which case the procedures
set out in section
3-10-7 of this chapter will be followed. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-7: REVOCATION:
Permanent revocation of a license to operate an adult oriented business may
occur based upon violations of this chapter. On determining that grounds exist
for a revocation, the town shall furnish written notice of the proposed
revocation to the license holder. Such notice shall set forth the time and
place of the revocation hearing before the town council, the grounds for the
proposing of such revocation, the pertinent town code sections involved, and a
brief statement of the factual matters in support thereof. The notice shall be
mailed to the last known address of the license holder or shall be delivered to
the license holder personally, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing
date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with procedures established for
regular meetings of the town council. At the close of the hearing, the town
council may deny the revocation of the license or it may take other appropriate
action, including the imposition of additional conditions. (Ord. 295, 11-10-
2003)
3-10-8: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Within thirty (30) days of a denial of an initial or renewal application by the
town, or suspension or revocation of a license by the town, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in the district court
of the eighteenth judicial district court, in and for the county of Gallatin,
state of Montana. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-9: TRANSFERRING OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
   A.   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult oriented business under the authority of a license at
any place other than the address designated in the application and set forth in
the operator's license.
   B.   An operator's license shall not be transferable from one location to
another. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-10: SPECIAL LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Adult oriented businesses that meet the required criteria to operate
may be conditionally permitted in certain districts as established in title 10
of this code provided that:
      1.   The adult oriented business may not be operated within:
         a.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of a church, synagogue, mosque,
temple or building which is used primarily for religious worship and related
religious activities;
         b.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of a public or private educational
facility including, but not limited to, child daycare facilities, nursery
schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools,
intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools,
vocational schools, secondary schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities; school includes the school ground, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school;
         c.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of a public park or recreational
area which has been designated for park or recreational activities including,
but not limited to, a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool,
reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis courts, skating rink,
pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar public land within
the village which is under the control, operation or management of the village
park and recreation authorities;
         d.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of the property line of a lot
zoned for residential use and devoted to a residential use as defined in the
zoning code; or
         e.   Eight hundred feet (800') of another adult oriented business.
   B.   An adult oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, containing another adult oriented business. (Ord.
295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-11: NONCONFORMING USES; AMORTIZATION:
   A.   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date hereof that is in
violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements of this
chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be
permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two (2) years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty
(30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two (2) or more adult oriented businesses are within eight hundred feet (800')
of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the adult oriented
business that was first established and continually operated at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business(es) is
nonconforming.
   B.   An adult oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the adult oriented business license, of a church, synagogue or
regular place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary
school, licensed daycare center, public park, residential district, within four
hundred fifty feet (450') of the adult oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply
when an application for a business license is submitted after an operator's
license has expired or has been revoked. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-12: ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an "adult motel" as that term is defined in subsection 10-1-5C of
this code.
   B.   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping room
in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have an adult
oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and,
within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or subrents
the same sleeping room again.
   C.   For purposes of subsection B of this section, the terms "rent" or
"subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   D.   Any person violating subsection B of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-13: ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord.
295, 11-10-2003)
   C.   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-14: NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   B.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years commits a misdemeanor if
the person appears seminude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   C.   A person commits a municipal infraction if the person appears in a
state of nudity, or with knowledge, allows another to appear in a state of
nudity in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the
public right of way and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set
forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-15: PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   It shall be a municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code, for a person who, with knowledge and intent, appears in
person in a nude or seminude condition in an adult oriented business, unless
the person is an employee who, while nude or seminude, is at least ten feet
(10') from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') from
the floor.
   B.   It shall be a municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code, for an employee, while nude or seminude, to solicit any pay
or gratuity from any patron or customer on the adult oriented business
premises, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is nude or seminude on the adult oriented
business premises.
   C.   It shall be a municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code, for an employee, while nude or seminude, to touch a patron
or the clothing of a patron, or for a patron to touch a nude or seminude
employee or the clothing of a nude or seminude employee, while the employee is
on the adult oriented business premises. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-16: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult oriented
business, other than adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing
room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film,
videocassette or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Upon application for an adult oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The town council may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since said diagram was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the town council.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed at all
times. No doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks or
other object(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager's station any portion
of the premises to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted, as designated in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of
this section.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-lumins as measured
at the floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person any
time.
      10.   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
      11.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no more
than one person at a time occupies a viewing booth or room, and to ensure that
no person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing booths
and rooms.
      12.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall, each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
      13.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
      14.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable materials. No wood,
plywood, composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty
eight inches (48") of the floor. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A14 of this section
commits a municipal infraction if he/she, with knowledge, fails to fulfill that
duty and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-17: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of an adult oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of an adult oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the adult oriented business to have
flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent permitted by the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of an adult oriented business. (Ord.
295, 11-10-2003)
   D.   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-18: SIGNAGE:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other town ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any adult oriented business
or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the adult
oriented business other than one primary sign or one secondary sign, as
provided herein.
   B.   Primary signs shall have no more than two (2) display surfaces. Each
such display surface shall:
      1.   Not contain any flashing lights;
      2.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      3.   Not exceed seventy five (75) square feet in area; and
      4.   Not exceed ten feet (10') in height or ten feet (10') in length.
   C.   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   D.   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   E.   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      1.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      2.   Not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area;
      3.   Not exceed five feet (5') in height and four feet (4') in width; and
      4.   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   F.   The provisions of subsections B1, C and D of this section shall also
apply to secondary signs. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   G.   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-19: SALE, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The sale, use, consumption, or possession of alcoholic beverages on the
premises of an adult oriented business is prohibited. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   B.   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-20: PERSONS YOUNGER THAN EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT
REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than eighteen
(18) years of age to enter or be on the premises of an adult oriented business
at any time the adult oriented business is open for business.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the operator of each adult oriented business to
ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to the adult
oriented business at all times during such adult oriented business' regular
business hours. It shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years from entering the adult oriented business.
It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the age of
eighteen (18) unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
      1.   A valid operator's, commercial operator's or chauffeur's driver's
license; or
      2.   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state of
Montana reflecting that such person is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
(Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
   C.   Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
3-10-21: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Montana, a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies rated G,
PG, PG-13 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or live
theatrical performances with serious artistic, social or political value, that
depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities,
are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter. (Ord. 295, 11-10-
2003)
3-10-22: NOTICES:
   A.   Any notice required or permitted to be given by any town office,
division, department or other agency under this chapter to any applicant,
operator or owner of an adult oriented business may be given either by personal
delivery or by certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the most recent address as specified in the application
for the license, or any notice of address change that has been received by the
town. Notices mailed as above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the
United States mail. In the event that any notice given by mail is returned by
the postal service, the town shall cause it to be posted at the principal
entrance to the establishment.
   B.   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the town by any person
under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is received in
the office of the mayor.
   C.   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the mayor's office in
writing any change of residence or mailing address. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-23: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult oriented business
without a valid operator's license, or in violation of relevant sections of
this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
criminal violations. Each day that an adult oriented business so operates is a
separate offense or violation. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections and clauses shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-25: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
3-10-26: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective thirty (30) days after final passage by the
town council and approval by the mayor. (Ord. 295, 11-10-2003)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Composition
4-1-2: Nomination And Appointment
4-1-3: Fire Chief, Powers And Duties
4-1-4: Assistant Chief
4-1-5: Qualifications Of Firefighters
4-1-6: Physical Examination
4-1-7: Command At Fires
4-1-8: Command Assumed By First Member Of Department On Scene
4-1-9: Ordering Business Near Fire Closed
4-1-10: Preventive Inspections
4-1-11: Hazardous Obstructions
4-1-12: Interfering With Or Obstructing Fire Personnel
4-1-13: Fire Limits; Regulation Of Structures And Buildings
4-1-13-1: Fire Limits Described
4-1-13-2: Construction Specifications
4-1-13-3: Foundation; Sewers; Chimneys
4-1-13-4: Stovepipes
4-1-13-5: Application For Permit; Committee
4-1-13-6: Authority To Prohibit Construction
4-1-14: Penalty
4-1-1: COMPOSITION:
The Fire Department of the Town shall consist of a Chief of the Fire
Department, assistant Chief of the Fire Department and such firemen as may be
authorized by the Town Council. (1977 Code § 2.24.010)
4-1-2: NOMINATION AND APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor shall nominate and, with the consent of the Council, appoint the
Chief of the Fire Department, the assistant Chief of the Fire Department and
all firemen. (1977 Code § 2.24.020)
4-1-3: FIRE CHIEF, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Personnel: The Chief of the Fire Department shall have sole command and
control over all persons connected with the Fire Department of the Town, and
shall possess full power and authority over its organization, government, and
discipline, and to that end may from time to time establish such disciplinary
rules and regulations as he may deem advisable, subject to the approval of the
Town Council.
   B.   Equipment: The Chief of the Fire Department shall have charge of and be
responsible for the engines and other apparatus, the property of the Town
furnished the Fire Department, and see that they are at all times ready for use
in the extinguishing of fires. (1977 Code § 2.24.030)
4-1-4: ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the Chief of the Fire Department, the assistant Chief of the
Department shall exercise the functions and powers set forth in Section
4-1-3 of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 2.24.040)
4-1-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF FIREFIGHTERS:
The State determines that age is a valid, bona fide occupational qualification
for the position of firefighter because of the rigorous physical demands of the
firefighting profession and the expectation of many years of emergency service.
The qualifications of firefighters shall be that they:
   A.   Shall not be more than thirty four (34) years of age at the time of
original appointment; and
   B.   Shall have passed a physical examination by a practicing physician duly
authorized to practice in this State. (2000 Code)
4-1-6: PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
The examination required by Montana Code Annotated section 7-33-4107(2) shall
be in writing and filed with the Town Clerk/ Treasurer. Such examination shall
disclose the ability of such applicant to perform the physical work usually
required of firefighters in the performance of their duty. (2000 Code)
4-1-7: COMMAND AT FIRES:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have sole and absolute control and
command over all other members of the Fire Department and all other persons
present at fires, and the movement of all persons or property within the
streets in any area threatened by fire. (1977 Code § 2.24.050)
4-1-8: COMMAND ASSUMED BY FIRST MEMBER OF DEPARTMENT ON SCENE:
The fireman or officer of the Fire Department who first arrives at a fire shall
be the officer in command until the Chief or assistant Chief of the Fire
Department arrives. (1977 Code § 2.24.060)
4-1-9: ORDERING BUSINESS NEAR FIRE CLOSED:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power, during any fire, and while
the Fire Department is engaged in putting out any fire or caring for property
at any fire, to order any place of business in the vicinity of such fire closed
for such length of time as he determines necessary for the safety and
preservation of life and property. (1977 Code § 2.24.080; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-10: PREVENTIVE INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect or cause to
be inspected, as often as may be necessary, all buildings, premises and
thoroughfares in the Town, except the interior of private dwellings, for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected, any conditions liable to
cause fires, or any violations of the provisions of this Code or other
ordinance of the Town affecting fire hazards. (1977 Code § 2.24.090)
4-1-11: HAZARDOUS OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Order To Remove Or Remedy: Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department,
or any officer of the Town or fireman shall find obstructions to or on fire
escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, windows, etc., liable to interfere with
the operations of the Fire Department or egress of the occupants in case of
fire, he shall order the same to be removed or remedied. (1977 Code § 2.24.100)
   B.   Compliance Required: Orders issued under authority of subsection A of
this Section shall be complied with promptly by the owner, his agent or
occupant of the building or premises involved. (1977 Code § 2.24.110; amd. 2000
Code)
4-1-12: INTERFERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING FIRE PERSONNEL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way interfere with or hinder any
fireman while in the discharge or apparent discharge of his duty of preventing
fire. (1977 Code § 2.24.120)
4-1-13: FIRE LIMITS; REGULATION OF STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS:
4-1-13-1: FIRE LIMITS DESCRIBED:
All that part of the Town lying within the current Town limits shall constitute
the fire limits of the Town. (1977 Code § 2.24.131; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-13-2: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Exterior Walls: No person shall, within the fire limits, construct any
building, other than one substantially fireproof; i.e., the exterior walls
thereof shall be of stone, brick, or other material equally noncombustible.
Provided, that any portion of any exterior wall built of wood and covered with
iron, tin, or zinc shall not be deemed sufficient within the meaning of this
Section
4-1-13. The roof of any building hereafter erected shall be of tin, iron, or
other material equally noncombustible.
   B.   Outbuildings; Enlargement Of Existing Buildings: This Section
4-1-13 shall not be construed to apply to smaller outbuildings wherein fire is
at no time kept; provided, that any such building shall not be closer to any
other building than twenty five feet (25') or nearer to Railroad Avenue than
fifty feet (50'); nor shall any person within said fire limits, enlarge or add
to any building now standing within such limits, unless the material employed
in said construction shall be of tin, iron, stone, brick, or other material
equally noncombustible; nor remove any building, not substantially fireproof,
from one lot to another within said limits.
   C.   Violation; Nuisance Declared: Any person, whether owner or lease
contractor or laborer, who shall hereafter in violation of the provisions of
this Section
4-1-13 erect, enlarge, or remove any such structure or roof or cause the same
to be done by others, shall be fined as provided in Section
1-4-2 of this Code; and any such structure enlarged, or in anywise made in
violation of this Section
4-1-13 is hereby declared to be a nuisance; and it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to require the author of such nuisance to remove the same
forthwith; and if he or she shall neglect or refuse to abate the same within
twenty four (24) hours after notice, it shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to do so, and the costs thereof shall be charged to any may be recovered
from the responsible party by suit in the name of the Town. (1977 Code §
2.24.132; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-13-3: FOUNDATION; SEWERS; CHIMNEYS:
   A.   Cement Foundation Required: Every building erected, repaired, additions
to, or rebuilt, where fire is to be kept, shall have a complete cement
foundation, the inside walls shall be covered with plaster.
   B.   Connection To Sewer: All buildings erected in locations serviced by
sewers, shall be required to connect to sewer.
   C.   Chimneys: All buildings shall be built with substantial brick chimneys
lined with tile and all thimbles therein shall be at least twenty four inches
(24") of brick below pipe. And in case of rebuilding of chimneys, for like
intended purposes in buildings already constructed, the same shall be composed
of like materials; and in such case the said chimneys shall be securely
plastered throughout, on the inside and also on the outside, where passing
through inaccessible places or near woodwork; and no person shall be allowed in
any building whatever hereafter erected, enlarged or improved in any manner, to
run a stovepipe through the roofs or side of the same. (1977 Code § 2.24.133;
amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-13-4: STOVEPIPES:
All buildings erected, repaired or in anywise altered within the limits of the
Town when it shall be desired that stovepipes shall pass through any partition
wall of wood or any part which is combustible material, the same shall be
provided with a two inch (2") air chamber. And every stove before use shall be
provided with zinc, iron, tin or something equivalent to protect the woodwork
underneath and around said stove from taking fire therefrom. (1977 Code §
2.24.134; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-13-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee; Submittal Of Application: It shall be the duty of the Mayor
to appoint a committee on permits, to whom shall be submitted all applications
by parties hereafter contemplating the construction of buildings and the
alteration or change in any manner of buildings already constructed within the
Town limits.
   B.   Plans And Specifications; Alterations: Such applications to be
accompanied with the plans and specifications employed by parties in the
construction of said buildings; and in case of alterations, or other changes
made hereafter in buildings, said applications shall be accompanied with a
written statement describing the general plan and nature of said proposed
alterations, and the materials employed in the construction of the same.
   C.   Submittal To Council: Immediately after the submission of said
application for permit to the committee (appointed as provided herein) they
shall report the same to the Mayor, who shall thereupon call a special meeting
of the Town Council for the purpose of determining the sufficiency of said
applications and evidence accompanied therewith, and to make such order entered
on record as will be consistent with the provisions of Section
4-1-13-6 of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 2.24.135)
4-1-13-6: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT CONSTRUCTION:
The Town Council shall have power, by special order duly made and entered on
record, (after hearing interested parties), to prohibit the erection and
maintaining of other than buildings substantially fireproof in any part of the
Town beyond the fire limits thereof so close to any other building previously
erected or of such dangerous character as to greatly endanger the same;
provided, that this Section
4-1-13 shall not be construed to apply to smaller outbuildings in which fire is
at no time kept; and any person who, in violation of such special order of
Council, shall erect and maintain such buildings, shall be fined as provided in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code, and every day of continued violation of said order shall be
deemed a separate offense and be punished by a like fine. (1977 Code §
2.24.136; amd. 2000 Code)
4-1-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 2.24.140)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Application
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: Public Nuisances
4-2-5: Responsibility For Maintenance
4-2-6: Enforcement
4-2-7: Summary Abatement
4-2-8: Abatement In Other Cases; Notice
4-2-9: Abatement By Owner
4-2-10: Appeal Proceedings; Hearing
4-2-11: Abatement By Town
4-2-12: Notice Of Assessment
4-2-13: Personal Liability Of Owner
4-2-14: Overhead Charge; Civil Penalties
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this Chapter is to provide a comprehensive
mechanism for the identification and abatement of public nuisances within the
Town.
   B.   Remedies: The remedies provided for in this Chapter are supplemental
and complementary to all of the provisions of this Code, and State and Federal
law, and nothing herein shall be read, interpreted or construed in any manner
to limit any existing right or power of the Town to abate any and all public
nuisances.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-2: APPLICATION:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all property throughout the Town
wherein any of the conditions hereinafter specified are found to exist;
provided, however, that any condition which would constitute a violation of
this Chapter but which is duly authorized under any other Town, State or
Federal law, shall not constitute a violation.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ABATEMENT: The removal, stoppage, prostration or destruction of that which
causes or constitutes a nuisance, whether by breaking or pulling it down, or
otherwise destroying, or effacing it.
NUISANCE GRASS: Any grass that exceeds eight inches (8") as measured from the
top of the soil to the top of the grass excluding any xeric grasses
specifically designated to xeriscape landscaping for water conservation
purposes.
NUISANCE NOISE: Any noise that exceeds one hundred (100) dBA for a duration
that lasts longer than fifteen (15) minutes without a proper permit.
NUISANCE TREES: Any tree that is dead or dying, interferes with the use of
public property, is harboring insects or diseases that reasonably maybe
expected to injure or harm other trees. To be declared a nuisance tree a
professionally certified by the International Society of Arboriculture arborist
must provide a report stating that the tree poses a threat to the health and
safety of other trees, property, or residents of the Town of Manhattan.
NUISANCE VEGETATION: Any vegetation that extends into a public right of way
below a height of eight feet (8'), that is listed as a nuisance defined herein
or noxious or nuisance weed by the Gallatin County Weed District Board, the
State of Montana, or which creates a fire hazard.
OWNER: The owner of record or any person with legal, financial or equitable
interest in the property on which the alleged public nuisance exists at the
time of the violation.
PROPERTY: Any real property, premises, structure or location on which a public
nuisance is alleged to exist.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building,
structure or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree, nuisance grass or
nuisance vegetation, pole, smokestack; or any excavation, hole, pit, basement,
cellar, sidewalk subspace, dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location
which in its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in
which the same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the
health, safety, life, limb or property, or cause any harm, damage or injury to
any one or more neighbors of the property, in any one or more of the following
particulars:
   A.   By reason of being a menace, threat or hazard to the general health and
safety of the community.
   B.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
   C.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about or
around the aforesaid property.
   D.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the property
and/or being vacant, any of which substantially depreciates the enjoyment and
use of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is
permanently harmful to the adjacent property.
The term "public nuisance" shall mean any nuisance designated in Section
4-2-4 of this Chapter.
SUMMARY ABATEMENT: Abatement of the nuisance by the Town, or a contractor
employed by the Town, by removal, repair or other acts without notice to the
owner, agent or occupant of the property except for the notice required by this
Chapter.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Declared Public Nuisance: The following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances: (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998)
      1.   Unsafe Building Or Structure: Any building or structure which meets
the definition of an unsafe building or structure as provided in the Uniform
Building Code, or any successor provision, adopted pursuant to this Code.
      2.   Dangerous Building Or Structure: Any building or structure which
meets the definition of a dangerous building as provided in the Uniform Code
for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings or any successor provision adopted
pursuant to this Code. (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
      3.   Substandard Building Or Structure: Any building or structure which
meets the definition of a substandard building as provided in Section 1001 of
the Uniform Housing Code, or any successor provision, adopted pursuant to this
Code.
      4.   Safety Hazard: Any imminent life safety hazard which creates a
present and immediate danger to life, property, health or public safety,
including nuisance grasses, nuisance trees and nuisance vegetation.
   B.   May Be Declared Public Nuisance: The following may be declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Attractive Nuisance: Any condition which constitutes an attractive
nuisance whether within a structure or on the premises.
      2.   Repeated Disruptive Activities: Any building or place which has been
operated or maintained in a manner that has resulted in repeated disruptive
activities including, but not limited to, disturbances of the peace, public
drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passersby, sale of stolen goods,
public urination, theft, assaults, batteries, acts of vandalism, excessive
littering, illegal parking, loud noises (particularly in late night or early
morning hours), traffic violations or police detentions and arrests.
      3.   Unwholesome, Unsanitary Or Detrimental Conditions: Any condition
which renders air, food or drink unwholesome, unsanitary or detrimental to
health.
      4.   Fire Hazard: Any condition which poses a fire hazard.
      5.   Animals: Any condition in violation of Title 5, Chapter 4 of this
Code.
      6.   Kennel: The ownership, maintenance or operation of a dog or animal
kennel without proper provisions for the protection of the surrounding
properties from odor and sound generated by the kennel.
      7.   Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles; Junk; Rubbish; Etc.: The keeping,
storage, depositing or accumulation on the premises for an unreasonable period
of time of any personal property or wastes; including, but not limited to,
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles; abandoned, wrecked or
dismantled boats or vessels; automotive parts and equipment; appliances;
furniture; containers; packing materials; scrap metal; wood; building
materials; junk; rubbish; debris; dirt; sand; gravel; concrete or other similar
materials which is within the view of persons on adjacent or nearby real
property or the public right of way and which is detrimental to the public
health, safety and general welfare. However, building materials being used or
to be used for a project of repair or renovation for which a building permit
has been obtained may be stored for such period of time as is necessary
expeditiously to complete the project.
      8.   Nuisance Noise: Any noise as defined in Section
4-2-3 on private or public property, including rights of way.
      9.   Defined In Statute: Any public nuisance as defined in Montana Code
Annotated section 45-8-111 or otherwise recognized in law as constituting a
public nuisance. (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998).
   C.   Exceptions
      1.   Vegetation that does not extend into a public right of way below 8'
of existing grade that generally complies with the approved landscaping and
zero-scaping document of the Town of Manhattan.
      2.   Ornamental plants and plants for the purpose of gardening where they
do not extend into the public rig hot way below eight feet (8') from existing
grade.
      3.   Native plants of Montana as defined by the Montana Department of
Agriculture where they do not ext3end into the public right of way below eight
inches (8") of existing grade.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Responsibility: Every owner, occupant, lessee or holder of any
possessory interest in real property within the Town is required to maintain
such property so as not to violate the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Liability For Violation: The owner of the property shall remain liable
for violations hereof regardless of any contract or agreement with any third
party regarding such property or the occupation of the property by any third
party.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The Town Council shall have primary responsibility for the abatement of a
public nuisance under this Chapter.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-7: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   Complaint; Inspection; Abatement By City: Whenever a complaint is made
to the Town Council of the existence of a "public nuisance" as defined in
Sections
4-2-3 and
4-2-4 of this Chapter, the Town Council shall promptly cause to be inspected
the property on which it is alleged that such public nuisance exists. Should
the Town Council find that public nuisance exists, and that the public health,
safety or welfare is in immediate life- threatening danger, then summary
abatement procedures shall be implemented and the Town Council may cause the
nuisance to be removed or abated.
   B.   Notice For Immediate Abatement: When summary abatement is authorized,
notice to the owner, agent or occupant of the property informing of the need
for the immediate abatement shall be required. Failure or refusal of the
occupant or owner to receive the notice does not affect the right of summary
abatement.
   C.   Posting On Property: Following summary abatement, the Town Council
shall cause to be posted on the property liable for the abatement, notice
describing the action taken to abate the nuisance. (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998)
   D.   Fire Hazard Abatement for Nuisance Vegetation and grasses. When
nuisance vegetation and or nuisance grasses are designated as a fire hazard by
the Town of Manhattan Personnel then abatement action may be taken within five
(5) days after notifying the property owner to remove the threat to personal
safety, health and wellbeing.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-8: ABATEMENT IN OTHER CASES; NOTICE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared; Findings Filed With Council: If, after inspecting
the property on which the nuisance is reported, the Town Council declares the
existence of a public nuisance, but the nature thereof is not such as to
require the summary abatement of such nuisance, then, regular abatement
procedures shall be followed. Photographs and reports of the findings and
inspections shall be made and filed with the Town Council. (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998)
   B.   Notice To Owner; Service:
      1.   Personal Service: The Town Council shall determine the legal owner
who, from the records in the County Clerk and Recorder's office, appears to be
the titled owner of the aforesaid property and immediately cause a written
notice to be served on such owner by personal service or by leaving a copy of
the notice at the usual place of residence or business of such owner, or
address of such owner shown in the County Clerk and Recorder's records, or by
copy mailed to such owner at such address by United States certified mail
return receipt requested.
      2.   Publication; Posting: If service of such written notice is unable to
be perfected by any of the methods described above, the Town Council shall
cause a copy of the aforesaid notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Town, once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks and shall
further cause a copy of the aforesaid notice to be left with the individual, if
any, in possession of such property on which it is alleged such public nuisance
exists, or if there is no individual in possession thereof, the Town Council
shall cause a copy of the notice to be posted at such structure, located on the
premises.
   C.   Notice To Lienholder: The Town Council shall also determine from the
County Clerk and Recorder's office who the lienholder of the property, if any,
as documented therein, is and cause a written notice to be served on which
lienholder by United States mail return receipt requested. (Ord. 252, 9-1-1998;
amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Contents Of Notice: The aforesaid notice of the owner, and lienholder,
if any, of the property shall state clearly and concisely the findings of the
Town Council with respect to the existence of a public nuisance. The notice
shall further state that unless the owner thereof shall cause the abatement of
the public nuisance, pursuant to the orders contained in the Town Council
notice, the public nuisance shall be abated by the Town at the expense of the
owner.
   E.   Responsibility, Liability Of Owner: Any person who is the record owner
of the premises, location or structure at the time an order pursuant to this
Chapter is issued and served upon him, shall be responsible for complying with
that order, and liable for any costs incurred by the Town therewith,
notwithstanding the fact that he conveys his interests in the property to
another after such order was issued and served.
   F.   No Defense: It shall not be a defense to the determination that a
public nuisance exists that the property is boarded up or otherwise enclosed.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-9: ABATEMENT BY OWNER:
   A.   Abatement Or Statement No Nuisance Exists: Within thirty (30) days
after the posting and mailing of a notice to abate a nuisance, the owner, agent
of the owner or individual in possession of the affected property shall remove
and abate such nuisance or show that no nuisance in fact exists. Such showing
shall be made by filing a written statement that no nuisance exists. The
statement shall be filed with the Town Council.
   B.   Additional Time: The Town Council, upon written application by the
owner within the thirty (30) day period after the notice has been served, may
grant additional time for the owner to effect the abatement of the public
nuisance.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-10: APPEAL PROCEEDINGS; HEARING:
   A.   Request For Hearing: The owner or occupant of the property who has been
served with a notice pursuant to this Chapter that a public nuisance exists and
that it must be abated within thirty (30) days, may, within seven (7) calendar
days after receipt of such notice, make a written demand to the Town Council
for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists.
   B.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: The hearing shall be held at the next
scheduled regular meeting of the Town Council, following receipt by the Town
Council of the written demand and at least two (2) days' notice of the hearing
shall be given to the individual who made the written demand for the hearing.
   C.   Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted by the Town Council. The
Council may amend or modify the notice and/or order, or extend the time for
compliance with the Town Council's order by the owner by such date as the
majority of the Council may determine.
   D.   Right To Present Evidence: The owner, agent of the owner, occupant and
lienholder, if any, of the subject property shall be given the opportunity to
present evidence to the Council in the course of the hearing.
   E.   Waiver Of Costs: In those instances where the nuisance has been abated
by the Town, the Council shall have discretion to waive the cost of abating a
nuisance, in whole or in part, if in the course of the hearing reviewing the
decision, the Council finds that any of the following did not conform to the
provisions of this Chapter:
      1.   The notice to remove the nuisance;
      2.   The work performed in abating the nuisance; or
      3.   The computation of charges.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23- 002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-11: ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Authority To Enter: Should any public nuisance not
be abated at the expiration of time stated in the notice/order or within such
additional time as the Town Council may grant, the Town Council shall have the
authority to enter upon the property and abate the public nuisance found
thereon.
   B.   Salvaged Material:
      1.   Sale: In abating such nuisance, the Town Council may go to whatever
extent may be necessary to complete the abatement of the public nuisance and
should it be practicable to salvage any material derived in the aforesaid
abatement, the Town may sell the salvaged material at private or public sale at
the best price obtainable and shall keep an accounting of the proceeds thereof.
      2.   Proceeds Of Sale: The proceeds, if any, obtained from the sale of
any material salvaged as a result of an abatement of a public nuisance by the
Town shall be deposited to the General Fund of the Town and any deficit between
the amount so received and the cost of the abatement may be levied as an
assessment against the property in question by the Town Council and collected
on any other assessment by the Town; however, any other alternative collection
method may be utilized by the Town to recoup the deficit. Should the proceeds
of the sale of such salvaged material exceed the cost of abatement, the
surplus, if any, shall be paid to the owner of the property from which the
public nuisance was abated when a proper claim pursuant to State law to the
excess is established.
   C.   Work Done By Town Departments; Private Contract: In abating a public
nuisance, the Town Council may call upon any of the Town departments or
divisions for whatever assistance shall be deemed necessary or may by private
contract cause the abatement of the public nuisance.
   D.   Statement Of Costs: The Town Council shall, after completing the
removal and abatement, file a statement of costs with the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-12: NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Service On Owner; Right To Object: Upon receipt of the statement of
costs from the Town Council, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall mail to the owner
of the property upon which the public nuisance has been abated notice of the
amounts set forth in the statement plus an additional amount sufficient to
defray the costs of the notice and stating that the Town proposes to assess
against the property the amount set forth in the notice and that objections to
the proposed assessment must be made, in writing, and received by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing such notice.
   B.   No Objection By Owner; Lien: Upon the expiration of the twenty (20) day
period, if no objections have been received by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall enter that amount in the Town liens docket which
shall therefore constitute a lien against the property.
   C.   Objection; Referral To Council: If objections of either the property
owner or their representative are received by the Town Clerk/Treasurer prior to
the expiration of the twenty (20) day period, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
refer the matter to the Town Council for review.
   D.   Review; Determination: Upon conclusion of the review, the Town Council
shall make a written determination that the amount of the charges shall be
cancelled, reduced or remain the same. A copy of this determination shall be
furnished to the person making the objection.
   E.   Elimination Of Civil Penalty: The Town Council, in review, may reduce a
proposed assessment by eliminating the civil penalty portion of the invoice if
it is determined that:
      1.   The current owner was not in possession of the property at the time
the notice required in Section 4-2-8 of this Chapter was posted; or
      2.   The owner did not receive the notice to remove the nuisance, did not
have knowledge of the nuisance and could not, with the exercise of reasonable
diligence, have had such knowledge.
   F.   Notice Of Assessment Not Received By Owner: If, after a lien has been
entered in the docket of Town liens, there is a written request of an owner who
alleges that the owner did not receive notice of the proposed assessment, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall refer the matter for review pursuant to subsection C
of this Section.
   G.   Reduction Or Cancellation Of Lien: The lien may be cancelled or reduced
by the Town Council, if it is determined that the owner did not receive notice
of the proposed assessment, did not previously have knowledge of the lien or of
the nuisance abatement work constituting the basis of the lien, could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, have had such knowledge, and in
addition, that the circumstances are such that reduction or cancellation of the
charges would have been appropriate had the matter been reviewed pursuant to
this Section prior to assessment. Upon receipt of a certification from the Town
Council, pursuant to this subsection, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall cancel or
reduce the lien if required by the determination of the Town Council.
   H.   Entry Of Lien On Docket: A copy of the determination will be furnished
to the Town Clerk/Treasurer who shall then enter a lien in the amount
determined by the Town Council in the Town liens docket as provided in
subsection B of this Section.
   I.   Determination Final: The determination of the Town Council is a final
administrative decision.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-13: PERSONAL LIABILITY OF OWNER:
The person who is the owner of the property at the time at which the notice
required under Section
4-2-8 of this Chapter is posted shall be personally liable for the amount of
the assessment including all interest, civil penalties and other charges.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
4-2-14: OVERHEAD CHARGE; CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Overhead Charge: Whenever a nuisance is abated by the Town, the Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall keep an accurate amount of all expenses incurred,
including an overhead charge of twenty five percent (25%) for administration
and a civil penalty of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each nuisance abated.
   B.   Subsequent Nuisances: When the Town has abated a nuisance maintained by
any owner of real property, for such subsequent nuisance that is abated by the
Town within two (2) consecutive calendar years concerning real property, owned
by the same person, an additional civil penalty of fifty percent (50%), minimum
of fifty dollars ($50.00), of the cost of abatement shall be added to the
costs, charges and civil penalties provided for in subsection A of this
Section. The civil penalty shall be imposed without regard to whether the
nuisances abated by the Town involve the same real property or are of the same
character.
(Ord. 252, 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. 23-002, 9-14-2023)
CHAPTER 3
TOWN OFFICES TOBACCO FREE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Declaration
4-3-2: Penalty
4-3-1: DECLARATION:
The entire public buildings located at 103 South Broadway, 120 West Main and
107 South 7th Avenue in which are located the town offices, senior citizens'
center, public meeting rooms, bathrooms, hallways, the Manhattan town shop are
declared a tobacco free environment. As such, all use of cigarettes, pipes,
cigars, and other forms of tobacco are strictly prohibited. (Ord. 07-006, 7-10-
2007)
4-3-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Noxious Weeds Defined
4-4-2: Weeds Prohibited
4-4-3: Notice To Destroy Weeds
4-4-4: Noncompliance
4-4-5: Penalty
4-4-1: NOXIOUS WEEDS DEFINED:
   A.   "Noxious weeds" or "weeds" means any exotic plant species established
or that may be introduced in the State which may render land unfit for
agriculture, forestry, livestock, wildlife, or other beneficial uses or that
may harm native plant communities and that is designated:
      1.   As a Statewide noxious weed by rule of the department; or
      2.   As a district noxious weed by a board, following public notice of
intent and a public hearing.
   B.   A weed designated by rule of the department as a Statewide noxious weed
must be considered noxious in every district of the State. (1977 Code §
7.08.010; amd. 2000 Code)
4-4-2: WEEDS PROHIBITED:
No owner of any lot, place or area within the Town, or agent of such owner,
shall permit noxious weeds on such lot, place or area and one-half (1/2) of any
road or street lying next to such property abutting thereon. The existence of
such noxious weeds shall constitute a public nuisance. (1977 Code § 7.08.020)
4-4-3: NOTICE TO DESTROY WEEDS:
   A.   Notice Required: Whenever noxious weeds are found to exist upon any
premises within the Town, the Town shall notify the owner of the property or,
if no such person can be found, the person in control of the premises.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall state that the existence of such
noxious weeds constitutes a public nuisance, and shall order the owner, or
person in charge, to exterminate or remove all such weeds on any lot, place or
area within the Town limits, and upon one-half (1/2) of any adjacent street or
road. The notice shall further inform such property owner, or their agent, that
upon their failure to remove or exterminate such weeds within a specified time,
the Town may proceed to have such weeds removed or exterminated and assess the
cost thereof to the property involved.
   C.   Service Of Notice:
      1.   Personal Service: Personal notice of the order shall be served.
      2.   Publication Of Notice: In case personal service cannot be obtained,
then the notice shall be published in a prominently displayed advertisement,
once a week for two (2) weeks in a newspaper in the Town, or if no such paper
exists, in a newspaper within the County. The last date of publication shall be
not less than seven (7) days prior to the date upon which the Town shall
commence the removal of weeds from such property. (1977 Code § 7.08.030)
4-4-4: NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Abatement By Town: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner,
or agent thereof, to exterminate or remove noxious weeds growing, lying or
located upon the property of the owner or upon one-half (1/2) of any road or
street lying next to the lands before the date specified in the notice, the
Town Superintendent or other responsible Town official may exterminate or
remove such noxious weeds.
   B.   Costs; Lien: Such official shall report to the Town Clerk/Treasurer the
cost of such extermination. The Clerk/Treasurer shall make an additional charge
of ten percent (10%) to cover administrative costs. The total costs shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land from which or adjoining which the
noxious weeds have been exterminated or removed. The clerk/treasurer shall
cause the aforesaid costs to become a lien against the property involved. (1977
Code § 7.08.040; amd. 2000 Code)
4-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
ARTICLE A. HANDLING
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Definitions
4-5A-2: Standards For Accumulation
4-5A-3: Storage Of Rubbish
4-5A-4: Storage Of Waste Matter
4-5A-5: Payment Of Rates; Lien
4-5A-6: Responsibilities
4-5A-7: Abatement By Town; Assessment Of Costs
4-5A-8: Penalty
4-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions of terms shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning or unless elsewhere expressly stated for specific
application:
COMPOST: The product resulting from the decomposition of leaves, straw, grasses
and other such vegetable matter mixed or unmixed with well-rotted manure, and
mixed or unmixed with inorganic materials ordinarily forming a part of the soil
such as sand or lime, loam, and used, usable or intended to be used as a
fertilizer and soil conditioner.
DISPOSAL AREA: Any site, location, tract of land, area, building structure or
premises used or intended to be used for refuse disposal.
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal, vegetable, or other matter that attends
the preparation, consumption, decay, dealing in or storage of meats, fish,
fowl, birds, fruit or vegetables, including the cans, containers, or wrappers
wasted along with such materials.
JUNK DEALER: Any person, firm, or agency or any employee or agent thereof who
is or intends to be engaged in the collection and/or transportation, sorting,
segregation, storing, exchange or sale of waste matter, rubbish, or of any old,
used or secondhand materials of any kind, including cloth, rags, clothing,
paper, bottles, rubber, iron, brass, copper, or other metal furniture, used
motor vehicles or the parts thereof; or of any other article which from its
worn condition renders it practically useless for the purpose for which it was
made and which is commonly classed as junk.
MANURE: That particular refuse which is the accumulation of animal or fowl
droppings with or without added decomposable materials such as straw, grasses,
or leaves and exclusive of human excrement.
NIGHT SOIL: Any refuse material composed wholly or partly of human excrement
and shall include the extracted contents from privies, privy vaults; latrines,
septic tanks, cesspools; sanitary sewage; and other such material retaining the
characteristics of human excrement; provided, that properly digested and dried
sewage sludge from a public sewage treatment plant shall not be included.
OCCUPANT: The person occupying a dwelling unit or the person operating,
managing, or keeping any hotel, restaurant, food establishment or the
responsible head, manager, agent or proprietor of any industrial establishment,
school, church, institution or premises wherein or whereon refuse accumulates
or is likely to accumulate.
PRIVATE SCAVENGER: A refuse collector who engages in the business of collection
and transportation and/or disposal of refuse by specific hire or contract with
another individual, firm, corporation, public agency or institution and does
not include a public agency responsible by the law for the collection of refuse
in any given jurisdiction.
REFUSE: Any waste product, solid, or having the character of solids, rather
than liquid in that it will not flow readily without additional liquid and
which is composed wholly or partly of such materials as garbage, swill,
sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, industrial solid wastes or
domestic solid wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as meat;
dining rooms, markets, food establishments or any places dealing in or handling
meat, fowl, fruits, grain or vegetables; offal, animal excreta, or the
carcasses of animals; tree or shrub trimmings, grass clippings; brick, plaster
or other waste matter resulting from the demolition, alteration or construction
of buildings or structures; accumulated waste material, cans, containers,
tires, junk or other such substances which may become a nuisance; old
automobile bodies, old machines and any other old machinery or equipment that
is not being used.
REFUSE COLLECTION: The process whereby refuse and/or refuse containers
containing refuse are taken from designated locations on any premises and are
loaded into vehicles of any kind intended to transport refuse from the premises
to a disposal area, and whereby empty containers are returned to such
designated location.
REFUSE COLLECTOR: Any person, firm, agency or public body or any employee or
agent thereof who is or intends to be engaged in the collection and/or
transportation of swill, rubbish, waste matter, or manure in any part of the
Town.
REFUSE CONTAINER: Any can, bucket, pail, box, bin, sack, basket, carton,
hopper, crate or article constructed, built, purchased, installed, or used for
the purpose of holding an accumulation of refuse, or one or more of its
component parts pending collection and/or disposal.
REFUSE DISPOSAL: The complete process required for the disposal of any refuse
and shall include all tools, equipment, treatment space, buildings, structures,
appurtenances and materials required to take refuse from a refuse collector at
the premises line or other designated transfer point of a disposal area, and
bury, burn, destroy or otherwise dispose of such refuse.
RUBBISH: Wood, leaves, trimmings from shrubs, dead trees or branches thereof,
shavings, sawdust, excelsior, wooden ware, dodger, printed matter, paper, paper
board, paste board, grass, rags, straw, boots, shoes, hats, and all other
combustible material not included under the term garbage.
SALVAGE OPERATION: Any operation carried on by a person, or agent or employee
of such persons for the express purpose of reclaiming a portion of a substance,
material, or goods purchased originally by such person for use without salvage,
sorting, or segregation which has been damaged, retained, or deemed unfit for
the original purpose intended but is not yet classed as refuse.
SWILL: That particular garbage which is wholly, or nearly so, edible and usable
as a food and having food value for animals or fowl accumulated from animal,
vegetable or other matter wasted from clubs, hospitals, hotels, restaurants and
public eating places.
SWILL COLLECTOR: Any person, firm, agency or public body or any employee or
agent thereof who is or intends to be engaged in the collection and/or
transportation of swill exclusively.
TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE: That portion of the refuse disposal operation which
provides for the hauling of refuse in bulk or in refuse containers to the
designated transfer point at a disposal area.
WASTE MATTER: Waste material composed of soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam,
stone, bricks, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes, cinders, shell,
metals, and all other noncombustible material which has been or is discarded or
is to be discarded. (1977 Code § 7.12.010)
4-5A-2: STANDARDS FOR ACCUMULATION:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary accumulation and storage of refuse pending collection:
   A.   Containers:
      1.   Size: Garbage containers for other than bulk accumulation shall be
approved containers, not exceeding ninety six (96) gallon capacity, in good
repair, leakproof, rodentproof, and free from holes.
      2.   Covers: Garbage containers shall be fitted with tightfitting covers
and such covers shall be removed only at times of filling or emptying.
   B.   Placement For Collection: Where the residents or any persons have
contracted with the town for the removal of refuse, garbage containers shall be
placed in the designated place for collection immediately prior to the time of
collection and shall be removed from any public area or way as soon thereafter
as possible. When collection time is prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in
residential areas, the containers may be placed in the designated area the
night before.
   C.   Storage Area: The place where containers are kept pending collection
shall be clean, free from spilled garbage, or foul smelling water or residue.
(1977 Code § 7.12.020; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Home Incinerators Prohibited: No home incinerator, burn barrel, or
container used as such shall be used or permitted to be used as a means of
disposing of garbage, refuse, or rubbish. (Ord. 07-007, 7-10-2007)
   E.   Premises Not Under Contract: All persons or businesses not entering
into agreement with the town for the removal of garbage and refuse shall be
compelled to comply with the requirements and standards herein set forth, and
all individual houses and apartment houses must remove the garbage and refuse
at least once a week, and all businesses must remove the garbage and refuse at
least twice a week. (1977 Code § 7.12.020; amd. 2000 Code)
4-5A-3: STORAGE OF RUBBISH:
   A.   Containers: Rubbish shall be held and stored in fire resistant
containers in any industrial, commercial, or business structure and in a
container acceptable to the health department and the chief of the fire
department having jurisdiction in any other building or structure.
   B.   Ordinary Accumulations: Ordinary accumulations of rubbish between
collections may be placed at the designated collection place in any container
of size and shape easily lifted and handled without spillage by the collector.
   C.   Extraordinary Accumulations: Extraordinary accumulations of rubbish
shall be placed for collection in containers acceptable to the collector, the
health department, and the department of public service.
   D.   Tree Trimmings: Tree trimmings may be placed for collection outside of
a container provided such trimmings are secured in bundles of convenient size
and weight and do not exceed four feet (4') in length. (1977 Code § 7.12.030)
4-5A-4: STORAGE OF WASTE MATTER:
Waste matter shall be held and stored in approved containers. (1977 Code §
7.12.040; amd. 2000 Code)
4-5A-5: PAYMENT OF RATES; LIEN:
Every person or business that shall enter into a contract with the town for the
hauling of garbage shall pay the rates established by the town council from
time to time, and are in force and in effect at any given removal period. The
rates may be changed by the town council at their discretion, and in the event
that any person or business shall enter into an agreement with the town council
for the removal of garbage and refuse to pay for the same, then the amount of
money due to the town for removal of said garbage shall be a lien upon the
property from which the garbage was hauled, together with the penalties
attached and to which by Montana law in such cases made and provided. (1977
Code § 7.12.050)
4-5A-6: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Duty To Maintain: Every person, occupant, owner or permit holder shall
have the duty of maintaining premises or equipment under his supervision, or
containers, or disposal areas, in compliance with the requirements of this
article. (1977 Code § 7.12.060; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Failure To Maintain Declared Nuisance: Failure to carry out such duties
herein or elsewhere required for the sanitary accumulation, collection,
transportation and disposal of refuse shall be deemed a municipal infraction,
and the presence of garbage or refuse in any place or in any condition not
meeting the requirements of this article is declared a nuisance. (Ord. 07-002,
2-13-2007)
   C.   Duty To Provide Containers: It shall be the duty of every tenant,
lessee or occupant of any private dwelling house, the keeper of a hotel,
restaurant, eating house, boarding house or other building where meals are
served; the owner of every flat or apartment house, trailer camp, motel, auto
court, and of every other person having garbage, rubbish, or waste matter to
provide and keep within said building or on the lot on which the building or
business is situated, suitable and sufficient watertight containers of
sufficient size to handle the accumulation of garbage, rubbish or waste matter
on the premises during the interval between collections without being filled
within four inches (4") of the top.
   D.   Throwing Or Depositing Prohibited: No person shall throw or deposit any
garbage, swill, rubbish or waste matter or cause the same to be thrown or
deposited upon any street, alley, gutter, park or other public way or throw or
deposit the same in or upon any premises or vacant lot or in any water or
waterway thereto, or store or keep the same except in containers required by
this code.
   E.   Harborage Of Rodents Prohibited: No person shall store, deposit or keep
refuse in any place or in any manner where rodents can have access to or feed
thereon, or can use such refuse as a harborage, nest or breeding place.
   F.   Deposits In Unauthorized Areas Prohibited: No person shall deposit or
cause to be deposited any refuse in any place not authorized as a disposal area
by the town council.
   G.   Burning: No person shall burn garbage, swill or rubbish at any place or
in any manner violating a provision of this article or likely to create a
health hazard or a nuisance. (1977 Code § 7.12.060; amd. 2000 Code)
      1.   Excessive Smoke Or Toxic Fumes: Under no circumstances shall any
material, causing excessive smoke, liberating a toxic substance upon
combustion, or producing a noxious odor likely to affect the occupancy of any
premises, be burned except under conditions and in equipment approved by the
Manhattan fire chief. (Ord. 07-007, 7-10-2007)
      2.   Fluorescent Lighting Tubes; Mercury Vapor Lamps: Discarded
fluorescent lighting tubes and mercury vapor lamps shall not be present in any
refuse intended to be burned under any circumstances, but shall be disposed of
in authorized disposal areas by burial. (1977 Code § 7.12.060)
      3.   Occasional Burning: Any desired burns must be inspected for location
and material, and then scheduled for the burn by the Manhattan fire chief or
his duly authorized representative. (Ord. 07-007, 7-10-2007)
   H.   Burying: No person within the corporate limits of the town shall bury
garbage or swill except in an authorized disposal area.
   I.   Accumulations Prohibited: No person, owner, agent or occupant of a lot
or premises whereon a building of any kind may exist or of a vacant lot shall
allow any collection of garbage, rubbish, waste matter or filth of any
description to remain on such a lot or premises longer than three (3) days or
any shorter periods of time specified by the health officer, or his duly
authorized representative, after the date of a written notice issued by the
health officer or his duly authorized representative, to remove the material
offending.
   J.   Dead Animals; Animal Waste:
      1.   Disposal Required: Every person who is the owner or custodian of any
animals, fowl, livestock or game which has died other than by slaughter for
food; any animal offal from slaughterhouses, slaughter pens, or any offal or
putrescible waste from any place where meat, fish, poultry, game or fowl is
sold or handled or discarded as unfit for food or spoiled, or condemned shall
dispose of the remains, carcasses, or parts or entrails thereof within the next
available period of daylight after such death or accumulation in a sanitary
manner and in conformance with all requirements and order of the health
officer, or of his duly authorized representative.
      2.   Dead Animals Reported: All dead animals, or part thereof which are
found on or in any public street, alley, parkway, public way, or on public
property shall be reported to the department of public service and that
department so notified shall be held responsible for the collection within the
day reported of the carcass of such animal and the delivery of such carcass to
a reduction plant which shall dispose of such carcass without charge to the
town or the county. (1977 Code § 7.12.060)
4-5A-7: ABATEMENT BY TOWN; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
After notice is given in writing to any person violating the terms of this
article and the failure to correct the said situation, the town council is
authorized to have the condition that is in violation of this article corrected
and to assess the costs against the record title holder of the property, and if
the same are not paid by the record title holder, to have the costs levied
against the next annual tax assessment and collect the assessment in the same
manner as real property taxes. (1977 Code § 7.12.080)
4-5A-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this article for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
ARTICLE B. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CONTRACTOR
SECTION:
4-5B-1: Restriction Of Services
4-5B-2: Sole Service Provider
4-5B-1: RESTRICTION OF SERVICES:
No person other than the Town's designated solid waste management system
contractor shall engage in the business of collecting, removing and disposing
of refuse and solid waste within the jurisdiction of the Town, except:
   A.   Any commercial or business owner who generates refuse or solid waste on
his commercial premises or who has been a commercial customer of any solid
waste contractor since June 1, 1994; or
   B.   All drop/box services on construction sites. (1977 Code § 7.14.010)
4-5B-2: SOLE SERVICE PROVIDER:
The Town's designated solid waste management contractor shall be the sole
provider of garbage and solid waste disposal services within the Town limits
from the date of enactment unless terminated pursuant to any agreement between
the Town and the designated contractor. (1977 Code § 7.14.020; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE C. GARBAGE COLLECTION
SECTION:
4-5C-1: Definition
4-5C-2: Application
4-5C-3: Containers
4-5C-4: Supervision
4-5C-5: Deposit Of Garbage
4-5C-6: Penalty
4-5C-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Article, the word "garbage" as used in this Article
means all refuse, animal, plant, and vegetable matter, ashes, floor sweepings,
waste paper and the like; but shall not be construed to include animal or
poultry manure, basement, foundation or lawn excavations, or loose earth from
excavations of any kind, or trees (except small prunings), or debris from the
construction or wreckage of buildings; but this definition shall not be held to
exclude as garbage anything which is commonly known or accepted as such even
though not specified herein, and in case of doubt or dispute, the Town Council
shall decide such dispute and its decision shall be final and conclusive. (1977
Code § 7.16.010)
4-5C-2: APPLICATION:
The provisions of this Article shall extend and be applicable to all places and
premises within the corporate limits of the Town where garbage accumulates.
Nothing in this Section nor in this Article contained shall be construed to
afford or grant immunity to any owner, operator or occupant of any premises
within the corporate limits of the Town, without regard to the purpose for
which used, from the duty to keep the same free from unsanitary, unsafe, or
unsightly accumulations of "garbage", as defined in Section
4-5C-1 of this Article, or which is offensive to the neighborhood as a
nuisance, nor to disregard or violate any other provisions of this Article or
any rule or regulation adopted and approved pursuant hereof, nor to repeal or
modify the provisions of any other ordinance of the Town not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Article for the protection and the safety of the life,
property, and health of the citizens of the Town; nor shall any such other
ordinance be considered or regarded as repealed or modified by anything in this
Article contained unless clearly inconsistent herewith and unless herein
expressly so provided; but all other such ordinances shall be and are continued
in full force and effect and shall be read and construed, where necessary, in
connection with this Article and harmonized therewith if it be possible; nor
shall any provision of this Article be construed as granting immunity or
exemption from prosecution for violation of its provisions, but such
prosecution shall be in addition to any other provision of this Article for its
observance and enforcement and to make it effective as a police regulation of
the Town. (1977 Code § 7.16.020)
4-5C-3: CONTAINERS:
The owner, operator and occupant of every human habitation and place of
business within the corporate limits shall provide, or cause to be provided and
at all times keep or cause to be kept, portable vessels or containers for the
deposits therein of garbage. Such containers shall have handles, not exceed
ninety six (96) gallons capacity, be provided with a suitable flytight cover,
and be so constructed and at all times maintained so as to prevent leakage. As
many containers shall be provided on any premises as is necessary and
sufficient for the deposits of the garbage accumulating thereon. (1977 Code §
7.16.030; amd. 2000 Code)
4-5C-4: SUPERVISION:
The collection, removal and disposition of garbage in the Town shall be done
and performed under the supervision, direction and control of the Town Council,
and in strict conformity with the provisions of this Article, and with the
additional rules and regulations that may be made from time to time by the Town
Council. (1977 Code § 7.16.040)
4-5C-5: DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE:
The deposit of garbage upon the premises or property of another, within the
corporate limits thereof, without the express permission and consent of the
owner or occupant of such other property or premises, is hereby forbidden and
prohibited, and any such depositing shall be deemed a violation of this Article
and, upon conviction in the City Court, shall subject the offender to the
penalties provided for violation thereof. (1977 Code § 7.16.050; amd. 2000
Code)
4-5C-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this article for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 6
JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Unlawful To Leave On Private Property
4-6-2: Notice Of Violation
4-6-3: Penalty
4-6-1: UNLAWFUL TO LEAVE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Seventy Two Hour Limit: It is unlawful to park, store, leave, or permit
parking or storing of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or
part(s) thereof for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours, which
is in rusted, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, or inoperative or
abandoned condition, whether attended or not, upon any private property within
the town limits, unless same is completely enclosed within a building or unless
it is in connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed
for same.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The accumulation and storage of two (2) or more of
such vehicles or part(s) thereof as hereinbefore defined on private property
shall constitute a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
the inhabitants of the town, and it shall be the duty of the registered owner
of such vehicle or part(s) thereof, and it shall also be the duty of the owner
of the private property, or lessee or other person in possession of private
property upon which such vehicle or part(s) thereof is located, to remove same
from the town limits, or to have the same housed in a building where it will
not be visible from the street. (1977 Code § 9.38.010)
4-6-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice To Remove: It shall be the duty of the town police to give
written notice to the registered owner of any motor vehicle or part(s) thereof
which is in violation of section
4-6-1 of this chapter, or to give such notice to the owner or lessee of private
land upon which the motor vehicle or part(s) thereof is situated, giving notice
that the vehicle or part(s) thereof violates section
4-6-1 of this chapter and demanding that the motor vehicle or part(s) thereof
be removed from the town limits within seventy two (72) hours from the time of
service of notice, or that within seventy two (72) hours, same may be housed in
a building where it will not be visible from the street.
   B.   Service Of Notice: The notice may be given by personal service or by
certified mail, with a return receipt requested. Written notice required by
this section shall be deemed to have been given, i.e., constructive notice,
when the registered owner of the motor vehicle or part(s) thereof, or the
owner, lessee, or other person in possession of private property concerned
herein either:
      1.   Refuses to accept the prepaid United States mail certified letter
from the town and the letter is returned from the post office marked "refused";
or
      2.   The person to be notified is present in the town but the
notification letter is returned, marked "unclaimed" by the post office, in
which event notice by the town may be made by affixing the letter in a
conspicuous place at the main entrance or to the front door of the residence of
such person. (1977 Code § 9.38.020)
4-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Supervision Of Department
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Assistant Chief Of Police And/Or Other Police Officers
5-1-4: Duties Of Police
5-1-5: Special Policemen
5-1-6: Extension Of Police Authority
5-1-7: Authority Along Utility Lines
5-1-8: Unclaimed Personal Property
5-1-1: SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT:
The mayor shall have charge of and supervision over the police department. He
shall enforce the observance of all ordinances that regulate the management and
discipline of the police force. (1977 Code § 2.20.070)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   General Purpose: Performs a variety of complex administrative,
supervisory and professional work in planning, coordinating and directing the
activities of the police department.
   B.   Supervision:
      1.   Received: Works under the general guidance and direction of the
mayor.
      2.   Exercised: Exercises supervision over all police department staff
directly or through subordinate supervisors.
   C.   Desired Minimum Qualifications:
      1.   Education And Experience:
         a.   Graduation from a college or university with a bachelor's degree
in police science, law enforcement, criminal justice, public administration or
a closely related field, and
         b.   Seven (7) years of experience in police work, three (3) years of
which must have been equivalent to police sergeant or higher, and
         c.   Completion of the basic law enforcement training academy or
equivalent, or
         d.   An equivalent combination of education and experience.
      2.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
         a.   Thorough knowledge of modern law enforcement principles,
procedures, techniques, and equipment; considerable knowledge of applicable
laws, ordinances, and department rules and regulations;
         b.   Skill in the use of the tools and equipment listed below;
         c.   Ability to train and supervise subordinate personnel; ability to
perform work requiring good physical condition; ability to communicate
effectively orally and in writing; ability to establish and maintain effective
working relationships with subordinates, peers, and supervisors; ability to
exercise sound judgment in evaluating situations and in making decisions;
ability to give verbal and written instructions; ability to meet the special
requirements list below.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Essential:
         a.   Plans, coordinates, supervises and evaluates police department
operations.
         b.   Develops policies and procedures for the department in order to
implement directives from the town council or mayor.
         c.   Plans and implements a law enforcement program for the town in
order to better carry out the policies and goals of the mayor and council;
reviews department performance and effectiveness; formulates programs or
policies to alleviate deficiencies.
         d.   Coordinates the information gathered and work accomplished by
various officers; assigns officers to special investigations as the needs arise
for their specific skills.
         e.   Assures that personnel are assigned to shifts or working units
which provide optimum effectiveness in terms of current situations and
circumstances governing deployment.
         f.   Evaluates evidence, witnesses, and suspects in criminal cases to
correlate all aspects and to assess for trends, similarities, or for
associations with other cases.
         g.   Supervises and coordinates the preparation and presentation of an
annual budget for the department; directs the implementation of the
department's budget; plans for and reviews specifications for new or replaced
equipment.
         h.   Directs the development and maintenance of systems, records and
legal documents that provide for the proper evaluation, control and
documentation of police department operations.
         i.   Trains and develops department personnel.
         j.   Handles grievances, maintains departmental discipline and the
conduct and general behavior of assigned personnel.
         k.   Prepares and submits periodic reports to the mayor regarding the
department's activities, and prepares a variety of other reports as
appropriate.
         l.   Meets with elected or appointed officials, other law enforcement
officials, community and business representatives and the public on all aspects
of the department's activities.
         m.   Attends conferences and meetings to keep abreast of current
trends in the field; represents the town police department in a variety of
local, county, state and other meetings.
         n.   Cooperates with county, state and federal law enforcement
officers as appropriate where activities of the police department are involved.
         o.   Ensures that laws and ordinances are enforced and that the public
peace and safety is maintained.
      2.   Peripheral Duties:
         a.   Directs investigation of major crime scenes.
         b.   Performs the duties of subordinate personnel as needed.
         c.   Analyzes and recommends improvements to equipment and facilities,
as needed.
      3.   Special Requirements:
         a.   Must possess or be able to obtain by the time of hire, a valid
Montana state driver's license without record of suspension or revocation in
any state;
         b.   Ability to meet department's physical standards;
         c.   Basic law enforcement training certification or equivalent.
   E.   Terms Of Employment:
      1.   Tools And Equipment Used: Police car, police radio, radar gun,
handgun and other weapons as required, side handle baton, handcuffs,
breathalyzer, pager, first aid equipment, personal computer including word
processing software.
      2.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to
sit and talk or hear. The employee is occasionally required to stand; walk; use
hands to finger, handle, or operate objects, controls, or tools listed above;
reach with hands and arms; climb or balance; stoop; kneel; crouch; or crawl;
and taste or smell.
The employee must occasionally lift and/or move more than one hundred (100)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision,
distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the
ability to adjust focus.
      3.   Work Environment: The work environment characteristics described
here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the
essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
While performing the duties of this job, the employee frequently works in
outside weather conditions. The employee occasionally works near moving
mechanical parts; in high, precarious places; and with explosives and is
occasionally exposed to wet and/or humid conditions, fumes or airborne
particles, toxic or caustic chemicals, extreme cold, extreme heat and
vibration.
The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate.
   F.   Selection Guidelines: Formal application, rating of education and
experience; oral interview and reference check; job related tests may be
required.
The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the various types
of work that may be performed. The omission of specific statements of duties
does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a
logical assignment to the position.
The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between the
employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs of
the employer and requirements of the job change. (2000 Code)
5-1-3: ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE AND/OR OTHER POLICE OFFICERS:
The Assistant Chief of Police and/or other police officers shall be under the
direct supervision and control of the Chief of Police and shall, in the absence
or disability of the Chief of Police, perform the duties of that officer. (1977
Code § 2.20.080; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-4: DUTIES OF POLICE:
The police officers of the Town shall carry out the orders of their superior
officers and observe the rules and regulations prescribed for the discipline of
the police force and shall follow the Manhattan Police Department law
enforcement policies and administrative directives and job descriptions adopted
March 14, 2006. (Ord. 07-008, 7-10-2007)
5-1-5: SPECIAL POLICEMEN:
Whenever the Mayor considers it necessary to increase the police force, he may
employ suitable persons as special policemen. (1977 Code § 2.20.100)
5-1-6: EXTENSION OF POLICE AUTHORITY:
The police personnel are given jurisdiction to make such arrests and pursue
such suspects within a five (5) mile radius of the Town, if the alleged
activity occurred within the Town. (1977 Code § 9.02.010)
5-1-7: AUTHORITY ALONG UTILITY LINES:
The police personnel are given jurisdiction to make such arrests and
investigate such activities occurring along any utility lines within or outside
and adjacent to the corporate limits of the Town. (1977 Code § 9.02.020)
5-1-8: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Sale Or Disposal:
      1.   All unclaimed, non-evidentiary personal property of a value more
than twenty dollars ($20.00), in the possession of the Manhattan Police
Department for a period of at least three (3) months, may be sold by the Town
at public auction for cash to the highest bidder or disposed of in any
appropriate manner not in conflict with any Federal, State, or local laws or
regulations.
      2.   The Manhattan Police Department shall attempt to notify the legal
owner of the unclaimed property by publishing a list of unclaimed property in
its custody the first week of January, April, July, and October of each
calendar year on the Town of Manhattan website.
      3.   A properly documented finder of unclaimed property that has been
held in Manhattan Police Department custody may take lawful possession of the
property, in a manner not in conflict with any Federal, State, or local laws
and regulations, if the property remains unclaimed for a period of at least
three (3) months.
      4.   Upon proof of legal ownership, the Manhattan Police Department shall
restore the unclaimed property to its legal owner.
   B.   Notice Of Sale Or Disposal:
      1.   If the subject property is to be sold at public auction or donated
or disposed of in any appropriate manner not in conflict with any Federal,
State, or local laws and regulations, or returned to a properly documented
finder, notice of the time and place of the public auction or disposal shall be
published not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the public
auction or disposal.
      2.   Notice pursuant to this section shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Town of Manhattan, at the Manhattan Post Office, and
on the Town of Manhattan website. (Ord. 19-001, 5-9-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Montana Criminal Code Adopted
5-2-2: Offenses Against Public Safety
5-2-2-1: Firearms
5-2-2-2: Bonfires (Rep. by Ord. 07-008, 7-10-2007)
5-2-2-3: Storage Of Explosives
5-2-2-4: Storage Of Flammable Liquids
5-2-2-5: Fireworks
5-2-2-6: Open Containers
5-2-2-7: Urination And Defecation
5-2-3: Offenses Against Property
5-2-3-1: Damage To Public Property
5-2-3-2: Utility Poles And Fixtures
5-2-3-3: Shrubs, Trees, Grass, Flowers
5-2-3-4: Advertisements
5-2-3-5: Handbills
5-2-4: Penalty
5-2-1: MONTANA CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Montana criminal code of 1973 1 , as amended, are hereby
adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2000
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 45-1-101 et seq.
5-2-2: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY:
5-2-2-1: FIREARMS:
   A.   Unlawful To Fire Weapon In Town: It shall be unlawful to shoot,
discharge or fire any gun, firearm, air gun or slingshot within the corporate
limits of the town, except as provided in subsection B of this section. (1977
Code § 9.32.010)
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be considered to prohibit the
firing of a gun, pistol, or other firearm when done in the lawful defense of
the person, property, or family or in the necessary enforcement of the law.
(1977 Code § 9.32.020)
5-2-2-2: BONFIRES:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-008, 7-10-2007)
5-2-2-3: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
Except as provided in Montana Code Annotated section 50-61-120, it is unlawful
for any person to keep or permit to be kept, any giant powder, nitroglycerin,
dynamite, or other highly explosive compound within the town or within three
(3) miles of the corporate limits of the town. (1977 Code § 9.08.030; amd. 2000
Code)
5-2-2-4: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Outside Aboveground Tanks: It is unlawful for any person to store
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks, except in areas of the town
zoned industrial.
   B.   Bulk Plants: No person within the town shall store flammable or
combustible liquids or liquefied petroleum gas in new bulk plants except in
areas which are zoned industrial. (1977 Code § 9.08.040)
5-2-2-5: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Display Restricted:
      1.   Dates; Hours Permitted: All displays of fireworks shall only be
allowed on the following dates and times:
      2.   July 3- from the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      3.   July 4- from the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on July 5.
      4.   December 31- from the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
      5.   Display Not Permitted: Except for the period of time described
above, no person shall display fireworks of any kind within the town limits
without a permit.
      6.    Location: Fireworks displays, without a permit, shall be prohibited
within the boundaries of any public park or property owned or controlled by the
town of Manhattan, this includes public streets and alleyways, other than on
July 4, when displays shall be allowed on the residential nonarterial streets
providing such use does not hinder the free use of the roadway.
Fireworks are permitted only on private property with permission of the
landowner. The user of the fireworks shall immediately clean up any debris
falling on public or private property. Failure to do so shall be considered a
violation of this code and subject to the penalties as set out in section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Permits For Supervise Public Displays Required:
      1.   Permit For Supervised Public Displays: The town may grant a permit
for supervised public displays of fireworks to be held by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
upon application.
      2.   Application For Permit: The applicant shall submit an application
for permit to the Manhattan police department at least thirty (30) days in
advance of the date of the proposed display. The application shall include the
name, address and telephone number of the applicant, the name of the group, the
proposed location of the display and a contact person on the day of the
display.
      3.   Permits Not Transferable: No permit granted under this section is
transferable.
      4.   Display: Each display shall be handled by a competent operator who
must be approved by the town. The display must be located as not to be
hazardous to persons or property. The chief of the Manhattan police department
must approve the proposed location. The permit shall contain a waiver of
liability for the town.
      5.   Bond Required: A successful applicant shall obtain liability
insurance coverage in the amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence for the event/
display, shall name the Town as an additional insured on the policy and shall
provide a copy of the certificate of insurance to the Town at least 10 days
before the event/display. Further, the applicant shall indemnify, defend and
hold the Town harmless from any claims, causes of actions, or complaints which
arise out of applicant’s display or any other events surrounding the display.
   C.   Sales Permitted: It is unlawful for any person to offer for sale,
expose for sale, or sell at retail or wholesale, within the corporate limits of
the town, any fireworks of any nature whatsoever other than on June 30 to July
5 and December 31 of each year.
   D.   Types Of Fireworks Permitted: Permitted fireworks are class C
fireworks, or common fireworks, as defined in sections 50-37-101 and 105,
Montana Code Annotated. It shall be unlawful to compound fireworks, or use
fireworks in any way other than their intended use. A violation of this section
is subject to the penalties set out in section
1-4-2 of this code and also section 50-37-110, Montana Code Annotated.
   E.   Supervision Required: No parent of any child under the age of majority,
eighteen (18), shall knowingly permit or consent to the possession or discharge
of fireworks by any child under the age of majority within the city limits
without adult supervision. No person under the age of majority shall possess or
discharge fireworks without the permission or supervision of a parent or
guardian. A violation of this section is subject to the penalties set out in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 300, 12-14-2004; amd. Ord. 11-001, 4-14-2011; Ord.
21-001, 3-11-2021)
5-2-2-6: OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   Definitions:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, also called ethanol, or the hydrated oxide of
ethyl.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: A compound produced and sold for human consumption as a
drink that contains more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   BEER: A malt beverage containing not more than seven percent (7%) of alcohol
by weight.
   INTOXICATING SUBSTANCE: A controlled substance, as defined in title 50,
chapter 32, Montana Code Annotated or its successor provision, and an alcoholic
beverage, including, but not limited to, a beverage containing 1/2 of 1% or
more of alcohol by volume. Intoxicating substance does not include
dealcoholized wine or a beverage or liquid produced by the process by which
beer, ale, port, or wine is produced if it contains less than 1/2 of 1% of
alcohol by volume.
   POSSESSION: The knowing control of anything for a sufficient time to be able
to terminate control.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Means and includes
the carrying and exhibiting of open cans or bottles of any alcoholic beverage
or the carrying and exhibiting of glasses, cups, or other types of containers
for alcoholic beverages, to, in, on or within any public place within the town,
even though empty, but does not include carrying or transporting such alcoholic
beverages from retail liquor or beer establishments in sacks, cases, boxes,
cartons or similar containers with unbroken seals and does not include carrying
or exhibiting any empty or discarded bottle, can or other container solely for
the purpose of disposal in a proper waste receptacle.
   PUBLIC DRINKING: Includes the consumption or possession, for the purpose of
consumption, of open alcoholic beverages in or on any public place in the town.
   PUBLIC PLACE: All streets, avenues, alleys and parks in the town, all
municipal and public buildings, and places to which the public or a substantial
group has access, but does not include premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages at retail by the department of revenue of the state, or the
town. "Public place" does not include a private residence and its contiguous
real property (front or rear yard) or a private hotel or motel room so long as
the possession and consumption is in compliance with the Montana alcoholic
beverage code, title 45 of the Montana Code Annotated and this chapter, but
does include the commonly shared areas such as common hallways of a building or
apartment complex, and areas of town right of way, including sidewalks and
streets.
   B.   Public Drinking Or Display Of Open Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited:
Public drinking or display or exhibition of open alcoholic beverages (open
container) as defined in subsection A of this section is prohibited, and it is
unlawful for any person to engage in public drinking, public display or
exhibition of open alcoholic beverages (open container) within the town.
   C.   Public Consumption In Vehicles Prohibited: No person shall drink or
consume an intoxicating substance or alcoholic beverage in or on any motor
vehicle when such vehicle is upon a public highway or in a public place. No
person shall have in his/her possession while in or on a motor vehicle while in
a public place, a container of an alcoholic beverage which has been opened or
the seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed.
It is unlawful for the owner of any motor vehicle or the driver, if the owner
is not present in or on the motor vehicle, to keep or allow to be kept in the
vehicle when such vehicle is in a public place, any bottle, can or other
receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or the seal
broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, except when such
bottle or receptacle shall be kept in the trunk of the motor vehicle, or kept
in some other area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or
passenger, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. A utility
compartment or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied
by the driver and passengers.
   D.   Exceptions; Permits Allowed:
      1.   A permit may be granted by the Manhattan police department
("department") to permit persons to possess or consume alcoholic beverages in a
public place, for purposes such as picnics, parties, reunions, barbecues, or
other public assemblies in public places, upon application and approval.
      2.   A permit may be granted, within the sole discretion of the
department. The application must include the following:
         a.   The application shall designate either the applicant, or one or
more members of the group submitting the application as the contact person for
the event. The contact person shall be present at all times during the event,
or shall arrange for an alternate contact person. The contact person shall be
in charge of the event and be responsible for those attending the event.
         b.   The application shall be filed a minimum of fourteen (14) days
before the event. An application not acted upon within ten (10) days of its
submission shall be deemed denied.
         c.   The application shall include proof of insurance in an amount
acceptable to the town and which includes the town as an additional insured in
cases where the event is expected to include seventy five (75) persons or more.
         d.   The department may include conditions as part of the permit
approval and has the discretion to withdraw or revoke the permit at any time if
it appears that the event will adversely impact the town or any of its
inhabitants, including, but not limited to, the safe and orderly movement of
pedestrian or vehicle traffic and any significant negative impact on
individuals living in the vicinity of the activity or event, or when a public
emergency exists.
         e.   The application shall be accompanied by a fee to the department.
The fee shall be set by the town council by resolution and is a nonrefundable
fee to cover administrative costs of processing the application. Payment of the
fee does not entitle the applicant to approval for the permit.
         f.   If the event is to be held on a regular or recurring basis at the
same location, an application for a permit for the calendar year or any portion
thereof may be filed at least sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred
eighty (180) days before the date and time of the first event proposed. The
department, as appropriate, may waive the minimum filing period after due
consideration of all necessary facts.
         g.   A denial of the application may be reconsidered by the town
council upon request by the applicant. (Ord. 05-001, 1-11-2005)
   E.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
chapter for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
5-2-2-7: URINATION AND DEFECATION:
   A.   Definitions:
    PUBLIC PLACE: All streets, avenues, alleys and parks in the town, all
municipal and public buildings, and places to which the public or a substantial
group has access, and includes the commonly shared areas such as common
hallways of a building or apartment complex, and areas of town right of way,
including sidewalks and streets.
   B.   Public Urination And Defecation Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to urinate or defecate on or in any public place, or on private property
open to public view, except in restrooms and facilities provided for such
purposes. (Ord. 05-002, 1-11-2005)
   C.   Penalties For Violations Of This Section: Any person violating a
provision of this chapter for which another penalty has not been provided
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
5-2-3: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
5-2-3-1: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully and maliciously break, cut, tear down, destroy, or in
any manner injure any motor vehicle, trailer, fire plug, machinery, hose, tool,
utensil, or other property of any kind, belonging to or connected with the fire
department of the town, or any jail, door, furniture, fixture, or other
property of any kind, belonging to the town or any department thereof, or any
public building, or schoolhouse. (1977 Code § 9.20.010)
5-2-3-2: UTILITY POLES AND FIXTURES:
No person shall interfere with, cut, remove, break or destroy any telephone or
electric light wires, poles or fixtures, nor shall and person fasten any
structure or portion of structure to any utility pole or fixture. (Ord. 07-008,
7-10-2007)
5-2-3-3: SHRUBS, TREES, GRASS, FLOWERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any way, injure or destroy grass,
trees, shrubs or flowers growing upon any public grounds or in any flower
container or planter or anything placed in such places of a useful or
ornamental character. (Ord. 07-008, 7-10-2007)
5-2-3-4: ADVERTISEMENTS:
No person shall post, affix, place, write, draw or paint, or cause to be
posted, affixed or otherwise attached, any advertisement, notice, handbill or
placard on any telephone or electric light pole, tree, street sign or traffic
information or control sign, lamppost, fire hydrant, or town or other public
building. Advertisements on benches may be installed and maintained on public
boulevards and street rights of way. (Ord. 07-008, 7-10-2007)
5-2-3-5: HANDBILLS:
   A.   Defined: "Handbill" means and includes any printed or written matter,
any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced matter.
   B.   Restrictions; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person to distribute,
deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any handbill in any public place or on
any private premises, except it shall not be unlawful:
      1.   To distribute any handbill in any public or private place to any
person willing to accept the same.
      2.   For a newspaper to distribute its newspapers on both public and
private property.
      3.   For a licensed distributor to distribute handbills in secured
containers which are firmly attached to doors on private premises; provided,
that such distribution shall not be made to persons requesting discontinuance
thereof in writing.
      4.   To distribute official notices from governmental bodies. (1977 Code
§ 9.20.050; amd. 2000 Code)
5-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (1977 Code §§ 9.08.070, 9.20.050, 9.32.030; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Time Limitations For Minors
5-3-2: Penalty
5-3-1: TIME LIMITATIONS FOR MINORS:
From and after the passage date hereof, it shall be unlawful for minor persons,
under the age of majority (18 years) to be on the streets or in any public
place, within the jurisdictional limits of the town after the hour of ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M., until the hour of four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the
next day, on weeknights and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the weekends.
Weekend nights are Friday and Saturday. Except by written permission of the
parent or guardian or other adult person having control of such minor, or
unless said minor person be accompanied by some relative, guardian, parent,
custodian or other proper person; provided however, that this provision shall
not apply to any minor under the age above mentioned engaged in any lawful
occupation or business for the purpose of earning a living. Exception to the
above mentioned times may be made for school events such as dances, games and
other special functions. In that event, the hours mentioned above will be
extended by one-half (1/2) hour from the completion of the school or other
special event. (Ord. 07-010, 7-10-2007)
5-3-2: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
civil infraction; and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of seventy
five dollars ($75.00) or by a sentence of up to ten (10) hours of community
service, or both. Citations for a curfew violation will be issued to the
parents or guardians of the minor persons. The minor person will be returned to
the custody of a parent or guardian; and any minor so found upon the streets or
in any public place after or before the proper hours shall exhibit to any
officer demanding the proper permit, unless properly attended or accompanied as
in this chapter provided, or engaged in some lawful business; and on his or her
failing or refusing to exhibit such permit, when so demanded, shall be prima
facie evidence that the minor is in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 07-010, 7-
10-2007)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Dogs
5-4-2-1: Licensing And Registration
5-4-2-2: Vaccination
5-4-2-3: Impoundment
5-4-2-4: Vicious Dogs
5-4-2-5: Licensee's Liability; Transfer Of Ownership
5-4-2-6: Fines Imposed
5-4-2-7: Licensing And Registration After Conviction
5-4-3: Owning Certain Animals Prohibited
5-4-4: Animals At Large
5-4-5: Nuisance Animals
5-4-6: Power To Demand Exhibition Of Animal Or License
5-4-7: Interference With Animal Control Officer
5-4-8: Cruelty To Animals
5-4-9: Provoking Animals
5-4-10: Animal Waste
5-4-11: Penalty
5-4-12: Keeping Of Chickens
5-4-13: Keeping Of Exotic Animals
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms shall have the following meanings ascribed to each:
ANIMAL: Any livestock or other farm animal or any domestic pet or game animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: An individual whose duty it is to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, including apprehending dogs whose owners are in
violation of this chapter, responding to complaints about violations, and
delivery of the dogs to the animal shelter.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by the town council for the purpose of
impounding and caring for dogs and any other animal in violation of this
chapter.
AT LARGE: Any animal off the premises of the owner and not under the leash
control of a competent person.
DOG: Any canine animal of either sex (whether spayed or neutered), or any
dingo, wolf, coyote, or cross that is being kept as a dog.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any wild or other animal which is not tame by nature and
includes, but is not limited to: monkey, potbellied pig under seventy five (75)
pounds, member of the feline species other than domestic cat (Felis
domesticus), or any other animal that would require a standard of care and
control greater than that required for customary household pets sold by pet
shops or domestic farm animals. The term "exotic animal" does not include farm
animals, rodents, domesticated ferrets, and captive bred species of fish and
common cage birds.
KENNEL: Any premises where more than two (2) dogs are permanently kept which
are over six (6) months of age.
NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal that destroys property, harasses, chases a person
or other animal, or for prolonged periods howls, barks, yelps, or by other
means causes annoyance or disturbance to any person.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog or other animal.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog which destroys or injures any other animal or bites or
attempts to bite any human being or animal without provocation. (1977 Code §
8.04.010; amd. Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007; Ord. 16-002, 3-10-2016, eff. 4-10-2016)
5-4-2: DOGS:
5-4-2-1: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION:
   A.   License:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor, or maintain any dog over six (6) months of age unless such dog is duly
licensed in the town or deemed exempt as herein provided. Licenses shall be
obtained at the town office.
      2.   Vaccination Certificate Required: Before a license is issued, the
owner of such dog must present a certificate from a veterinarian stating that
such dog has received a rabies vaccination. The certificate must show that the
rabies vaccination will cover the full licensing period.
   B.   License Tags:
      1.   Application; Fee: The owner shall make an application for a dog
license and pay the required fee.
      2.   Issuance Of Tag: The owner will receive a license tag imprinted with
the license number and the year issued.
      3.   Worn By Dog: The license and rabies tag shall be attached to a
collar and worn by the dog for whom it was issued.
      4.   Transfer Of Tag Prohibited: Dog licenses are not transferable from
one dog to another.
   C.   Term Of License: Every dog or kennel which is required to be licensed
under this section shall have an annual license. Licenses herein provided shall
be due and payable on or before January 1 of each year and delinquent on March
1 of each year. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year of
issuance. (1977 Code § 8.04.020; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   Exempt From Being Licensed: The following dogs are exempt from being
licensed:
         a.   Any dog temporarily within the town for thirty (30) days or less,
whose owner, keeper, or possessor is a nonresident. (Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007)
      2.   Exempt From License Fees: The following dogs shall be licensed, but
exempt from fees:
         a.   Any dog properly trained to assist the blind or deaf and is
acting in that capacity.
         b.   Any government owned police service dog. (1977 Code § 8.04.020;
amd. 2000 Code)
   E.   Kennels:
      1.   Prohibited; Exceptions; Definition: There shall be no "kennels"
allowed within the town limits of the town of Manhattan, except as provided
below. "Kennel" means any premises where more than two (2) adult dogs are
permanently kept. "Adult dog" means any dog over the age of six (6) months.
      2.   Number Of Dogs Allowed: Two (2) adult dogs are allowed for each
residence. An application to keep, harbor or maintain more than two (2) adult
dogs at a residence must be made to and approved by the town council. Approval
may be given, in the discretion of the town council, on a case by case basis,
and in accordance with the requirements set out below. Application for each dog
over the two (2) allowed, must be made separately.
      3.   Requirements; Permit Application, Fee:
         a.   The application must be accompanied by written approval (i.e.,
petition format) of the application by eighty percent (80%) of the property
owners within two hundred feet (200') in any direction from the property line
of the residence of the applicant. Names and addresses of the property owners
and/or occupants shall be supplied by the applicant.
         b.   Each application must be accompanied by a fee of thirty dollars
($30.00). In addition, thirty dollars ($30.00) will be paid to the town of
Manhattan for each renewal. This results in a charge of thirty dollars ($30.00)
for each application for each dog, and thirty dollars ($30.00) for each renewal
for each dog. (Ord. 269, 3-6-2001)
         c.   If granted, the permit must be renewed each year. All new and
existing permits must be renewed on or before February 1 of each year. The
renewal must be accompanied by written approval as set out under subsection E3a
of this section and the renewal fee.
The town council may review any permit granted under this section upon formal
complaint about the dogs and/or against the person holding the permit. In the
event that a complaint is made and is substantiated, the permit may be revoked
by the town council. In the event the permit is revoked, the dog owner shall
then have no longer than thirty (30) days to remove any animals in excess of
the number allowed by law. (Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007)
      4.   Renewal: All permits, either granted under this subsection E or
previously, must be renewed on an annual basis. Renewals shall be made before
February 1 of each year.
      5.   Violation; Fines: It is unlawful to have more than two (2) dogs
harbored or maintained on a premises without a current permit. If, after ninety
(90) days of notice of violation of this subsection E, more than two (2) dogs
remain on the premises, the fine doubles for each dog over the allowed two (2).
(Ord. 269, 3-6-2001)
Violation of this subsection E is punishable as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code.
   F.   Fees:
 
License:                                        
 Spayed females or neutered males      $10.00
 Unaltered male or female              20.00
                                        
Impound fee                             15.00  plus the costs of impound
                                        
Kennel fee (see subsection E3b of this          
section)
 
(Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007)
5-4-2-2: VACCINATION:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog to keep a dog over six (6) months
of age that is not currently vaccinated against rabies as verified by a
veterinarian. Every dog which is required to be vaccinated shall wear a collar
with a tag showing current rabies vaccination. The collar may be removed only
when the dog is under the immediate control of its owner or authorized agent.
(1977 Code § 8.04.060)
5-4-2-3: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Power To Impound: Dogs which are determined by the animal control
officer or police officer to be at large may be impounded.
   B.   Complaint: The animal control officer or police officer may impound
such dogs upon personal observation or in response to a documented and
reasonable complaint made by an identified person. A person making said
complaint shall accompany the complaint with his or her name and address, a
description of the dog in question, and of the activity or behavior of the
subject dog which is in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Animal Shelter: Dogs found at large shall be impounded in an animal
shelter designated by the town council and confined in a humane manner for a
period of seventy two (72) hours, unless sooner claimed by their owner.
   D.   Unclaimed Dogs: Any dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter
and not reclaimed by its owner within seventy two (72) hours may be humanely
destroyed or placed in custody of a public entity such as the Humane Society or
some person deemed to be a responsible and suitable person to be the owner of
such dog.
   E.   Sick Or Injured Dogs: The animal control officer or police officer may
direct the destruction of any sick or injured dog which has been impounded
without holding it for seventy two (72) hours if its condition is such that it
makes its earlier destruction necessary and desirable. (1977 Code § 8.04.070)
   F.   Reclaimed By Owner; Fees: Any dog impounded hereunder may be reclaimed
as herein provided upon payment of a boarding fee and impounding fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) by the owner to the town.
   G.   Disclaimer: Any owner may not avoid a boarding fee by disclaiming any
future interest in a dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter.
   H.   Action For Recovery Of Fees: The town council may bring an action in
the name of the town to recover any boarding fee due and owing in the city
court. (1977 Code § 8.04.070; amd. 2000 Code)
5-4-2-4: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Prohibited: Any person who keeps, feeds, harbors, or allows to stay
about the premises occupied or controlled by such person within the town, any
vicious dog, shall be subject to the penalties set out in section
1-4-2 of this code and the dog shall be destroyed or permanently removed from
the jurisdictional limits of the town. (Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007)
   B.   Dog Bites:
      1.   Must Be Reported: If a dog, including, but not limited to, vicious
dogs, bites a person in the town, such dog bite shall immediately be reported
to the animal control officer or police officer and the county health
department.
      2.   Order To Surrender Animal:
         a.   Owner Known: The animal control officer or police officer may
issue an order requiring the owner of such dog to surrender the dog to the
animal shelter, or at the owner's expense, to a licensed veterinarian.
         b.   Owner Unknown: In the event the owner is unknown or the dog is
running at large, the animal control officer or police officer shall seize and
impound such dog without notice.
      3.   Unable To Seize And Impound: If the vicious dog is running at large
and the animal control officer or police officer is unable to seize and impound
such dog, the dog may be killed by any law enforcement officer without notice.
      4.   Quarantine: All dogs impounded under this section shall be
quarantined for the period and under the same conditions as stated in section
5-4-2-3 of this chapter.
      5.   Proof Of Current Rabies Vaccination: If the owner of the dog can
prove current rabies vaccination, the animal control officer or police officer
may, within his discretion, order the dog to be quarantined at the owner's
residence. (1977 Code § 8.04.040)
5-4-2-5: LICENSEE'S LIABILITY; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
In all prosecutions for violations of this chapter, the person who applied for
and obtained the license for the dog in question shall be deemed the person
responsible for the violation unless there has been a transfer of ownership
prior to the violation. Any transfer of ownership must be evidenced by a
transfer license issued by the town clerk-treasurer. A transfer license may be
obtained by furnishing the name and address of the transferee to the town
clerk-treasurer. (1977 Code § 8.04.120)
5-4-2-6: FINES IMPOSED:
   A.   Dogs at large:
      1.   Conviction of first offense, twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Conviction of second offense relating to the same dog, fifty dollars
($50.00).
      3.   Conviction of third or subsequent offense relating to the same dog,
one hundred dollars ($100.00), with a mandatory court appearance. (Ord. 16-003,
7-13-2016)
   B.   Unlicensed dog, fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Nonvaccination, fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Nuisance dog:
      1.   Conviction of first offense, fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Conviction of second offense relating to same dog, one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Conviction of three (3) or more offenses shall be punished by a fine
of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   E.   Vicious dog, one hundred dollars ($100.00). Upon conviction the court
may order the dog destroyed or permanently removed from the jurisdictional
limits of the town. (Ord. 07-009, 7-10-2007)
5-4-2-7: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION AFTER CONVICTION:
Upon conviction of possessing an unlicensed dog, the possessor or owner of the
dog shall purchase a license and register the dog pursuant to section
5-4-2-1 of this chapter. The licensing must occur within thirty (30) days after
conviction of possessing or owning an unlicensed dog. Failure to comply with
this chapter shall constitute a violation hereof and upon conviction, the
person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(1977 Code § 8.04.131)
5-4-3: OWNING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain within the town limits any cattle, sheep, horses, swine, excluding
potbellied pigs, llamas, alpacas, bison, ostriches, rheas, emus, goats,
turkeys, ducks, geese or other fowl. This section shall include the keeping of
all animals deemed by the council to be offensive or bothersome.
   B.   Common Household Pets Excepted: Nothing in this section shall be read
to prohibit the keeping and maintenance of common household pets; provided,
however, no person shall keep or maintain, as a matter of course, in one
residence or on the premises of one residence, more than two (2) dogs, or two
(2) cats, or two (2) rabbits, or one exotic animal, or any combination not to
exceed four (4) pets. (Ord. 16-002, 3-10-2016, eff. 4-10-2016)
   C.   Variance: Discretion is hereby granted to the town council to permit,
for reasonable periods of time, variances in this section for certain
unpopulated areas within the town limits where persons have, in the past, been
accustomed to keeping animals described in subsection A of this section. Upon
the filing of a complaint with the town council respecting such variances, a
notice shall be served by the town in accordance with subsection D of this
section and upon the serving of such notice, such variance shall cease and
thereafter be subject to the provisions of this section. (1977 Code § 8.08.050)
   D.   Notice Of Violation: Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be served with a written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. (1977 Code § 8.08.030)
   E.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection D of this section shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set
forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
5-4-4: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
The owner or keeper of any animal within the town limits shall at all times
prohibit said animal from being at large. All dogs running at large shall be
subject to impoundment. (1977 Code § 8.04.030)
5-4-5: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisance Animals Prohibited: Any person who keeps, feeds, harbors, or
allows to stay about the premises occupied or controlled by such person within
the town any nuisance animal is guilty of a municipal infraction and shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
   B.   Procedure Prior To Investigation: Before a violation of this section
will be investigated and considered for prosecution, the following conditions
shall occur:
      1.   Submittal Of Written Complaint: A written complaint shall be
submitted to the animal control officer or police officer. The complaint shall
identify the complainant by name, address and telephone number.
      2.   Contents Of Complaint: The complaint shall contain the following
information: the name, if known, and address of the owner of the animal, the
location of the disturbance and a description of the animal. (1977 Code §
8.04.050)
      3.   Activity Log: The complaint may include a log maintained, dated and
signed by the complainant. The log shall state and identify the activities of
the animal for a period of not less than two (2) calendar days immediately
preceding the filing of the complaint. (1977 Code § 8.04.050; amd. 2000 Code)
5-4-6: POWER TO DEMAND EXHIBITION OF ANIMAL OR LICENSE:
For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and enforcing
its provisions, the animal control officer or police officer is empowered to
demand from the occupants of any premises upon or in which a dog or other
animal is kept or harbored, the exhibition of such dog or other animal and the
license for such dog. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse such
demands. (1977 Code § 8.04.080)
5-4-7: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to hinder, detain, or interfere with the animal
control officer in the performance of any duty or power imposed on him by this
chapter, or release, or attempt to release, any animal in the custody of the
animal control officer, except as herein provided. (1977 Code § 8.04.090)
5-4-8: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and cruelly inflict upon or injure
any animal. (1977 Code § 8.04.100)
5-4-9: PROVOKING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to provoke, tease, torment, or in any way disturb
a dog or other animal. (1977 Code § 8.04.110)
5-4-10: ANIMAL WASTE:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: No person who owns, possesses, or exercises
control over any animal located within the town limits shall allow that animal
to defecate on any streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, parking lots, or other
places open to the public without immediately cleaning up, removing and
properly disposing of the feces in a safe manner. (1977 Code § 8.12.010)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a municipal infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
5-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, unless specified otherwise,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1977 Code § 8.04.130; amd. 2000 Code)
5-4-12: KEEPING OF CHICKENS:
   A.   Keeping Of Chickens Lawful: Subject to the standards in this section,
it shall be lawful to keep female domestic chickens (hens) over the age of
three (3) months, or either sex domestic chickens under the age of three (3)
months, or any combination thereof not to exceed the total allowed per permit
holder.
   B.   Specific Standards For Chickens:
      1.   No male chickens (roosters) over the age of three (3) months are
permitted.
      2.   No chickens may run at large within the corporate limits of the town
of Manhattan. All chickens must be contained within the permittee's property
boundary.
      3.   The permittee shall provide the chickens with a covered,
predatorproof chicken house that is thoroughly ventilated, of sufficient size
to admit free movement of the chickens. The chicken house must be adjacent to
and provide free access to the chicken enclosure. Any heat source or electrical
facilities installed in a chicken house must comply with all adopted building
and electrical codes of the town of Manhattan.
      4.   Chickens shall be secured within the chicken house from sunset to
sunrise.
      5.   Chicken enclosures and houses must be kept in a neat and sanitary
condition at all times and must be cleaned on a regular basis so as to prevent
offensive odors.
      6.   Chickens shall have continuous access to adequate food and water.
      7.   Stored feed must be kept in rodentproof and predatorproof container.
      8.   Chickens shall be maintained in a healthy condition. Ill chickens
shall either receive appropriate medical care or be culled.
      9.   No chicken house or chicken enclosure shall be located in a front
yard. No chicken house shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') to any
structure inhabited by someone other than the chicken owner, custodian, or
keeper; not closer than ten feet (10') to any neighbor's property line or
public alley; and not closer than twenty feet (20') from any property line
along a public street or roadway. Chicken houses may be movable but must comply
with all standards of this section.
      10.   No chicken shall be kept in a manner so as to create noxious odors
or noise of a loud, persistent and habitual manner.
      11.   No chickens shall be slaughtered within the public view.
      12.   The number of chickens shall be limited to four (4) chickens on a
three thousand (3,000) square foot lot and one chicken for each additional one
thousand (1,000) square feet up to a maximum of fifteen (15) chickens per
permit holder.
   C.   Permits Required:
      1.   Prior to the keeping of any chicken(s), a party seeking to keep
chickens shall obtain a permit from the town of Manhattan. A permit fee of
thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be paid upon application and upon each renewal.
The fee may be revised by resolution of the town council from time to time.
Only one permit shall be issued per household. Issuance of a permit is a
discretionary act. Permits must be renewed on or before January 1 of each year
and are delinquent if not renewed by March 1 of each year.
      2.   The owner of the chickens shall keep a copy of all signed town
approval documents for inspection upon request by the town or an agent thereof.
It shall be a violation of this section to refuse to provide such documents
when requested.
      3.   A permit for chickens under this section does not relieve any party
from any requirement to obtain any other permit or other necessary approvals
for any structure, fence, lighting, heat source, etc., as required by this
code.
      4.   A party wishing to keep chickens shall submit an application to the
town of Manhattan. The application shall contain the following:
         a.   A sketch identifying the property boundaries and showing the lot
area in square feet, the location of all structures on the property and
distances between said structures and between the property boundaries. The
sketch must also indicate the location(s) of the chicken enclosure and chicken
house.
         b.   The name, address, and signed statement of the property owner, if
different from the applicant, consenting to the keeping of the applied for
number of chickens on the property.
         c.   The number of chickens to be kept in accordance with subsection
B12 of this section.
         d.   A description of the enclosure and chicken house, including
materials used and cubic footage(s).
         e.   A sworn statement that all statements contained in the
application are true and that the permit holder shall keep the chickens in
compliance with the terms of the permit, application and this section.
         f.   The application must be accompanied by written approval (i.e.,
petition format) of the application by eighty percent (80%) of the property
owners within two hundred feet (200') in any direction from the property line
of the residence of the applicant. Name and addresses of the property owners
and/or occupants shall be supplied by the applicant. Each property shall only
be allowed one signature on the application.
         g.   If granted, the permit must be renewed each year. All new and
existing permits must be renewed on or before January 1 of each year. The
renewal must be accompanied by written approval as set out under subsection C4f
of this section and with the property owner's consent, if applicable.
      5.   The town council may review any permit granted under this section
upon formal complaint about the chickens and/or against the person holding the
permit. In the event that a complaint is made and is substantiated, the permit
may be revoked by the town council. In the event the permit is revoked, the
chicken owner shall then have no longer than thirty (30) days to remove any
chickens from the property.
      6.   A permit to keep chickens is specific to the permit holder and the
location of the permit. A person wishing to move chickens to a different
property shall obtain a new permit. A new resident of a property who intends to
keep chickens shall obtain a new permit regardless of whether chickens were
kept on the property or continue to be kept on the property.
      7.   Approval of a permit to keep chickens authorizes the permit holder
to keep only the number of chickens in the manner described on the application
and permit.
      8.   Changes to the standards contained in this section shall require any
permit holder to comply with any new standard, regulation, or condition and no
notice to a permit holder is required prior to enforcement of any new standard
beyond that required for adoption of a new or revised ordinance.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section is punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. In addition thereto, the court may, upon conviction
thereof, terminate all ownership rights in the chickens, order that the
chickens be permanently removed from the town limits, or order that the
chickens be destroyed at the owner's expense. It is the intent of the town
council to impose absolute liability for the offenses described in this
section. (Ord. 09-003, 1-12-2010, eff. 3-9-2010)
5-4-13: KEEPING OF EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Of Exotic Animals Lawful: Subject to the standards in this
section, it shall be lawful to keep one exotic animal per household.
   B.   Specific Standards For Exotic Animals:
      1.   All exotic animals must be registered with the town of Manhattan
yearly.
      2.   No exotic animals may run at large within the corporate limits of
the town of Manhattan. All exotic animals must be contained within the
permittee's property boundary.
      3.   The permittee shall provide the exotic animal with appropriate
housing and/or shelter. The exotic animal's enclosure or yard must be kept in a
neat and sanitary condition at all times and all excrement must be picked up on
a regular basis so as to prevent offensive odors.
      4.   Exotic animals shall have continuous access to adequate food and
water.
      5.   Stored feed must be kept in rodentproof and predatorproof
containers.
      6.   Exotic animals shall be maintained in a healthy condition. Ill
animals must receive appropriate medical care.
      7.   No exotic animal shall be kept in a manner so as to create noxious
odors or noise of a loud, persistent and habitual manner.
      8.   All exotic animals must be spayed or neutered.
      9.   All necessary vaccinations, including, but not limited to, the
rabies vaccine, are required.
   C.   Permits Required:
      1.   Prior to the keeping of any exotic animal, a party seeking to keep
the animal shall obtain a permit from the town of Manhattan. A permit fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid upon application and upon each renewal.
The fee may be revised by resolution of the town council from time to time.
Only one permit shall be issued per household. Issuance of a permit is a
discretionary act. Permits must be renewed on or before January 1 of each year
and are delinquent if not renewed by March 1 of each year.
      2.   The owner of the exotic animal shall keep a copy of all signed town
approval documents for inspection upon request by the town or an agent thereof.
It shall be a violation of this section to refuse to provide such documents
when requested.
      3.   A permit for an exotic animal under this section does not relieve
any party from any requirement to obtain any other permit or other necessary
approvals for any structure, fence, lighting, heat source, etc., as required by
this code.
      4.   A party wishing to keep an exotic animal shall submit an application
to the town of Manhattan. The application shall contain the following:
         a.   The name, address, and signed statement of the property owner, if
different from the applicant, consenting to the keeping of the exotic animal on
the property.
         b.   A sworn statement that all statements contained in the
application are true and that the permit holder shall keep the exotic animal in
compliance with the terms of the permit, application and this section.
         c.   The application must be accompanied by written approval (i.e.,
petition format) of the application by eighty percent (80%) of the property
owners within two hundred feet (200') in any direction from the property line
of the residence of the applicant. Name and addresses of the property owners
and/or occupants shall be supplied by the applicant. Each property shall only
be allowed one signature on the application.
         d.   If granted, the permit must be renewed each year. All new and
existing permits must be renewed on or before January 1 of each year. The
renewal must be accompanied by written approval as set out under subsection C4c
of this section and with the property owner's consent, if applicable.
      5.   The town council may review any permit granted under this section
upon a formal written complaint about the exotic animal and/or against the
person holding the permit. In the event that a complaint is made and is
substantiated, the permit may be revoked by the town council. In the event the
permit is revoked, the exotic animal owner may request a hearing to show the
council why the permit should not be revoked. Following the hearing, if the
council determines the permit revocation was correct, the animal owner shall
then have no longer than thirty (30) days to remove the exotic animal from the
property.
      6.   A permit to keep an exotic animal is specific to the permit holder
and the location of the permit. A person wishing to move an exotic animal to a
different property shall obtain a new permit. A new resident of a property who
intends to keep an exotic animal shall obtain a new permit regardless of
whether exotic animals were kept on the property or continue to be kept on the
property.
      7.   Changes to the standards contained in this section shall require any
permit holder to comply with any new standard, regulation, or condition and no
notice to a permit holder is required prior to enforcement of any new standard
beyond that required for adoption of a new or revised ordinance.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section is punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. In addition thereto, the court may, upon conviction
thereof, terminate all ownership rights of the exotic animal, order that the
exotic animal be permanently removed from the town limits, or order that the
exotic animal be destroyed at the owner's expense. It is the intent of the town
council to impose absolute liability for the offenses described in this
section. (Ord. 16-002, 3-10-2016, eff. 4-10-2016)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC DISPLAY OR DISTRIBUTION OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Prohibited Acts
5-5-3: Exemption
5-5-4: Defense
5-5-5: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following definitions apply:
DISTRIBUTE: To transfer possession of, whether with, or without consideration.
EXHIBIT OR EXHIBITION: To show.
HARMFUL TO MINORS: Material or a live performance that:
   A.   The average person applying contemporary community standards would
find, taken as a whole and with respect to minors, appeals to a prurient
interest in nudity, sex, or excretion;
   B.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards would
find depicts, describes, or represents, in a patently offensive way with
respect to what is suitable for minors, ultimate sexual acts, normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, sadomasochistic sexual acts or abuse, or lewd
or lascivious exhibition of the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or post
pubertal female breast; and
   C.   A reasonable person would find, taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the age of a minor or being aware of the character of
the material.
LIVE PERFORMANCE: Any play, show, skit, dance, or other exhibition played or
performed before an audience of one or more, with or without consideration.
MATERIAL: Any communication, picture, image, graphic image file, article,
message, recording, writing, CD rom, laser disk, computer floppy disk, computer
software, or other matter of any kind.
MINOR: An unmarried person under eighteen (18) years of age.
NEGLIGENTLY: Consciously disregarding a risk or existence of circumstances of
which a person should be aware of the degree that risk deviates from the
conduct of a reasonable person concerning:
   A.   The character of the material or live performance that is reasonably
susceptible to examination; and
   B.   The age of the minor. However, an honest mistake will constitute an
excuse from liability if the defendant made a reasonable bona fide attempt to
ascertain the true age of the minor.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other legal
entity of any kind.
PRURIENT INTEREST IN NUDITY, SEX OR EXCRETION: A shameful, morbid, lascivious,
or unhealthy lustful interest in nudity, sex or excretion.
REASONABLE BONA FIDE ATTEMPT: An attempt to ascertain the true age of the minor
by requiring production of a driver's license, marriage license, birth
certificate, or a governmental or educational identification card or paper
rather than relying solely on the oral allegations or apparent age of the
minor. (Ord. 249, 1-1998)
5-5-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A person may not knowingly or negligently:
   A.   Display: Display material that is harmful to minors in such a way that
minors, as a part of the invited public, will be able to view the material;
provided, however, that a person is considered not to have displayed material
harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices commonly known as
blinder racks so that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the material is not exposed
to view and the material is not accessible to minors;
   B.   Sell, Furnish, Present, Distribute, Etc.: Sell, furnish, present,
distribute, rent, send, or cause to be sent, exhibit or otherwise disseminate
or allow a minor to view, or offer to distribute or exhibit by any means, with
or without consideration, any material that is harmful to minors to a minor; or
   C.   Present Or Exhibit: Present or exhibit or participate in presenting to
a minor, with or without consideration, any live performance that is harmful to
minors. (Ord. 249, 1-1998)
5-5-3: EXEMPTION:
   A.   Parent Or Guardian: Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent
or guardian from distributing any material harmful to minors to his child or
ward, or permitting his child or ward to attend an exhibition of any material
harmful to minors, if the child or ward is accompanied by the parent or
guardian. Nothing in this section shall be construed to encourage or condone
such consent by a parent or guardian, or to prohibit the prosecution of a
parent or guardian who displays or distributes any material harmful to his or
her child or ward for the purpose of enticing, encouraging, instructing, or
otherwise inducing his or her minor child to engage in any sexual act, as
defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter, or any sexual act otherwise prohibited by law, by
himself or herself, with the parent or guardian, with another person, or an
animal.
   B.   Any Person: Nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from
exhibiting any harmful matter to any of the following:
      1.   A minor who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
      2.   A minor who is accompanied by an adult who represents himself or
herself to be the parent or guardian of the minor and who the person, by the
exercise of reasonable care, does not have reason to know is not the parent or
guardian of the minor. (Ord. 249, 1-1998)
5-5-4: DEFENSE:
   A.   Legitimate Scientific Or Educational Purpose: It shall be a defense in
any prosecution for a violation of section
5-5-2 of this chapter that the act charged was displayed, presented or
disseminated to a minor at a recognized and established school, church, museum,
medical clinic, hospital, public library, governmental agency, and was
committed in aid of legitimate scientific or education purpose.
   B.   Telephone Or Telephone Facilities: It shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of section
5-5-2 of this chapter that a person who knowingly or negligently distributed
any material harmful to minors by the use of telephones or telephone facilities
to any minor, that the defendant had taken either of the following measures to
restrict access to material harmful to minors by persons under eighteen (18)
years of age:
      1.   Required the person receiving the harmful matter to use an
authorized access or identification code, as provided by the information
provider, before transmission of the material harmful to minors begins, where
the defendant previously has issued the code by mailing it to the applicant
after taking reasonable measures to ascertain that the applicant was eighteen
(18) years of age or older and has established a procedure to immediately
cancel the code of any person after receiving notice, in writing or by
telephone, that the code has been lost, stolen, or used by persons under the
age of eighteen (18) years, or that the code is no longer desired.
      2.   Required payment by credit card before transmission of the matter.
(Ord. 249, 1-1998)
5-5-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day that a violation of section
5-5-2 of this chapter occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense and is
punishable as a separate violation.
   C.   Separate Offense: Every act, thing, or transaction prohibited by
section
5-5-2 of this chapter constitutes a separate offense to each item, issue, or
title involved and is punishable as a separate offense.
   D.   Multiple Copies: For purposes of section
5-5-2 of this chapter, multiple copies of the same title, monthly issue, volume
and number issue, or other identical material constitutes a single offense.
(Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE STATUTES; APPLICATION OF CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Motor Vehicle Statutes Adopted
6-1-2: Title; Application Of Code
6-1-3: Definitions
6-1-4: Obedience To Traffic Laws
6-1-5: Control Of Traffic By Police Officers
6-1-6: Obedience To Police Officers
6-1-7: Public Officers And Employees
6-1-8: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-1-9: Animal-Drawn Vehicles
6-1-10: Penalty
6-1-1: MOTOR VEHICLE STATUTES ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Montana Motor Vehicle Statutes (MCA title 61), as amended, are
hereby adopted by the Town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this Title, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this Title if proceeded hereunder. (2000
Code)
6-1-2: TITLE; APPLICATION OF CODE:
   A.   Short Title: The provisions of this Title and other traffic ordinances
of the Town shall be designated as the Manhattan Traffic Code, and may be cited
as such.
   B.   Application: The sections of the Traffic Code are intended to be
uniform with the Montana Uniform Act regulating traffic on highways. No
provision of this Title which is construed by a court of law to be in conflict
or at variance with that Act shall be enforceable, unless specific authority is
given by the Act for such conflict or variance. (1977 Code § 10.04.010)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a street when,
within any six hundred feet (600') along such street, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which
occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three
hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the street.
DOUBLE PARKING: The standing of a vehicle upon a street alongside and parallel
of another vehicle which is parked at the curb.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Traffic Code.
PARK: When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: See Section
1-3-2 of this Code.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is improved with residences or residences
and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited means any stopping or standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer, highway
patrolman, or traffic-control sign or signal.
STREETS AND ROADWAY AREAS:
Controlled Access Highway: Every highway, street, or roadway, in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
Crosswalk: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrians crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
Intersection: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
Laned Roadway: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
Private Road Or Driveway: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
Roadway: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
Safety Zone: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
Sidewalk: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
Street Or Highway: The entire width between the boundary lines of every street,
highway and related structure as have been, or shall be, built and maintained
with appropriated funds of the United States and which have been, or shall be,
built and maintained with funds of the State, or the Town, or which have been
or shall be dedicated to public use or have been acquired by eminent domain.
Through Street: Every street or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
this Traffic Code.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
conveyances whether singly or together while using any highways for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
Official Traffic-Control Devices: All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of the Town,
County or State, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
Railroad Sign Or Signal: Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
the Town, County or State, or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
Traffic-Control Signal: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
VEHICLES:
Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Vehicles of the Fire Department, fire patrol,
police vehicles and ambulances of the Town, County or State.
Bicycle: A. Every vehicle propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two (2) tandem wheels and a seat height of more than twenty
five inches (25") from the ground when the seat is raised to its highest
position, except scooters and similar devices; or
   B.   Every vehicle equipped with two (2) or three (3) wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two (2) brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston
or rotor displacement may not exceed 3.05 cubic inches (50 centimeters)
regardless of the number of chambers in the power source. The power source must
not be capable of propelling the device, unassisted, at a speed exceeding
thirty (30) miles an hour (48.28 kilometers an hour) on a level surface. The
device must be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or
automatically only and does not require clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
Bus: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
Motor-Driven Cycle: Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a
motor which produces not to exceed five (5) horsepower, and every bicycle with
motor attached.
Motor Vehicle: A vehicle propelled by its own power and designed or used to
transport persons or property upon the highways of the state. The term does not
include a "bicycle" as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-123.
Motorcycle: A motor vehicle having not more than three (3) wheels in contact
with the ground and a saddle on which the operator sits or a platform on which
he stands and a driving wheel in contact with the ground in addition to the
wheels of the vehicle itself. A motorcycle may carry one or more attachments
and a seat for the conveyance of a passenger. The term does not include a
"tractor" or a "bicycle" as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-123.
Pole Trailer: Every vehicle without power designed to be drawn by another
vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or pole, or by
being boomed or otherwise secured by some pole or structural member to the
towing vehicle.
School Bus: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
Semitrailer: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle
and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon
or is carried by another vehicle.
Trailer: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
Vehicle: Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1977 Code §
10.04.020; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-4: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS:
It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required by this traffic code. (1977 Code § 10.04.030)
6-1-5: CONTROL OF TRAFFIC BY POLICE OFFICERS:
The chief of police and any policemen are hereby authorized and empowered to
direct, control, restrict, and regulate, in the interest of public safety,
health, and convenience, the movement of pedestrians, vehicles, and traffic of
every kind within the town, and may, when necessary to protect the safety or
welfare of the inhabitants of the town, temporarily divert or exclude all such
traffic from any public highway within the town. (1977 Code § 10.04.040)
6-1-6: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Individuals: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order or direction of any police officer pertaining to the use of the
streets by traffic.
   B.   Drivers Of Vehicles: Drivers of vehicles must at all times comply with
directions given by whistle, voice, or hand by the chief of police or any
police officers. (1977 Code § 10.04.050)
6-1-7: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets of the town shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any county,
city, or town, district, or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this chapter with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Title,
except those contained in Chapter 5 of this Title, shall not apply to persons,
teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon
the surface of a highway but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. (1977 Code § 10.04.060)
6-1-8: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Right Of Driver To Exercise Privileges: The driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not
upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
Section, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
   B.   Privileges: The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   C.   Audio And Visual Signals: The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when such vehicle is making use
of audible or visual signals meeting the requirements of Section
6-9-7 of this Title, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a
police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in
front of the vehicle.
   D.   Due Regard To Safety: The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the
driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of
others. (1977 Code § 10.04.070; amd. 2000 Code)
6-1-9: ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this Title, except those provisions which, by their very
nature, can have no application. (1977 Code § 10.04.080)
6-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.04.090)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Placement
6-2-2: Obedience Required
6-2-3: Traffic Signals
6-2-4: Pedestrian-Control Signals
6-2-5: Flashing Signals
6-2-6: Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
6-2-7: Interference
6-2-8: Penalty
6-2-1: PLACEMENT:
The Chief of Police, under the direction of the Town Council, shall place and
maintain traffic-control devices, conforming to the State Highway Commission's
manual and specifications, upon all Town streets as he or the Council shall
deem necessary to indicate and to carry out the provisions of this Traffic
Code, or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. (1977 Code § 10.08.010)
6-2-2: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Drivers To Obey: The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions
of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance
with the provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Title.
   B.   Improperly Placed, Illegible Signs: No provision of this Title for
which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at
the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place. (1977
Code § 10.08.020)
6-2-3: TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the words
"Go", "Caution", or "Stop", or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and the
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Green Alone Or "Go":
      1.   Vehicles: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight
through or turn left or right unless a sign at such place prohibits either such
turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection of an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians: Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Yellow Alone Or "Caution" When Shown Following The Green Or "Go"
Signal:
      1.   Vehicles: Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that
the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red
or "Stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians: Pedestrians facing such signals are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
   C.   Red Alone Or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicles: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go"
is shown alone, until a right turn can safely be made, or until a left turn can
safely be made from the far left lane if the turn is made from a one-way street
onto another one-way street going left. In making the turn, vehicular traffic
must yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If a traffic sign legend
indicating that no right turn on red or no left turn on red may be made after a
stop is posted at the intersection, the movement cannot be made until green or
"Go" is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians: No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway unless he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular
traffic.
   D.   Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicles: Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter
the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall
yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians: No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
roadway unless he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular
traffic.
   E.   Traffic-Control Signal At Place Other Than Intersection:
      1.   Provisions Apply: In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this Section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
very nature can have no application.
      2.   Stops: Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal. (1977 Code §
10.08.040; amd. 2000 Code)
6-2-4: PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the wait signal is showing. (1977 Code § 10.08.040)
6-2-5: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Flashing Signal Lights: Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow
signal is used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   Railroad Grade Crossings: This Section shall not apply at railroad
grade crossings. Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade
crossings shall be governed by the rules as set forth in Chapter 8 of this
Title. (1977 Code § 10.08.050)
6-2-6: DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view
of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign, or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Advertising: No person shall place or maintain nor shall the Town
permit upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   Adjacent Private Property: This Section shall not be deemed to prohibit
the erection upon private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   D.   Portable Caution Signs: The prohibition of this Section shall not apply
to portable "Caution" signs placed in the vicinity of schools at those times
during which school children are going to and coming from school.
   E.   Nuisance Declared: Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the Town is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   F.   Penalty: Whoever shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). (1977 Code §
10.08.060)
6-2-7: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any
part thereof. (1977 Code § 10.08.070)
6-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.08.080)
CHAPTER 3
SPEED
SECTION:
6-3-1: Speed Restrictions; Basic Rule
6-3-2: Minimum Speed Regulations
6-3-3: Speed Contest, Permission To Hold
6-3-4: Speed Violations; Complaint Specifications
6-3-5: Penalty
6-3-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS; BASIC RULE:
   A.   Basic Rule: Every person operating or driving a vehicle of any
character on a street within the Town shall drive the same in a careful and
prudent manner, and at a rate of speed no greater than is reasonable and proper
under the conditions existing at the point of operation, taking into account
amount and character of traffic, condition of brakes, weight of vehicle, grade
and width of highway, condition of surface and freedom of obstruction to view
ahead, and so as not to unduly or unreasonably endanger the life, limb,
property, or other rights of any person entitled to the use of the street or
highway.
   B.   Qualification Of Basic Rule: Where no special hazard exists that
requires lower speed for compliance with subsection A of this Section, the
speed of any vehicle not in excess of the limits specified in subsection C of
this Section, which limits are identical with State law, or the limits
authorized by subsection D of this Section, shall be lawful, but any speed in
excess of the limits specified in subsection C, or established as hereinafter
authorized in subsection D shall be unlawful.
   C.   Speed Limits: The following speed limits apply to streets in the Town,
except for those streets or parts of streets where the limits have been altered
in accordance with subsection D of this Section:
      1.   Urban District: Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any urban
district; (1977 Code § 10.16.010)
      2.   School District: Fifteen (15) miles per hour; (2000 Code)
      3.   Highways Under Construction Or Repairs: Thirty five (35) miles per
hour on any highways under construction or repairs;
      4.   Other Locations During Nighttime: Fifty five (55) miles per hour in
such other locations during the nighttime.
      5.   Definitions: As used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DAYTIME: One-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to one- half (1/2) hour after
sunset.
   NIGHTTIME: Any other hour.
   D.   Limits Determined by Town:
      1.   Power To Determine: Whenever the Town shall determine, upon the
basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any speed provided in
subsection C of this Section is greater or less than is reasonable or safe
under the conditions found to exist upon a highway or part of a highway, the
Town may determine and declare a reasonable and safe speed limit thereat which,
when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected, shall be effective at
all times or during hours of daylight or darkness or at such other times as may
be determined for such highways or parts of highways.
      2.   Alteration Of State Speed Limit: No alteration of any State speed
limit declared by the Town shall be effective unless such alteration is
authorized by section 61-8-310 of the Montana Code Annotated. Such declared
speed limit may be specifically indicated, but a failure to include the speed
limits in that Chapter shall not affect the validity of such limits.
      3.   Limit On Specific Streets: The following speed limits are hereby
established on certain streets within the Town:
         a.   South Sixth Street: The speed limit for all vehicular traffic,
whether motorized or nonmotorized, will be fifteen (15) miles per hour on South
6th Street from Gallatin Avenue to Park Avenue.
         b.   South Seventh Street: The speed limit for all vehicular traffic,
whether motorized or nonmotorized, will be fifteen (15) miles per hour on South
7th Street from Gallatin Avenue to Park Avenue.
         c.   Park Avenue: The speed limit for all vehicular traffic, whether
motorized or nonmotorized, will be fifteen (15) miles per hour on Park Avenue
from South 5th Street to South 6th Street. (1977 Code § 10.16.010)
         d.   School Zone: The speed limit for all vehicular traffic, whether
motorized or nonmotorized, will be fifteen (15) miles per hour in all school
zones. (2000 Code)
   E.   Reduced Speed: The driver of every vehicle shall be consistent with the
requirements of subsection A of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
condition. (1977 Code § 10.16.010)
6-3-2: MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Slow Speeds:
      1.   Impeding Or Blocking Normal Movement Prohibited: No person shall
drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and
reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is necessary for safe
operation or in compliance with law. (1977 Code § 10.16.020)
      2.   Enforcement: Police officers are hereby authorized to enforce this
provision by directions to drivers, and in the event of apparent wilful
disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply with direction of an
officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow operation by a driver shall
be a municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code, except that inability to comply with such order will not be
construed as wilful disobedience. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
   B.   Minimum Speed Limit: Whenever the council determines, on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation, that slow speeds on any part of a
street consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the
council may determine and declare a minimum speed limit below which no person
shall drive a vehicle except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance
with law. (1977 Code § 10.16.020)
6-3-3: SPEED CONTEST, PERMISSION TO HOLD:
No race or contest for speed shall be held and no person shall engage in or aid
or abet in any motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed on a public
street without written permission of the chief of police and unless the same is
fully and efficiently patrolled for the entire distance over which such race or
contest for speed is to be held. (1977 Code § 10.16.030)
6-3-4: SPEED VIOLATIONS; COMPLAINT SPECIFICATIONS:
In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this traffic code, the
complaint, also the summons or notice to appear, shall specify the speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the speed applicable within
the district or at the location. (1977 Code § 10.16.040)
6-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (1977 Code § 10.16.050)
CHAPTER 4
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Private Property
6-4-3: Obstruction Of Traffic
6-4-4: Exceptions
6-4-5: Alleys
6-4-6: Vehicles For Transport Of Flammable Liquids Restricted
6-4-7: Designation Of Passenger And Freight Loading Zones
6-4-8: Passenger Loading Zones
6-4-9: Freight Loading Zone
6-4-10: Rear Entrance; Angle Parking
6-4-11: Designation Of Public Carrier Stands
6-4-12: Buses, Parking Of Regulated
6-4-13: Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
6-4-14: No Parking Of Certain Vehicles
6-4-15: No Parking On Certain Streets
6-4-16: Perpendicular Parking
6-4-17: Time Limits; Towing
6-4-18: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
ABANDONED VEHICLE:   Any vehicle in violation of this Chapter.
                     Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation,
                     firm, sorority, fraternity, association or organization of
                     whatever name or nature. Person shall further include an
PERSON:              agent, occupant, property owner, lessee, contract
                     purchaser, manager, employee, or person having possession
                     or control of a property, or a person supervising
                     construction.
PROPERTY OWNER:      A property owner as recorded with the county in which the
                     property is located.
                     All real property (including property owned in fee or
                     obtained through easement or dedication) administered by
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: the Town and which is used for transportation purposes,
                     including streets, roads, bridges, alleys, sidewalks and
                     boulevards, trails, paths, and other public ways.
TENANT:              Any person who has an interest in real property either by
                     oral or written lease or covenant.
                     A device in, on, or by which any person or property may be
                     transported or drawn on a public highway, except devices
                     moved by animal power or used exclusively on stationary
                     rails or tracks. The term does not include a manually or
VEHICLE:             mechanically propelled wheelchair or other low-powered,
                     mechanically propelled vehicle that is designed
                     specifically for use by a physically disabled person and
                     that is used as a means of mobility for that person,
                     boats, campers, RV’s.
 
(Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-2: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Consent Required: No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any
private lot or lot area without the express or implied consent of the owner
thereof.
   B.   Lot Or Area Posted No Parking: Whenever signs or markings have been
erected on any lot or lot area, contiguous or adjacent to a street,
thoroughfare, or alley, indicating that no vehicles are permitted to stand or
park thereon, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle across any
curb or lot line or over any driveway from a street or alley into said lot or
area for the purpose of standing or parking such vehicle, or, for any person to
stop, stand, or park any vehicle in such lot or lot area.
(1977 Code § 10.24.080; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-3: OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC:
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police
or traffic control officer or highway patrolman in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk, walkways, and trails.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection or within fifteen feet (15') of an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk, or within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk when marked
by painted lines and designated by a sign.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within twenty feet (20') of the approach to any traffic signal, stop
sign or other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station,
police station, or an emergency medical service, and on the side of a street
opposite the entrance to any fire station, police station, or an emergency
medical service.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping or parking would obstruct the flow of traffic; or leave less than
twenty feet (20') of available roadway from the free movement of traffic.
   K.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
curb, roadway, or street.
   L.   Upon any bridge or elevated structure within the Town.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
(1977 Code § 10.24.090; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   The following condition and uses of property shall not be considered a
violation of this chapter:
   A.   In emergency situations as dictated by a law enforcement officer.
   B.   In the case of a mechanical failure causing the vehicle to become
inoperable. This is limited to the reasonable amount of time to move the
vehicle from the roadway.
(Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-5: ALLEYS:
   A.   Business District: No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle,
whether occupied or not, within any alley in the business district at any time
other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading.
   B.   Blocking Alley Prohibited: No person shall stop, stand, or park any
vehicle, whether occupied or not, within any alley in the town in such a manner
as to prevent the free movement of vehicular traffic or in such a position as
to block the driving entrance to any abutting property, except when engaged in
loading or unloading.
(1977 Code § 10.24.100; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-6: VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORT OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS RESTRICTED:
   No tank truck, tank trailer or like vehicle containing, or used for, the
transportation of gasoline, butane, fuel oil or other highly flammable liquid,
shall be parked on any street, alley, public park or other public place, nor
upon any private property in the town for a period longer than one hour;
provided, that this restriction upon parking shall not be construed as to
prevent the delivery of such liquids to retail gas stations or to private
residences or business property for so long a period as is reasonably necessary
to complete such delivery.
(1977 Code § 10.24.120; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-7: DESIGNATION OF PASSENGER AND FREIGHT LOADING ZONES:
   The chief of police shall have authority to determine the location of
passenger and freight loading zones and may erect and maintain, or cause to be
maintained, appropriate signs indicating the same.
(1977 Code § 10.24.130; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-8: PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in a
place marked as a passenger loading zone and then only for a period not to
exceed three (3) minutes.
(1977 Code § 10.24.140; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-9: FREIGHT LOADING ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Parking: No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for
any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading of materials in a place marked as a freight
loading zone.
   B.   Loading/Unloading Passengers: The driver of a passenger vehicle may
stop temporarily at a place marked as a freight loading zone for the purpose
of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not cause interference with any motor vehicle used for the
transportation of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter such
zone.
(1977 Code § 10.24.150; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-10: REAR ENTRANCE; ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Use Of Rear Entrance: At every pick-up and delivery point in the
business district of the town where there is an accessible rear entrance,
vehicles used for the transportation of merchandise and materials shall use
such rear entrance.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall stand or park a vehicle at an angle to
the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading, or for any purpose, when such
vehicle so parked or standing extends into the street or roadway so as to
impair the normal flow of traffic, unless a special permit for such parking or
standing is issued by the mayor to cover emergency conditions.
   C.   Angle Parking Exception: Northbound angle parking shall be allowed on
the 100 block of South Fifth Street, on the east side of the street all along
the length of the street between the alley and Gallatin Avenue.
(1977 Code § 10.24.160; amd. Ord. 07-016, 12-11-2007; Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-11: DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STANDS:
   The council may establish bus stops and taxicab stands and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such public streets and in such
places as they shall determine to be necessary or convenient for the public.
Every such bus stop, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(1977 Code § 10.24.170; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-12: BUSES, PARKING OF REGULATED:
   The driver of a bus shall not park upon any street in the business district
at any place other than at a bus stop except when temporarily stopping in
accordance with traffic control signals and other stopping or parking
regulations.
(1977 Code § 10.24.180; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-13: USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED:
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop
or stand, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed. However, the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone.
(1977 Code § 10.24.190; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-14: NO PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   It shall be unlawful at any time to park a motor vehicle:
   A.   Giving off an offensive or disagreeable odor, or any tank truck, tank
trailer or like vehicle containing or used for the transportation of gasoline,
butane, fuel oil or other highly toxic flammable substance to be parked on any
street, alley, park or other public place or upon any private property in the
Town where it would create a hazard to life or adjacent property for a period
longer than thirty (30) minutes; however, this restriction shall not be
construed to prevent the delivery of such liquid to retail gas stations or to
private residence or business or business property, but only for so long as is
reasonably necessary to complete such delivery the property.
   B.   No vehicles that are unregistered, inoperable, or visibly unsecured
shall be parked on a public right of way.
   C.   No vehicle parked in the public right of way may be occupied as living
quarters except as set out in
Title 7, Chapter 12 of this Code.
(1977 Code § 10.24.200; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024; Ord. 24-006, 12-11-2024)
6-4-15: NO PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   Restricted Hours: Between the hours of three o’clock (3:00) A.M. and
five o’clock (5:00) A.M., Monday through Thursday, it shall be unlawful to park
any motor vehicle or leave any motor vehicle on the following described public
streets: both sides of Main Street from 7th Street to 3rd Street, and from Main
Street to Gallatin Avenue on South Broadway until a sidewalk is constructed.
   B.   Signs: Signs shall be placed along these streets and avenues
prohibiting the standing or parking of any motor vehicle during the previously
listed hours.
   C.   Violation: A violation of this section shall constitute a municipal
infraction. Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. This offense shall not require any proof of mental state.
Further, vehicles parked or standing on the above described streets in
violation of this section shall be removed by towing from the street at the
sole expense of the owner of the motor vehicle.
   The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for the costs associated with
a violation of this chapter, including, but not limited to all costs of storage
of the vehicle until the towing charge and any fines are paid.
   D.   Streets Prohibited: There shall be no parking allowed on the south side
of Main Street from the intersection with Manhattan Road South to the
intersection with 8th Avenue.
(1977 Code § 10.24.204; amd. Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-011, 7-10-2007;
Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-16: PERPENDICULAR PARKING:
   A.   Fulton Avenue: Perpendicular parking shall be allowed and authorized on
the north side of Fulton Avenue between Broadway Avenue and North 5th Street
within such hours and according to all other ordinances and laws applicable to
parking on public ways, streets, and thoroughfares.
   B.   Reservation Of Right: The town council reserves the right to amend,
repeal, or otherwise modify this section and the designation of such parking at
any time hereafter.
(1977 Code § 10.24.205; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-17: TIME LIMITS/TOWING:
   No vehicle other than a vehicle belonging to the Town or as set out in
Title 7, Chapter 12 of this Code, shall be parked on a public street, alley,
roadway, or other way open to the public for more than three (3) days without
being moved more than the length of the vehicle. A violation of this section
may result in a citation to the vehicle owner, towing of the vehicle or both.
   Any vehicle, other than a vehicle belonging to the Town, which has been
parked on a public street, alley, or other way open to the public for more than
three (3) days without being moved more than the length of the vehicle may be
deemed abandoned. A written two (2) day notice of intent to remove and impound
the vehicle shall be placed on a vehicle that has been deemed abandoned. The
Town, or authorized agent of the Town, is authorized to remove or tow a vehicle
to any appropriate location associated with the tow company any vehicle that
has been deemed abandoned and not moved more than the length of the vehicle by
the end of the two (2) day notice of intent to remove and impound the vehicle
pursuant to the provisions above.
(Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
6-4-18: PENALTY:
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth
in section
1-4-2 of this code, including but not limited to abatement of the violation to
include fines, fees, towing and impound costs.
(1977 Code § 10.24.210; amd. Ord. 24-001, 2-15-2024)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Subject To Traffic Regulations
6-5-2: Vehicles To Yield Right Of Way; School Children
6-5-3: Crossing Other Than At Crosswalk
6-5-4: Use Right Half Of Crosswalk
6-5-5: Walking Along Roadway
6-5-6: Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-5-7: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-5-8: Penalty
6-5-1: SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
At intersections or other areas where traffic-control signals are emplaced,
pedestrians shall be subject to such signals as provided in Sections
6-2-3 and
6-2-4 of this Title. At all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this Chapter.
(1977 Code § 10.28.010)
6-5-2: VEHICLES TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY; SCHOOL CHILDREN:
   A.   Pedestrians Have Right Of Way: When traffic-control signals are not in
place or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of
way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing
the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the
roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield. This provision shall not apply under the
conditions stated in subsection 6-5-3B of this Chapter.
   B.   Overtaking And Passing Prohibited: Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a
marked crosswalk, or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   School Crossings: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle through a column of school children crossing a street or highway or
past a member of the school safety patrol while the member of the school safety
patrol is directing the movement of children across a street or highway and
while the school safety patrol member is holding his official signal in the
stop position. (1977 Code § 10.28.020)
6-5-3: CROSSING OTHER THAN AT CROSSWALK:
   A.   Yield Right Of Way To Vehicles: Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at
any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk
at an intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
   B.   Pedestrian Tunnel Or Overhead Pedestrian Crossing: Any pedestrian
crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian
crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   C.   Use Of Crosswalk Required: Between adjacent intersections at which
traffic-control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any
place except in a marked crosswalk. (1977 Code § 10.28.030)
6-5-4: USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1977 Code § 10.28.040)
6-5-5: WALKING ALONG ROADWAY:
   A.   Sidewalk Provided: Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful
for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Sidewalk Not Provided: Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left
side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the
opposite direction. (1977 Code § 10.28.050)
6-5-6: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   Soliciting Prohibited: No person shall stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride, employment, or business from the occupant of any
vehicle.
   B.   Standing In Street Prohibited: No person shall stand on, or in
proximity to, a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting, the watching
or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or
highway. (1977 Code § 10.28.060)
6-5-7: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1977 Code § 10.28.070)
6-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.28.080)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Bicycles
6-6-1-1: Effect Of Regulations
6-6-1-2: Traffic Laws Apply
6-6-1-3: Dismounting To Make Turn
6-6-1-4: Manner Of Riding
6-6-1-5: Clinging To Vehicles
6-6-1-6: Riding On Roadways
6-6-1-7: Carrying Packages
6-6-1-8: Parking
6-6-1-9: Riding On Sidewalks
6-6-1-10: Lamps And Other Equipment
6-6-2: Motorcycles
6-6-2-1: Motor-Driven Cycles
6-6-2-2: General Traffic Laws Apply
6-6-2-3: Riding
6-6-2-4: Driving In Traffic Lanes
6-6-3: Penalty
6-6-1: BICYCLES:
6-6-1-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations of this Chapter applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (1977 Code
§ 10.32.010)
6-6-1-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this Traffic Code, except as to special regulations in this Chapter and
except as to those provisions of this Traffic Code which, by their very nature,
can have no application. (1977 Code § 10.32.020)
6-6-1-3: DISMOUNTING TO MAKE TURN:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event he shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians. (1977 Code § 10.32.030)
6-6-1-4: MANNER OF RIDING:
   A.   Riding Astride Seat: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Number Of Persons Limited: No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(1977 Code § 10.32.040)
6-6-1-5: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway, but a bicycle
trailer or bicycle semitrailer may be attached to a bicycle if that trailer or
semitrailer has been designed for such attachment. (1977 Code § 10.32.050; amd.
2000 Code)
6-6-1-6: RIDING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Roadway Defined: As used in this Section, "roadway" means that portion
of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel,
including the paved shoulder.
   B.   Riding On Right Side Of Roadway: A person operating a bicycle upon a
roadway at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and
under the conditions then existing shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      1.   Overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      2.   Preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road
or driveway; or
      3.   Necessary to avoid a condition that makes it unsafe to continue
along the right side of the roadway, including, but not limited to, a fixed or
moving object, parked or moving vehicle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, or
a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   C.   Riding On Left Side Of Roadway: A person operating a bicycle upon a
one-way highway with two (2) or more marked traffic lanes may ride as close to
the left side of the roadway as practicable.
   D.   Riding Single File: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall ride
in single file except when:
      1.   Riding on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles;
      2.   Overtaking and passing another bicycle;
      3.   Riding on a paved shoulder or in a parking lane, in which case the
persons may ride two (2) abreast; or
      4.   Riding within a single lane on a laned roadway with at least two (2)
lanes in each direction, in which case the persons may ride two (2) abreast if
they do not impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic more than they
would otherwise impede traffic by riding single file and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Exclusion: A "bicycle", as defined in Montana Code Annotated section
61-1-123(2), is excluded from the provisions of subsections B and C of this
section. (1977 Code § 10.32.060; amd. 2000 Code)
6-6-1-7: CARRYING PACKAGES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars. (1977
Code § 10.32.070)
6-6-1-8: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic. No person shall park a bicycle against a glass window at
any time. (1977 Code § 10.32.080)
6-6-1-9: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive on any
of the sidewalks of the town, any bicycle, skateboard, motorcycle, or motor
vehicle of any sort whatsoever. (1977 Code § 10.32.090)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
6-6-1-10: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lamp: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in
addition to rear facing reflectors required by this section.
   B.   Reflector:
      1.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with an
essentially colorless front facing reflector, essentially colorless or amber
pedal reflectors, and a red rear facing reflector. Pedal reflectors shall be
mounted on the front and back of each pedal.
      2.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with either
tires with retroflective sidewalls or reflectors mounted on the spokes of each
wheel. Spoke mounted reflectors shall be within seventy six millimeters (76 mm)
(3 inches) of the inside of the rim and shall be visible on each side of the
wheel. The reflectors on the front wheel shall be essentially colorless or
amber and the reflectors on the rear wheel shall be amber or red.
      3.   Reflectors required by this section shall be of a type approved by
the state.
   C.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
   D.   Flag: Every bicycle is encouraged to be equipped with a flag clearly
visible from the rear and suspended not less than six feet (6') above the
roadway when the bicycle is standing upright. The flag shall be fluorescent
orange in color. (1977 Code § 10.32.100; amd. 2000 Code)
6-6-2: MOTORCYCLES:
6-6-2-1: MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES:
The term "motorcycle", when used in this Section, shall include "motor-driven
cycles" as that term is defined under "Vehicles" in Section
6-1-3 of this Title. (1977 Code § 10.32.210)
6-6-2-2: GENERAL TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a motorcycle upon a street or roadway shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the provisions of this Traffic Code and other traffic
ordinances of this Town, except as to special regulations in this Chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws which, by their nature, can have no such
application. (1977 Code § 10.32.220)
6-6-2-3: RIDING:
   A.   Manner Of Riding: A person operating a motorcycle or quadricycle on
public streets or highways shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat
attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall
any other person ride on a motorcycle or quadricycle unless such motorcycle or
quadricycle is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a
passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2)
persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the
operator.
   B.   Passengers: No passenger shall be carried in a position that will
interfere with the operation of the motorcycle or quadricycle or the view of
the operator.
   C.   Carrying Packages: No person operating a motorcycle or quadricycle
shall carry any packages, bundles, or articles which would interfere with the
operation of said vehicle in a safe and prudent manner.
   D.   Sidesaddle Riding: Sidesaddle riding on a motorcycle or quadricycle is
prohibited.
   E.   Lights: Motorcycles and quadricycles are to be operated with lights on
at all times when operated on any public highway or street, except that if the
motorcycle is registered under Montana Code Annotated section 61-3-411 as a
collector's item, it may be operated without lights from one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour after sunset if persons and vehicles are
clearly discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500'). (1977 Code §
10.32.230; amd. 2000 Code)
6-6-2-4: DRIVING IN TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Riding Side By Side: Not more than two (2) motorcycles shall be
operated side by side in a single traffic lane.
   B.   Full Use Of Traffic Lane: All motor vehicles, including motorcycles and
quadricycles, are entitled to the full use of a traffic lane, and no vehicle
shall be driven or operated in such a manner as to deprive any other vehicle of
the full use of a traffic lane, except that motorcycles may, with the consent
of both drivers, be operated not more than two (2) abreast in a single traffic
lane.
   C.   Every person riding a motorcycle or quadricycle upon a roadway shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a motor vehicle except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application. (1977 Code § 10.32.240; amd. 2000 Code)
6-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.32.250)
CHAPTER 7
PROCESSIONS AND PARADES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Identification Of Funeral Procession
6-7-2: Driving Through Processions
6-7-3: Drivers In Procession
6-7-4: Parade And Procession Routes
6-7-5: Permits For Processions
6-7-6: Penalty
6-7-1: IDENTIFICATION OF FUNERAL PROCESSION:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying
insignia or by such other conspicuous marking as may be required by the Chief
of Police. (1977 Code § 10.36.010)
6-7-2: DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously marked as required by this Chapter; provided, that the foregoing
provision shall not apply to intersections where traffic is controlled by
traffic- control signals or police officers. (1977 Code § 10.36.020)
6-7-3: DRIVERS IN PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practicable and safe. (1977 Code § 10.36.030)
6-7-4: PARADE AND PROCESSION ROUTES:
The Chief of Police is empowered to designate routes for parades and other
processions on the public highways and to police the same, and to adopt and
enforce such measures as, in his judgment, are necessary to keep the highway to
be travelled upon free from obstruction. (1977 Code § 1.36.040)
6-7-5: PERMITS FOR PROCESSIONS:
With the exception of funeral processions and parades of the Armed Forces of
the United States or the military forces of this State, no procession or parade
shall be conducted on the streets and thoroughfares of the Town unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the Town. The persons or groups to whom such
permits are issued shall only occupy, march, or proceed along any street in
accordance with the terms of the permit and such regulations as are set forth
in this Chapter which may be applicable. (1977 Code § 10.36.050)
6-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.36.060)
CHAPTER 8
RAILROADS AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Stopping For Approaching Train
6-8-2: Dangerous Crossings
6-8-3: Moving Heavy Equipment Across Railroad Grade Crossings
6-8-4: Trains Blocking Streets
6-8-5: Speed Limit (Rep. by Ord. 07-011, 7-10-2007)
6-8-6: Penalty
6-8-1: STOPPING FOR APPROACHING TRAIN:
   A.   Stopping Required: Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a
railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section,
the driver of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than
fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not
proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   Signal Device: A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal
device gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   Crossing Gate; Flagman: A crossing gate is lowered or when a human
flagman gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a
railroad train;
      3.   Audible Signal: A railroad train, approaching within approximately
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal
audible from such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or
nearness to such crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      4.   Plainly Visible: An approaching railroad train is plainly visible
and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   B.   Crossing Gate Or Barrier: No person shall drive any vehicle through,
around, or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such
gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed. (1977 Code § 10.40.010)
6-8-2: DANGEROUS CROSSINGS:
   A.   Power To Designate: The town may designate particularly dangerous
highway grade crossings of railroads and erect stop signs thereat.
   B.   Stop Signs: When stop signs are erected at dangerous railroad
crossings, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not
less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care. (1977 Code § 10.40.020)
6-8-3: MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall operate or move any crawler type
tractor, steam shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a
normal operating speed of ten (10) or less miles per hour or a vertical body or
load clearance of less than one-half inch (1/2") per foot of the distance
between any two (2) adjacent axles or in any event of less than nine inches
(9"), measured above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any tracks
at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with this section.
   B.   Notice To Railroad: Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given
to a station agent of such railroad and reasonable time shall be given to such
railroad to provide proper protection at such crossing.
   C.   Stop Required: Before making any such crossing, the person operating or
moving any such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, not less than
fifteen feet (15') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such
railroad, and while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along
such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   D.   Warning Device; Flagman: No such crossing shall be made when warning is
given by automatic signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the
immediate approach of a railroad train or car. If a flagman is provided by the
railroad, movement over the crossing shall be under his direction. (1977 Code §
10.40.030)
6-8-4: TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer, the engineer, conductor, or other
person in charge of any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate
the same in such a manner as to prevent the use of any street in the town over
which said railroad crosses for a period of time longer than ten (10) minutes.
(1977 Code § 10.40.040)
6-8-5: SPEED LIMIT:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-011, 7-10-2007)
6-8-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (1977 Code § 10.40.050)
CHAPTER 9
EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
6-9-1: Lighted Lamps
6-9-2: Mufflers
6-9-3: Tires
6-9-4: Windshields
6-9-5: Mirrors
6-9-6: Horns And Warning Devices
6-9-7: Emergency Vehicle Equipment; Bus Equipment
6-9-8: Right Of Way Yielded To Authorized Emergency Vehicle
6-9-9: School Buses
6-9-10: Penalty
6-9-1: LIGHTED LAMPS:
   A.   When Required: Every vehicle driven upon a street within this Town at
any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to a one- half (1/2) hour before
sunrise and at any other time when due to insufficient light, or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not clearly
discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead shall display
lighted lamps and illuminating devices. A failure on the part of a driver of a
moving vehicle to display lighted lamps at such times shall constitute a
violation of this Section.
   B.   State Statute: State law with respect to lighting equipment required by
Montana Code Annotated sections 61-9-201 through 61-9-217 shall be enforced
within the Town by all police officers. (1977 Code § 10.44.010)
6-9-2: MUFFLERS:
   A.   Required: Every motor vehicle shall, at all times, be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   B.   Cutout Or Bypass Prohibited: No person shall use a muffler cutout,
bypass, or similar device upon a motor vehicle on a street within the Town.
   C.   Excessive Fumes Or Smoke: The engine and power mechanism of every motor
vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive
fumes or smoke. (1977 Code § 10.44.020)
6-9-3: TIRES:
   A.   Rubber Tires: Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on
its entire traction surface at least one inch (1") thick above the edge of the
flange of the entire periphery.
   B.   Metal Tire Prohibited: No person shall operate or move on any street
any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact
with the roadway.
   C.   Protuberances: No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on
its periphery any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other
protuberance of any material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread
of the traction surface of the tire, except that it shall be permissible to use
farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
street, and except also that it shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions or pneumatic tires, the traction surfaces of which have
been embedded with material such as wood, wire, plastic or metal, which shall
in no instance protrude more than one-sixteenth of an inch (1/16") beyond the
tire tread, or that are clearly marked by the manufacturer on the sidewall "all
season m&s" (or "all season mud and snow"), upon any vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to
skid. The use of pneumatic tires embedded as herein provided shall be permitted
only between the October 1 and May 31 of each year, except that one such tire
may be used for a spare in case of tire failure. School buses equipped with
such embedded pneumatic tires may operate from August 15 through the following
June 15.
   D.   Permit Required: The Town may, in its discretion, issue special permits
authorizing the operation upon a street of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon
the street would otherwise be prohibited. (1977 Code §
6-9-4: WINDSHIELDS:
   A.   Obstruction Prohibited: No person shall drive any motor vehicle with
any sign, poster, or transparent material upon the front windshield, side
wings, or side or rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver's
clear view of the highway or any intersecting highway.
   B.   Windshield Wipers:
      1.   Required: The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped
with a device for clearing rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield,
which device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the
driver of the vehicle.
      2.   Maintenance: Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be
maintained in good working order. (1977 Code § 10.44.040)
   C.   Standards For Windshields And Windows: A person may not drive a motor
vehicle with:
      1.   A windshield that is shattered or in such a defective condition that
it materially impairs or obstructs the driver's view.
      2.    A person may not operate a motor vehicle that is required to be
registered in this State upon a highway if:
         a.   The windshield has sunscreening material that is not clear and
transparent below the AS-1 line or if it has a sunscreening material that is
red, yellow, or amber in color above the AS-1 line;
         b.   The front side windows have sunscreening or other transparent
materials that has a luminous reflectance of more than thirty five percent
(35%) or has light transmission of less than twenty four percent (24%);
         c.   The rear window or side windows behind the front seat have
sunscreening or other transparent material that has a luminous reflectance of
more than thirty five percent (35%) or has light transmission of less than
fourteen percent (14%), except for the rear window or side windows behind the
front seat on a multipurpose vehicle, van or bus. (2000 Code)
6-9-5: MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least two hundred feet
(200') to the rear of such motor vehicle. (1977 Code § 10.44.050)
6-9-6: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Horn Required; Use: Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a street
within the Town, shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device
shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle. The driver of a
motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation, give
audible warning with his horn but shall not otherwise use such horn when upon a
street.
   B.   Siren, Whistle Or Bell: No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall
any person use upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise
permitted in this Section. (1977 Code § 10.44.060)
   C.   Theft Alarm Signal: It is permissible but not required that any vehicle
be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it
cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal. (1977 Code §
10.44.060; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Any authorized emergency vehicle may be
equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet
(500') and of a type approved by the Montana Highway Patrol Board, but such
siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law, in which said latter events, the driver of such vehicle shall sound
said siren when reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of
the approach thereof. (1977 Code § 10.44.060)
6-9-7: EMERGENCY VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; BUS EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Audible Signal: Every authorized emergency vehicle shall, in addition
to any other equipment and distinctive markings required by the Montana Code
Annotated, be equipped with a siren, exhaust whistle, or bell capable of giving
an audible signal.
   B.   Signal Lamps: Every authorized emergency vehicle shall, in addition to
any other equipment and distinctive markings required by the Montana Code
Annotated, be equipped with signal lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable, which shall be capable of displaying to the front two
(2) alternately flashing red lights located at the same level and to the rear
two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at the same level, and these
lights shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at five hundred feet
(500') in normal sunlight.
   C.   School Bus: Every bus used for the transportation of school children
shall, in addition to any other equipment and distinctive markings required by
the Montana Code Annotated, be equipped with signal lamps mounted as high and
as widely spaced laterally as practicable, displaying to the front two (2) red
and two (2) amber alternating flashing lights and to the rear two (2) red and
two (2) amber alternating flashing lights. These lights shall have sufficient
intensity to be visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. The
warning lights shall be of a type, and located on each bus, as prescribed by
the State Board of Education and approved by the Supervisor of the State
Highway Patrol.
   D.   Police Vehicle:
      1.   A police vehicle must be equipped with a siren capable of giving an
audible signal and may be equipped with alternately flashing or rotating red or
blue lights as specified in this subsection. The use of signal equipment as
described in this subsection imposes upon the drivers of other vehicles the
obligation to yield right of way or to stop and to proceed past the signal or
light only with caution and at a speed that is no greater than is reasonable
and proper under the conditions existing at the point of operation.
      2.   A police vehicle and an authorized emergency vehicle may, and an
emergency service vehicle must, be equipped with alternately flashing or
rotating amber lights as specified in this subsection. The use of signal
equipment as described in this subsection imposes upon the drivers of other
vehicles the obligation to yield right of way or to stop and to proceed past
the signal or light only with caution and at a speed that is no greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions existing at the point of operation.
      3.   Blue, red, and amber lights required in this subsection must be
mounted as high as and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and cable of
displaying to the front two (2) alternately flashing lights of the specified
color located at the same level and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing
lights of the specified color located at the same level or one rotating light
of the specified color, mounted as high as is practicable and visible from both
the front and the rear. These lights must have sufficient intensity to be
visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Except as provided in
Montana Code Annotated section 61-9-204(6), only police vehicle as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-118 may display blue lights, lenses, or
globes.
      4.   A police car and authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a
flashing signal map that is green in color, visible from three hundred sixty
degrees (360°), and attached to the exterior roof of the vehicle for purposes
of designation as the one-scene command and control vehicle in an emergency or
disaster. The green light must have sufficient intensity to be visible at five
hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Only the on-scene command and control
vehicle may display green lights, lenses, or globes.
      5.   Only a police vehicle or an authorized emergency vehicle may be
equipped with the means to flash or alternate its headlamps or its backup
lights.
   E.   Yield Right Of Way: The use of the signal equipment described herein
shall impose upon drivers of other vehicles the obligation to yield right of
way and stop as prescribed in Sections
6-9-8 and
6-9-9 of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 10.44.070; amd. 2000 Code)
6-9-8: RIGHT OF WAY YIELDED TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
   A.   Yield Required: Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency
vehicle making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of
Section
6-9-7 of this Chapter, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use
of an audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   Duty Of Emergency Vehicle Driver: This Section shall not operate to
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (1977 Code §
10.20.230)
6-9-9: SCHOOL BUSES:
   A.   Overtaking And Passing: The driver of a vehicle upon a street, upon
meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus which has stopped on
the street for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school children,
shall stop the vehicle before reaching such school bus when there is in
operation on said bus a visual flashing red signal as specified in Section
6-9-7 of this Chapter, and said driver shall not proceed until such school bus
resumes motion, and in addition, the driver of a vehicle must slow and proceed
with caution when meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus
which is preparing to stop on the street for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children as indicated by flashing amber lights as
specified in Section
6-9-7 of this Chapter.
   B.   Required Signs And Lights: Every bus used for the transportation of
school children shall bear, upon the front and rear thereof, plainly visible
signs containing the words "School Bus" in letters not less than eight inches
(8") in height, and in addition shall be equipped with visual signals meeting
the requirements of Section
6-9-7 of this Chapter. Amber flashing lights shall be actuated by the driver
approximately one hundred fifty feet (150') before the bus is stopped to
receive or discharge school children. Red lights shall be actuated by the
driver of said school bus whenever, but only whenever, such vehicle is stopped
on the street for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children.
   C.   Other Use Of Bus: When a school bus is being operated upon a street for
purposes other than the actual transportation of children, either to or from
school, all markings thereon indicating "School Bus" shall be covered or
concealed.
   D.   Stopping Not Required: The driver of a vehicle upon a street with
separate roadways need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is
on a different roadway or when upon a controlled access highway and the school
bus is stopped in a loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such street
and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway. (1977 Code §
10.20.240)
6-9-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.44.080)
CHAPTER 10
TRUCK ROUTE
SECTION:
6-10-1: Certain Vehicles Prohibited
6-10-2: Penalty
6-10-1: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
All operators of motor vehicles, which vehicles exceed sixteen thousand
(16,000) pounds in weight, passing through the town shall not use as a truck
route North Broadway bounded on the south by North Railroad Avenue and on the
north by Fulton Avenue. (1977 Code § 10.50.010)
6-10-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-11-1: Procedure Upon Arrest
6-11-2: Failure To Obey Notice
6-11-3: Illegally Parked Vehicle; Notice
6-11-4: Failure To Comply
6-11-5: Authority To Impound Vehicles
6-11-6: Traffic Cases Involving Minors
6-11-7: Penalty
6-11-1: PROCEDURE UPON ARREST:
Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a person
arrested for a violation of any traffic law before a magistrate, any police
officer upon making an arrest for violation of the traffic ordinances of this
town shall take the name, address and operator's license number of the alleged
violator and license plate number of the motor vehicle involved and shall issue
to him, in writing, on a form provided by the town a notice to answer to the
charge against him at a place and at a time at least forty eight (48) hours
after such arrest to be specified in the notice. The officer, upon receiving
the written promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the
notice, shall release such person from custody. (1977 Code § 10.48.010)
6-11-2: FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE:
Any person who violates his written promise to appear, given to an officer upon
an arrest for any alleged traffic violation, is guilty of a municipal
infraction regardless of the disposition of the charge of which he was
originally arrested and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set
forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
6-11-3: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE; NOTICE:
Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this traffic code or other
ordinance of the town, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
notice, in writing, on a form provided by the town clerk/treasurer, for the
driver to answer to the charge against him within a specified time at least
forty eight (48) hours later, during the hours and at a place specified in the
notice. The officer shall send one copy of such notice to the chief of police
and one copy to the city court. (1977 Code § 10.48.030; amd. 2000 Code)
6-11-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Letter From Chief: If a user of a motor vehicle charged with the
violation of any restriction on stopping, standing or parking under this
traffic code does not appear in response to a notice affixed to such motor
vehicle within the time specified in the notice, the chief of police shall send
to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the notice was affixed a letter
informing him of the violation and requiring him or the aforesaid user of the
vehicle to appear and answer the charge specified in the notice. The letter
shall declare that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a complaint will be filed and warrant of arrest issued. (1977 Code §
10.48.040)
   B.   Failure Constitutes Municipal Infraction: The failure of the owner or
the said user of the motor vehicle to appear and answer within five (5) days of
receipt of the letter shall constitute a municipal infraction, regardless of
the disposition of the original charges, and shall be punishable, upon
conviction thereof, as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
6-11-5: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Remove: Members of the police department are hereby
authorized to remove a vehicle from a street, highway or public parking lot to
the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the town under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      1.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle upon a street or highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle
is, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be
unable to provide for its custody or removal.
      3.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or highway and is
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
      4.   When any vehicle is parked illegally in a parking meter zone for an
interval of more than six (6) hours.
   B.   Notice To Owner: Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or
other locality as authorized in this Section and the officer knows, or is able
to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle, the name and address
of the owner thereof, the officer shall within a reasonable time make every
reasonable effort to ascertain the identity of and to locate the owner of the
vehicle and to give, or cause to be given, notice, in writing, to the owner of
the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which
said vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a
public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such
garage.
   C.   Owner Unknown: Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or
other locality under authority of this Section and does not know and is not
able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable to
give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore required, and in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three (3) days, then
and in that event the officer shall immediately send, or cause to be sent,
written report of such removal by mail to the State department whose duty it is
to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of such notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice
shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time, and place
from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored.
   D.   Proof Of Ownership; Impound Fees: Before the owner or person entitled
to possession of any vehicle removed and impounded, as provided herein, shall
be permitted to remove the same from the custody of the Town, he shall furnish
evidence of his identity and ownership of the vehicle, or right of possession
thereto, shall sign a receipt for the vehicle, and shall pay any towing charges
incurred by the Town in towing said vehicle, and shall pay such charges for the
storage of the vehicle as shall have been incurred by the Town.
   E.   Liability For Fine Or Penalty: The payment of such fees and charges, as
provided herein, shall not operate to relieve the owner or operator of such
vehicle from liability from any fine or penalty for the violation of any law or
ordinance on account of which such vehicle was removed and impounded. (1977
Code § 10.48.050; amd. 2000 Code)
6-11-6: TRAFFIC CASES INVOLVING MINORS:
   A.   Jurisdiction Of Court: The City Court in the Town shall have concurrent
original jurisdiction in proceedings concerning the unlawful operation within
the Town of motor vehicles by children under the age of eighteen (18) years.
Whenever, after a hearing before the Court, it shall be found that a child
under the age of eighteen (18) years has unlawfully operated a motor vehicle
within the Town, the Court may:
      1.   Fine: Impose a fine;
      2.   Revoke License: Revoke the driver's license of such child, or
suspend the same for such time as may be fixed by the Court; and
      3.   Impound Vehicle:
         a.   Order any motor vehicle owned or operated by such child to be
impounded by the probation officer for such time, not exceeding sixty (60)
days, as shall be fixed by the Court; provided, however, that if the Court
shall find that the operation of such motor vehicle was without the consent of
the owner, then such vehicle shall not be impounded.
         b.   Upon nonpayment of any fine herein provided for, the Court may
order that any motor vehicle owned by said child or operated by said child with
the consent of the owner shall be impounded until the fine shall be paid, or
may order that the driver's license of such child shall be taken up and held by
the probation officer until payment of said fine, or may cause both said motor
vehicle and said driver's license to be taken up and impounded until such fine
shall be paid; but no child shall be committed to or held in any detention
facility or jail by reason of nonpayment of such fine. (1977 Code § 10.48.060)
   B.   Summons: Whenever any child under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
unlawfully operate a motor vehicle in the presence of any police officer of the
Town, such officer may deliver to said child a form of summons describing the
nature of the offense, with instructions thereon to report to the City Court of
the Town; and the Court shall be informed thereof by the delivery of a copy of
said summons to the probation officer, who shall in turn deliver the same to
the Judge or Justice of the Peace. (1977 Code § 10.48.070; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Investigation And Disposition: Whenever the Court shall be informed
that a child has unlawfully operated a motor vehicle, said child shall be
required to appear before the Court and the Court shall, after a hearing and
investigation, take action as provided in subsection A of this Section, or may
dismiss the proceeding if it be found and determined that it is for the best
interests of the child so to do. (1977 Code § 10.48.080)
6-11-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.48.090)
CHAPTER 12
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-12-1: One-Way Streets
6-12-1: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following public streets shall be designated as "one-way" streets for
traffic flow and safety purposes:
 
Altenbrand Avenue  Traffic on Altenbrand Avenue shall allow both lanes to
                    travel to the west for the length of the 100 block
North Broadway     Traffic on North Broadway shall allow both lanes to travel
                    to the south for the length of the 400 block
 
(Ord. 06-013, 10-10-2006)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Street Maintenance Districts (Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-2: Construction Of Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters Without Formation Of
District
7-1-3: Obstructions
7-1-3-1: Permit Required (Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-2: Removal Of Obstruction Or Litter (Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-3: Placing Of Signs, Fences (Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-4: Prohibited; Removal
7-1-3-5: Putting Glass, Other Materials On Street Prohibited
7-1-3-6: Exceptions
7-1-3-7: Penalty
7-1-4: Snow And Ice, Removal From Sidewalks
7-1-5: Protection Of Street And Traffic During Construction
7-1-5-1: Barricades And Warning Lights
7-1-5-2: Marking Wet Concrete
7-1-5-3: Chipping Concrete
7-1-5-4: Penalty
7-1-1: STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS WITHOUT FORMATION OF
DISTRICT:
   A.   Power Of Council To Order Construction: The town council may order
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, or any combination thereof, repaired or
constructed in front of any lot or parcel of land without the formation of a
special improvement district, and whenever the council shall order any such
sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any combination thereof, constructed, such order
shall be entered upon the minutes of the council and shall name the street
along which said sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any combination thereof is to be
constructed. (1977 Code § 12.24.010; amd. Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
   B.   Written Notice: After the making of such order, written notice thereof
shall be personally served on the owner or agent of such property. If personal
service cannot be obtained, then the notice shall be published in a prominently
displayed advertisement, once a week for four (4) successive weeks in a
newspaper in the town, or if no such paper exists, in a newspaper within the
county.
   C.   Failure To Comply: If the owner or agent of such lot or parcel of land
shall fail or neglect for a period of thirty (30) days after the date of
service of such notice to cause such sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any
combination thereof, to be constructed, the town may construct or cause such
sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any combination thereof, to be constructed, and
shall assess the cost thereof, including engineering costs and the costs
enumerated in Montana Code Annotated sections 7-12-4121 and 7-12-4169, against
the property in front of which the same is constructed. The collection of the
assessed costs shall be as provided in Montana Code Annotated sections 7-12-
4181 through 7-12-4191. (1977 Code § 12.24.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Payment For Construction Directed By Council: When any such sidewalk,
curb and gutter, or any combination thereof, is constructed by or under
direction of the council, payment for the construction thereof shall be made by
special warrants in such form as may be prescribed by ordinance drawn against a
fund to be known as special sidewalk, curb and gutter fund, and the council may
provide for the payment of said interest annually. (1977 Code § 12.24.010)
   E.   Payment Of Assessments: The payment of assessments to defray the cost
of construction of said sidewalks, curbs and gutters, or any combination
thereof, may be spread over a term as prescribed by the town council. (Ord. 07-
012, 7-10-2007)
   F.   Levy Of Assessment: The council shall annually, and before the first
Monday of October of each year, pass and adopt a resolution levying an
assessment and tax against each lot or parcel of land in front of which
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, or any combination thereof, have been constructed
under orders the council. Said resolution levying such assessment shall be in
every manner prepared and certified the same as resolutions levying assessments
for the making of improvements in special improvement districts. (1977 Code §
12.24.010)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS:
7-1-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-2: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION OR LITTER:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-3: PLACING OF SIGNS, FENCES:
(Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-4: PROHIBITED; REMOVAL:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall maintain any building, fence, porch, steps,
gallery, or other structure upon any street or alley within the town and no
person shall encumber or obstruct or cause to be encumbered or obstructed, any
street, alley or other public place in the town by placing therein or thereon
any building materials, trash, vehicles, machinery, earth, garbage, rubbish,
debris, or accumulated snow and ice removed from an adjoining private premises.
No person shall place or maintain any shafts of wood, iron or other material,
inventory, furniture, fixtures, equipment, billboards, signs, fences, poles,
rods, cables, or wire in any of the streets, public places or alleys of the
town. (Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
   B.   Permit To Allow For Limited Time: (Rep. by Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
   C.   Order To Remove:
      1.   Removal: Any building, fence, porch, steps, gallery, or other
structural obstruction now upon or hereafter placed or erected upon any street
or alley within the town, or which may be upon any new street or alley which
may hereafter be opened or created within the town, shall be removed therefrom
within a reasonable time, not exceeding thirty (30) days and not less than
three (3) days after an order to remove, in writing, has been given to the
owner or person responsible for such obstruction. (1977 Code § 12.12.050)
      2.   Unable To Find Owner Or Person Responsible: If the owner or person
responsible for such obstruction cannot be readily found for the purpose of
such notice, it shall be the duty of the town superintendent or chief of police
to cause the obstruction to be removed, in his discretion. The expense of such
removal shall be recoverable from the owner or person responsible for the
obstruction. (1977 Code § 12.12.050; amd. Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
      3.   Interference: Any person who interferes with, resists or obstructs
by acts or threats, the removal of any such obstruction shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of this section. (1977 Code § 12.12.050)
   D.   Notice To Remove Obstructions: Notice to remove obstructions described
in this chapter and subsection C of this section, specifying same, and the
place and extent of same, shall be given to the occupant or owner of the land
involved, or to the person owning or causing such obstruction. Notice shall be
given by leaving it at the place of residence of the person to be served, if he
resides in the town, or by posting it on the obstruction, if such person does
not reside in the town. (1977 Code § 12.12.060)
   E.   Action To Remove Obstruction: If the obstruction required to be removed
by the notice of subsection D of this section is denied, and the owner,
occupant, or person controlling the matter or thing charged with being an
obstruction, refuses either to remove or permit the removal thereof, the town
shall commence in the proper court an action to abate the same as a nuisance;
and if the town recovers judgment, it may, in addition to having the same
abated, recover five hundred dollars ($500.00) for every day such nuisance
remained after such notice, and also costs in said action. (1977 Code §
12.12.070; amd. 2000 Code)
   F.   Removal Without Action: The town council may, at any time, order the
town superintendent to forthwith remove any such obstruction without commencing
an action. (1977 Code § 12.12.070; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
7-1-3-5: PUTTING GLASS, OTHER MATERIALS ON STREET PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall throw or deposit upon any street, any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon such street.
   B.   Removal Required: Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or
thrown, upon any street, any destructive or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Wrecked Or Damaged Vehicle, Removal Of Glass: Any person removing a
wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall remove any glass or other
injurious substance dropped upon the street from such vehicle. (1977 Code §
12.12.080)
7-1-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The placing or maintaining of encroachments by the permission of the council,
for which an encroachment tax is paid, or the erecting or maintaining of poles
by telephone, telegraph or electric light companies for which permits have been
granted by the town are excepted from the provisions of this section
7-1-3. There is also excepted from the provisions of this section
7-1-3 the maintenance of light poles and bus benches placed by the authority of
the town. (1977 Code § 12.12.090)
7-1-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this section
7-1-3 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
7-1-4: SNOW AND ICE, REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Duty Of Property Owner Or Occupant: It shall be the duty of every
person owning or occupying any business or commercial property in the town, to
keep said sidewalk in front of his or their property free and clear from snow
and ice. (Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
   B.   Removal Before And During Business Hours: Whenever there shall have
been a fall of snow during the ordinary business hours of the day, from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of any day, such owner or
occupant of any property, shall at once and without unreasonable delay remove
said snow from said sidewalk along the entire frontage of the said property
owned or occupied by him. Whenever there shall have been a fall of snow during
the night, or at any time between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any day, it shall be the duty of such owner or
occupant of any of the property to remove said snow from said sidewalk along
the entire frontage of the property owned or occupied by him, not later than
the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of said day. (1977 Code § 12.14.020; amd.
Ord. 07-012, 7-10-2007)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
7-1-5: PROTECTION OF STREET AND TRAFFIC DURING CONSTRUCTION:
7-1-5-1: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
   A.   Required: Whenever excavation work in any street in the town is in
progress, efficient barricades shall be erected by the contractor, or other
person in control, around all trenches or embankments made by him within the
limits of any street or sidewalk.
   B.   Failure To Protect: Failure or omission to protect against accident, in
the manner required by this section, shall cause a forfeiture of any permit
which may have been granted with reference thereto. (1977 Code § 12.16.010;
amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Traveling Upon Streets With Barricades: No person shall walk upon or
drive upon a street, alley or sidewalk barricaded as stated in this section.
(1977 Code § 12.16.020)
   D.   Removal Prohibited: Whenever any barricade or other warning device
shall have been placed upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the town by any
official or employee of the town in the course of his duty, or by any
contractor working on any street, alley or sidewalk, no person shall move or
remove such barricade or other warning device. (1977 Code § 12.16.030; amd.
2000 Code)
   E.   Removal After Completion: Following completion of the construction work
and restoration of the street or sidewalk to a safe and passable condition, the
contractor or person in charge of the work shall promptly remove all
barricades, warning lights and other safety devices from the street or
sidewalk. (1977 Code § 12.16.010)
7-1-5-2: MARKING WET CONCRETE:
Where lights, signs, barricades or obstructions have been placed and maintained
to protect concrete, no person shall walk, run, drive, ride or step upon the
newly laid concrete, so as to mark, mar, or in any way, injure the same. (1977
Code § 12.16.040)
7-1-5-3: CHIPPING CONCRETE:
No person other than the town superintendent, a member of his force or a
concrete inspector, shall intentionally or wilfully chip, break, cut, or in any
manner, deface or injure any concrete in any sidewalk, curb, gutter or
pavement. (1977 Code § 12.16.050; amd. 2000 Code)
7-1-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this section
7-1-5 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Permit Required
7-2-3: Bond
7-2-4: Minimum Travel Interference
7-2-5: Time Limitations For Open Excavation
7-2-6: Backfilling
7-2-7: Revocation Of Permit
7-2-8: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EXCAVATION: Any ditch, trench, cut, hole or change of grade.
STREET: The entire width of a highway between the boundary lines of other
public or private properties on the sides. (1977 Code § 12.04.010)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall open up, dig into, excavate or tunnel in any of the
streets, avenues, public places or alleys of the town, whether to connect with
any of the mains or pipes, to connect with any sewer, or for any other purpose,
without having first:
      1.   Obtained a permit from the town council;
      2.   Made a cash payment with the town clerk/treasurer; and
      3.   Filed with the clerk/treasurer a good and sufficient surety bond.
   B.   The council shall make rules and regulations as to the amount and
conditions under which such payment shall be made. The council may, in its
discretion, waive the filing of bond. (1977 Code § 12.04.020)
7-2-3: BOND:
The bond required by section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall be in the sum of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) and shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state, conditioned to save the town harmless from any damage or
injury whatsoever to any person or property of any description, however owned,
by reason of leaving open any excavation or tunnel or by reason of failure to
properly guard any such excavation or tunnel or failure to place red lights at
such excavation or tunnel at night. Any person may furnish a yearly bond
conditioned as hereinabove set forth. (1977 Code § 12.04.030)
7-2-4: MINIMUM TRAVEL INTERFERENCE:
Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. At no time during the progress of the work shall
sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked to travel. (1977 Code § 12.04.040)
7-2-5: TIME LIMITATIONS FOR OPEN EXCAVATION:
The time that any street or alley excavation is open may be limited by the town
superintendent or another responsible official of the town. (1977 Code §
12.04.050; amd. 2000 Code)
7-2-6: BACKFILLING:
   A.   Required: After the completion of the laying of any pipe, line or
conduit, or the installation or repair of any facility for which the excavation
was undertaken, the excavator shall cause the work to be backfilled in such a
manner as to make the street in as good a condition as before the excavation.
   B.   Maintenance Of Excavation: Any person making any excavation in any
street or alley, as set forth in this chapter, shall be fully responsible for
the maintenance of the excavation for a period of six (6) months after the
backfill thereof. If any settlement occurs in the area that was formerly
excavated, the excavator or person causing the excavation shall immediately,
upon notice, fill in the settling and put the street, alley, or avenue, in as
good condition as possible for use by the public. (1977 Code § 12.04.060)
7-2-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Power To Revoke: Any permit issued under authority of this chapter may
be revoked for failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with
the specifications, methods or time limits required or approved by the town.
   B.   Request For Hearing: Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon
request, receive a hearing before the town council or person designated by the
council. The council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any
other action it deems proper. (1977 Code § 12.04.070)
7-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Application
7-3-3: Construction Standards
7-3-4: Revocation Of Permit
7-3-5: Penalty
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall break any curb or make any opening or excavation for
the purpose of constructing a driveway on any of the paved areas of any of the
streets, avenues or alleys of the town without first making application, filing
suitable bond, and obtaining a permit from the town council therefor.
   B.   The council shall make rules and regulations as to the amount and
conditions under which such payment shall be made. The council may, in its
discretion, waive the filing of bond. (1977 Code § 12.08.010)
7-3-2: APPLICATION:
All applications for permits for driveways must give a description of the
property to be served and such other information as may be required by the town
clerk/treasurer, and must be signed by the owner or his authorized agent. (1977
Code § 12.08.020)
7-3-3: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Specifications: Standards and required specifications for
the construction of driveways shall be declared by the town council, and a copy
of same shall be on file in the office of the town clerk/treasurer.
   B.   Plan: Plans for the proposed driveway shall be submitted by the
applicant to the town clerk/treasurer, or other responsible town official
designated by the council for that purpose. No permit for the construction of a
driveway shall be denied where it is shown by the applicant that the proposed
work conforms to the standards and specifications prescribed by the town.
   C.   Variance From Standards And Specifications: Whenever a proposed
driveway construction plan varies from the town standards and specifications,
the council may grant a permit to the applicant where, in its opinion, the
variance will not cause damage to the surrounding street and sidewalk area.
(1977 Code § 12.08.030)
7-3-4: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Power To Revoke: Any permit issued under authority of this chapter may
be revoked for failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with
the specifications, methods, or time limit required or approved by the town.
   B.   Hearing: Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request,
receive a hearing before the town council or person designated by the council.
The council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any other
action that it deems proper. (1977 Code § 12.08.040)
7-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 4
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Permit Required
7-4-2: Application
7-4-3: Restrictions On Issuance
7-4-4: Duties Of Permittee
7-4-5: Revocation
7-4-6: Penalty
7-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move, remove or relocate any building or structure within or
into the Town without first having obtained a moving permit from the Town.
(1977 Code § 12.20.010)
7-4-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Every application for a permit to move, remove or relocate any
building or structure in the Town shall be made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, in
writing, upon forms furnished by the Town.
   B.   Required Information: Every application shall set forth the following
information:
      1.   Address of present location of the structure;
      2.   Address of new location;
      3.   Type of construction (frame, masonry, masonry veneer, etc.);
      4.   Length, width and height of building or structure;
      5.   Specific route over which the building or structure is to be moved;
      6.   Type of occupancy (dwelling, garage, office, etc.) for both old and
new location;
      7.   Proposed moving date and time of day.
   C.   Additional Information: The Town may require any additional information
which it shall find necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit
should issue. (1977 Code § 12.20.020)
7-4-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
The following restrictions and conditions shall be observed before the issuance
of a permit as required by this Chapter:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning And Building Requirements: No permit shall be
issued to any person to move or relocate any building or structure upon another
building site unless such use, building or proposed conversion thereof conforms
to zoning and building requirements of the Town.
   B.   Prohibited Conditions: No permit shall be issued to any person to move,
remove or locate any building or structure which is so constructed or in such
condition as to be dangerous or unsafe, or which is infested with pests or is
unsanitary or which, if it be a dwelling or habitation, is unfit for human
habitation, or which is so dilapidated, defective, or in such a condition of
deterioration or disrepair that its relocation at the proposed site would
create a safety or health hazard or would cause substantial damage or material
detriment to the property in the immediate vicinity of the proposed site.
   C.   Consent Of Fire And Police Departments: Every such application shall be
accompanied by the written consent of the Chiefs of the Fire and Police
Departments, who shall be notified of the route to be taken and when the
removal or relocation shall be made.
   D.   Route: The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall specify in the permit the route
to be taken in the moving of a building, such means to be used to prevent the
street pavement from being subjected to abnormal stresses, and the limit of
time which such building or structure shall be upon the streets or alleys.
   E.   Town Fire Alarm Circuit Or Box: No circuit or box of the Town fire
alarm shall be disturbed in any manner except with the permission of the Chief
of the Fire Department.
   F.   Occupied Building: No building or structure which is being moved upon
or over any street, alley or property of the town shall be occupied as living
quarters while such building or structure is in transit.
   G.   Adequate Moving Equipment: No permit, as required by this chapter,
shall be issued unless the applicant shows that he has adequate machinery,
appliances and equipment to safely complete the proposed moving. (1977 Code §
12.20.030)
7-4-4: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
Every permittee under this chapter shall:
   A.   Use Designated Route: Move a building only over streets designated for
such use in the written permit;
   B.   Change In Date And Time: Notify the town clerk/treasurer, in writing,
of a desired change in moving date and hours as proposed in the application;
   C.   Damage To Town Property: Notify the town clerk/treasurer, in writing,
of any and all damage done to property belonging to the town within twenty four
(24) hours after the damage or injury has occurred;
   D.   Warning Lights: Cause warning lights to be displayed during the hours
of darkness on every side of the building, while standing on a street, in such
manner as to warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect
and maintain barricades across the streets in such manner as to protect the
public from damage or injury by reason of the moving or removal of the
building;
   E.   Remove Building From Streets: Remove the building from the town streets
after four (4) days of such occupancy, unless an extension is granted by the
town;
   F.   Original Building Site: Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all
excavations to existing grade at the original building site so that the
premises are left in a safe and sanitary condition;
   G.   Utilities: Properly disconnect all utilities, plug the sanitary sewer
with a concrete plug and have the water department disconnect the water
service. (1977 Code § 12.20.040)
7-4-5: REVOCATION:
The building official of the town or the chief of police is authorized and
empowered to revoke any permit granted under the terms of this chapter if it
shall become known to him that the permittee is, in any manner, failing to
comply with the terms of the permit or this chapter or, when in the opinion of
the official, public convenience and safety require such revocation. (1977 Code
§ 12.20.050)
7-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC TREES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title; Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Tree Commission
7-5-4: Park Commissioner
7-5-5: Species, Cultivars, Or Varieties Of Trees
7-5-6: Protection Of Trees
7-5-7: Protection Of Public
7-5-8: Penalty
7-5-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: The ordinance adopted pursuant hereto shall be known as,
and be cited and referred to as the TOWN OF MANHATTAN TREE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate public trees within
the town of Manhattan, to provide for their planting, protection, maintenance
and removal, establishing a tree commission and delegating to the park
commissioner the duty of assuring orderly development of public trees. (Ord.
275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the content, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural. The
word "shall" is mandatory and not merely directory.
BOULEVARD: That part of the public right of way not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and the curb line of any street.
In the absence of a curb, the curb line of a street shall be deemed to be the
edge of that portion of the public right of way maintained and open to the use
of the public for the purpose of vehicular travel.
PARK COMMISSIONER: The designated official for the town of Manhattan assigned
to carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or company of
any kind.
PROPERTY LINE: The outer edge of a street or highway right of way.
PROPERTY OWNERS: The person owning such property as recorded at the clerk and
recorder's office in Gallatin County, state of Montana.
PUBLIC PLACES: This shall include all other grounds owned by the town of
Manhattan.
PUBLIC TREES: All shade and ornamental trees growing on any street or any
public areas.
STREET: The entire width of every public way or right of way when a part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
(3") in diameter within the crown of the tree to such a degree so as to remove
the normal tree canopy and disfigure the tree.
TOWN: The town of Manhattan, Gallatin County, state of Montana. (Ord. 275, 5-1-
2001)
7-5-3: TREE COMMISSION:
   A.   Creation; Membership: There shall be created a commission to be known
and designated as the "Tree Commission" which consists of the park board,
composed of seven (7) citizens of the town of Manhattan. Six (6) of said
members shall be appointed by the mayor with consent of the council. The
seventh member shall be the park commissioner and a member of the council,
appointed by the mayor.
   B.   Compensation: All members of the commission shall serve without pay.
   C.   Appointment And Term: The six (6) members appointed by the mayor shall
be appointed as follows: Three (3) for three (3) years, and three (3) for four
(4) years, and serve until their successors are duly appointed and approved by
the council.
Successors to those members appointed by the mayor shall thereafter be
appointed for terms of four (4) years. Vacancies caused by death, resignations,
or otherwise, shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as
original appointments are made.
   D.   Duties: To study the problems and determine the needs of the town of
Manhattan in connection with its tree planting and maintenance program. To
assist the properly constituted officials of the town of Manhattan as well as
the council and citizens of the town in the dissemination of news and
information regarding the selection, planting and maintenance of public
property, and to make such recommendations from time to time to the town
council, as to desirable legislation concerning the tree program and activities
for the town. To provide regular and special meetings at which the subject of
trees insofar as it relates to the town may be discussed by the members of the
commission, officers and personnel of the town and its several divisions, and
all others interested in the tree program.
   E.   Meetings And Organization: Within a reasonable time after the
appointment of said commission and the approval of the members thereof, upon
call of the mayor, said commission shall meet and organize by the election of a
chairman. The said commission shall then provide for the adoption of rules and
procedures and for the holding of regular and special meetings as said
commission shall deem advisable and necessary in order to perform the duties
set forth. (Ord. 275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-4: PARK COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Work On Public Trees: All work on public trees will comply with the
"Tree Ordinance for the Town of Manhattan".
   B.   Authority: The park commissioner or his/her designated representative
shall have the authority and jurisdiction of regulating the planting,
maintenance and removal of public trees on streets and other publicly owned
property to ensure safety or preserve the aesthetics of such public sites.
   C.   Duty: The park commissioner or his/her designated representative shall
have the authority, and it will be his/her duty, to supervise or inspect all
work performed under the terms of this chapter.
   D.   Park Commissioner's Authority In Granting Permits: The park
commissioner or his/her designated representative shall have the authority to
affix reasonable conditions to the granting of a permit in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
   E.   Permits Required For Work On Public Trees: No person shall plant,
spray, perform major pruning, remove or otherwise disturb any public tree
without a tree work permit (see appendix attached to ordinance 275 on file in
the office of the town clerk) issued by the town. The person receiving the
permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and standards of
practice as outlined in the appendix attached to ordinance 275 on file in the
office of the town clerk, and provide evidence of public liability insurance in
an amount to be appropriated by the park commissioner (tree commission).
   F.   Removal Of Public Trees, Replacement, And Allocation Costs:
      1.   No person or property owner may remove a public tree from the
boulevard for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason without
first obtaining a permit from the town council of the town of Manhattan.
      2.   Public trees removed under subsection F1 of this section must be
replaced as deemed appropriate by the park commissioner. The person or property
owner shall bear the cost of maintenance, removal and replacement of all public
trees removed.
   G.   Appeal To Mayor: Any person may make a written appeal from any ruling
or order by the park commissioner to the mayor, who shall make a final
decision. (Ord. 275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-5: SPECIES, CULTIVARS, OR VARIETIES OF TREES:
   A.   Permitted:
      1.   The tree commission (park board) shall prepare a list of trees
acceptable for planting in the public sites of the town of Manhattan. See
appendix for approved tree species for the town of Manhattan attached to
ordinance 275 on file in the office of the town clerk. Undesirable trees shall
not be recommended for general planting and their use, if any, shall be
restricted to special locations where, because of certain characteristics of
adaptability or landscape effect, they can be used to an advantage.
      2.   Only desirable long lived trees of good appearance, beauty,
adaptability, and generally free from injurious insects or disease shall be
planted in public sites. The tree commission, in conjunction with the park
commissioner, shall review at least once every two (2) years the species,
cultivars or varieties for any reason and to determine if certain new species,
cultivars, or varieties of proven dependability and value should be added.
   B.   Planting:
      1.   Location, Placement And Spacing:
         a.   Guidelines for the location, placement and spacing of street and
public trees will be based on the tree's size, class (small, medium, large) and
the obstacle (curbs, intersections, etc.). The required planting distances are
listed in the appendix as guidelines for location, placement and spacing of
landscape trees attached to ordinance 275 on file in the office of the town
clerk.
         b.   All planting on unpaved or paved streets without curbs must have
the special permission of the park commissioner who shall determine the tree's
location so it will not be injured or destroyed when the street is curbed and
paved, or sidewalks added. Planting distance shall be three (3) to five feet
(5') from the outside edge of the street. (Ord. 275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-6: PROTECTION OF TREES:
   A.   Damage To Public Trees: Unless specifically authorized by the park
commissioner, it is unlawful for any person to intentionally damage, cut,
carve, transplant, or remove any public tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, or
other contrivance to any public tree; allow any gaseous liquid or solid
substance which is harmful to such tree to come in contact with them; or set
fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or the heat thereof could injure
any portion of any public tree.
   B.   Protection Of Trees:
      1.   All trees on a street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work, shall be
guarded with a good substantial fence, frame or box. All building material,
dirt, or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to excavate any ditches, tunnels,
trenches, or lay a drive within a radius of ten feet (10') of any public tree
without first obtaining permission from the park commissioner. Maintenance or
repair work on existing underground utilities will be permitted. Excavation for
new utilities and structures within a radius of ten feet (10') of any public
tree will not be permitted unless it is determined by the park commissioner
that it will not adversely affect the tree.
      3.   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or
town personnel to top any public tree. An international society of
arboriculture (ISA) certified arborist shall be present at all times when work
is being performed. All other personnel utilized for work on or with trees or
shrubs shall be trained to perform the work properly and safely. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter by the town council.
   C.   Removal Of Public Trees: No trees shall be removed from public places
unless they are dead, diseased, constitute a hazard to life or property, are a
public nuisance, or because a revision of planting plans necessitates. (Ord.
275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-7: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC:
   A.   Public Protection: To protect the public from danger, suitable street
and sidewalk barriers, high cones, or signs must be used when pruning, removing
or spraying trees. Flashing signals or flares must be placed on all barriers or
obstructions remaining in the street after dark. All safety devices must
conform to the standards as set forth in "The Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" distributed by the federal highway administration, U.S. department of
transportation.
   B.   Stumps: The stumps of all removed public trees shall be cut to at least
three inches (3") below the ground, and soil shall be replaced and the area
leveled. Certain species may require the stump to be treated to prevent it from
resprouting. If the area where the tree is removed is to be paved, the stump
shall be removed to meet general construction standards.
   C.   Spraying: Suitable precautions shall be taken to protect and warn the
public that spraying is being done to public trees. Spraying will be done only
for the control of specific diseases or insects, with the proper materials in
the necessary strength, and applied at the proper time to obtain the desired
control. All spraying practices shall conform to federal, state and local
regulations and must be performed by a pesticide applicator properly licensed
by the state of Montana, department of agriculture. (Ord. 275, 5-1-2001)
7-5-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Removal Of Violation Trees; Procedure: Whenever any tree is planted or
set out in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Manhattan town
council may remove or cause removal of the same. The Manhattan town council
will first notify the property owner(s), in writing, of the town's intention to
remove the tree(s) and give the property owner(s) a reasonable period of time
(not to exceed 45 days) within which to remove the tree(s). If the property
owner(s) does/do not comply within the specified time, the town council will
cause the removal of the tree(s) and the total cost thereof will be added to
the taxes levied against the real property of the owner(s). (Ord. 275, 5-1-
2001)
   B.   Violation: Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 6
FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-6-1: Established; Operation
7-6-2: Board Of Trustees
7-6-3: Management; Annual Accounting
7-6-1: ESTABLISHED; OPERATION:
A library shall be established within the corporate limits of the Town and
shall be operated as a joint Town-County library under the laws of the State.
School District No. 3 shall also be a participant in all respects in the
operation of the library. The Town of Manhattan, Gallatin County and School
District No. 3 shall enter into a contract and other such agreements necessary
for the operation of the free public library. (2000 Code)
7-6-2: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Selection: The Board of Trustees of the joint Town-County library shall
be selected according to the agreement described in this Chapter.
   B.   Compensation; Expenses: The Trustees shall serve without compensation
but their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties may be paid from library funds.
   C.   Officers: Trustees shall meet and elect a chairman and such other
officers as they consider necessary for one-year terms.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The Board Of Trustees shall have the same powers and
duties as the Board of Trustees of a city library or county library authorized
by the laws of the State.
   E.   Term: The term of a Trustee shall not exceed five (5) years. A Trustee
shall serve no more than two (2) full terms in succession. (2000 Code)
7-6-3: MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL ACCOUNTING:
The Council shall appoint a person to manage the library and file with the Town
Council, at the end of each fiscal year, a statement accounting for the funds
received and spent. (1977 Code § 2.36.010)
CHAPTER 7
VACATING ALLEY IN ALTENBRAND ADDITION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Owner Of Property
7-7-2: Alley Discontinued
7-7-1: OWNER OF PROPERTY:
Whereas Henry Altenbrand Jr. and the Manhattan Malting Company have conveyed to
the Town fractional Block 48, and fractional Block 3 of the Altenbrand
Addition, of said Town for park and public playground purposes. And whereas the
Town is the owner in fee of all the real property abutting on the alley passing
through the said fractional Block 48, and the said fractional Block 3 of the
Altenbrand Addition; and it appearing to the Council that it is for the best
interest of the Town and not detrimental to the public interests that the said
alley should be discontinued. (1977 Code § 12.36.010)
7-7-2: ALLEY DISCONTINUED:
Now therefore, it is hereby ordained that the following alley within fractional
Block 48, and fractional Block 3 of the Altenbrand Addition, of the Town
according to the recorded plat thereof, is hereby vacated and discontinued, to-
wit: a strip of land twenty feet (20') in width extending through the said
fractional Block 48, and the said fractional Block 3 of the Altenbrand
Addition, equally distant from 4th Street and Broadway and parallel thereto, as
shown on the recorded plat thereof, the same being a strip twenty feet (20') in
width and four hundred feet (400') in length. (1977 Code § 12.36.020)
CHAPTER 8
VACATING A PORTION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Vacation Of Property
7-8-2: Notice And Hearing Made
7-8-3: Underground Utility Lines And Easements
7-8-1: VACATION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   The town council hereby vacates a portion of Altenbrand Avenue, the
alley in block two of Altenbrand Addition and the alley running through the
park intersecting Fulton Avenue and Altenbrand Avenue, Gallatin County,
Manhattan, Montana. (1977 Code § 12.38.010)
   B.   West Lexington Avenue, from the intersection of West Lexington Avenue
and Broadway Avenue, west to the end of the street and as further described on
the attached diagram, will be vacated upon receipt by the town of lots 10-B and
11-B of the amended subdivision plat of the Manhattan original plat, C-48-G,
and receipt of an easement agreement between Mr. Schultz and the owners. (Ord.
05-005, 12-13-2005)
7-8-2: NOTICE AND HEARING MADE:
Said vacation occurs after notice of public hearing, conduct of public hearing
and was made for the benefit of the interests of the town of Manhattan. (1977
Code § 12.38.020)
7-8-3: UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES AND EASEMENTS:
All town underground utility lines and easements shall be in no way affected by
the vacation of the above described avenues and streets. (1977 Code §
12.38.030)
CHAPTER 9
VACATING A PORTION OF LOTS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Lot 17, Block 31
7-9-1: LOT 17, BLOCK 31:
The Town Council does hereby vacate and abandon any interest it may possess in
Lot 17 and five feet (5') off the west side of Lot 16 in Block 31 of the Town
of Manhattan. (Ord. 257, 7-6-1999)
SECTION:
7-9-1: Lot 17, Block 31
7-9-1: LOT 17, BLOCK 31:
The Town Council does hereby vacate and abandon any interest it may possess in
Lot 17 and five feet (5') off the west side of Lot 16 in Block 31 of the Town
of Manhattan. (Ord. 257, 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 10
STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
7-10-1: Created; Boundaries
7-10-2: Purpose
7-10-3: Initial Cost
7-10-4: Assessment
7-10-1: CREATED; BOUNDARIES:
Pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 7-12-4401 et seq., the town council
hereby creates one street maintenance district. The boundaries of the district
are described as follows:
All lots and parcels of land within the corporate limits of the town of
Manhattan. It is the intention that the street maintenance district shall
consist of all tracts and parcels of land within the town limits of the town of
Manhattan. It is the intention that the boundaries of the town of Manhattan
constitute the boundaries of this street maintenance district. In the event
through annexation or otherwise, tracts or parcels of land are added to the
town of Manhattan or are removed from the corporate boundaries of the town of
Manhattan, said tracts and parcels of land shall likewise either be added to or
removed from this street maintenance district. (Ord. 258, 8-10-1999)
7-10-2: PURPOSE:
The town council desires to create the street maintenance district as a method
to provide funding for the maintenance of streets and alleys within the town of
Manhattan. Maintenance for the purposes of this chapter and subsequent
proceedings includes, but is not limited to, sprinkling, graveling, oiling,
chip sealing, seal coating, overlaying, treating, general cleaning, sweeping,
flushing, snow removal, leaf and debris removal, repair of culverts adjacent to
or under streets and the repair and replacement of street beds and the widening
of alleys. (Ord. 258, 8-10-1999)
7-10-3: INITIAL COST:
It is intended that the initial cost for this street maintenance district shall
be approximately thirty eight thousand two hundred dollars ($38,200.00).
   A.   Project A: A street maintenance project on Park Avenue one and one-half
(11/2) blocks west of Broadway, sixteen thousand two hundred dollars
($16,200.00).
   B.   Project B: A street maintenance project to replace a culvert under
Lexington Avenue, twenty two thousand dollars ($22,000.00). (Ord. 258, 8-10-
1999)
7-10-4: ASSESSMENT:
It is the intention in assessing for the street maintenance district to assess
against all developed property that has a permanent structure and either town
water or sewer service an annual assessment in an amount to be determined by
the town council each year. The formula used for computing this assessment is
an amount per thousand square feet of property. The town council shall then
determine annually what the owner of each developed tract or parcel shall pay
as an assessment. Property owners will each pay seventy one dollars sixty five
cents ($71.65) for each developed parcel for fiscal year 1999-2000. The formula
for the assessment further provides that for any lots or parcels of land owned
by the town of Manhattan, the Manhattan School District, or any railway company
that owns tracts or parcels of land within the district, rather than utilizing
the entire square footage of a lot or parcel in determining the assessment, the
footprint of all permanent structures that are serviced by either water or
sewer will be the subject of the square footage computation. (Ord. 258, 8-10-
1999)
CHAPTER 11
PARKS, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACES
SECTION:
7-11-1: Purpose
7-11-2: Board Of Park Commissioners
7-11-2-1: Membership Of Park Board
7-11-3: Park Rules
7-11-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to enhance the public's recreational
experience and encourage the use of the town's public parks, trails, and open
spaces within the jurisdictional limits of the town, while at the same time
establishing rules intended to manage and protect these lands and the people
using these lands. These lands will be administered by the town, acting through
its park commission. (Ord. 10-001, 4-13-2010)
7-11-2: BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS:
The board of park commissioners ("board") for the town of Manhattan shall have
all of the powers and duties as set forth in sections 7-16-4222 through 4228,
Montana Code Annotated, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   To make all rules necessary to protect and promote the growth of trees
and plants in parks, boulevards, and public places under the care and control
of the board;
   B.   To make all rules for the use of parks by the public, subject to
approval by the town council; and
   C.   To provide penalties for the violation of the rules, subject to
approval by the town council.
The rules authorized by this section have the force of town ordinances and may
be enforced as ordinances of the town are enforced. (Ord. 10-001, 4-13-2010)
7-11-2-1: MEMBERSHIP OF PARK BOARD:
   A.   The board shall be composed of seven (7) members, all of whom reside
within the town or within the zoning jurisdiction of the town. One member shall
be a member of the town council and will be the park commissioner. The park
commissioner shall be appointed by the mayor. The board members shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the town council.
   B.   The six (6) members appointed by the mayor shall be appointed as
follows: three (3) for three (3) years, and three (3) for four (4) years. If,
in the event that a term is vacated prematurely such that all terms will expire
at the same time, the council shall have the discretion to appoint for
staggered terms until such revolving terms are again established.
   C.   The board members shall not be entitled to a salary but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred as a result of their work on the board,
including, but not limited to, mileage and per diem.
   D.   The board may employ personnel to assist in its functions, upon
approval from the town council.
   E.   The board shall comply with the requirements of sections 7-1-201(11),
(12), (13) and (14), Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 10-001, 4-13-2010)
7-11-3: PARK RULES:
Other than set forth below, additional rules may be adopted from time to time
by resolution of the town council.
   A.   Definition: "Parks" shall mean all parks, trails, and open spaces owned
or leased by the town of Manhattan and any private land dedicated for public
use.
   B.   Camping And Overnight Parking:
      1.   It is unlawful to camp, sleep, or park overnight in any park or
parking lot associated with the park.
      2.   The town of Manhattan may grant an exception to this provision for
special public events.
   C.   Motorized Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the boundaries of a
town park except in parking lots.
      2.   This rule does not apply to emergency or maintenance vehicles or
vehicles necessary for use by the handicapped.
      3.   No one shall clean, wash, or perform any motor vehicle maintenance
in any park.
      4.   No one shall drain or dump waste from any vehicle in any park.
   D.   Fires:
      1.   No person shall ignite or maintain a fire within a park except in a
designated barbecue unit or the ice skating warming barrel.
   E.   Pets:
      1.   Horses are not permitted in any park.
      2.   Dogs will be on leashes in any park except in designated off leash
areas such as Linear park in the Farmstead Addition.
   F.   Littering:
      1.   Littering in parks is prohibited.
      2.   All food and animal waste shall be disposed of in a garbage can or
other receptacle designed for such purposes.
   G.   Amusement For Gain:
      1.   No amusement for gain or for which a charge is made can be conducted
in a park without a permit granted by the town of Manhattan.
      2.   Such amusement must be conducted in accordance with all park rules.
   H.   Firearms, Projectiles, Golf, Archery, Etc.:
      1.   All firearms are prohibited except duly authorized law enforcement
personnel.
      2.   No one shall hit golf balls, engage in archery, or throw spears in
any park.
   I.   Sound Amplification:
      1.   No one shall use, operate, or play any device producing sound at a
volume that is audible at a distance of over thirty feet (30') except if a
permit is granted by the town of Manhattan.
   J.   Posting Of Signs:
      1.   No one shall post, paste, paint, or affix any placard, bill, notice,
or sign upon any structure or thing within any part of a park.
   K.   Fireworks:
      1.   Fireworks are prohibited in all parks.
   L.   Trail Use:
      1.   Pedestrians, bicycles, skateboards, roller skates or rollerblades
can use all trails.
      2.   No motorized vehicles shall be allowed on the trails, except as set
out above.
   M.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   The possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in all parks
except those issued a permit.
      2.   Members of groups or organizations, or individuals may request an
alcoholic beverage permit issued by the town of Manhattan.
   N.   Penalties: Violation of this section shall be a municipal infraction,
punishable as set forth in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 10-001, 4-13-2010)
CHAPTER 12
CAMPING ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
(Rep. by Ord. 24-006, 12-11-2024)
TITLE 8
FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 1
POWER COMPANY FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Grant Of Franchise
8-1-2: Extension Of Mains And Pipes
8-1-3: Liability For Interruption Of Supply
8-1-4: Liability For Damages
8-1-5: Manner Of Performing Work; Changes In Grade Or Plan
8-1-6: Town Held Harmless
8-1-7: Assignment
8-1-8: Adoption Of Necessary Ordinances
8-1-9: Reservation Of Rights
8-1-10: Forfeiture
8-1-1: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
There is hereby granted to the Montana Power Company, a corporation, its
successors and assigns (hereinafter called the "Grantee"), the right, privilege
and franchise for the full period of fifty (50) years from and after September
8, 1980, and thereafter until and unless otherwise provided by ordinance to
construct, equip, lay, maintain and operate in, under, upon, over and across
the streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges, casements and other public
places in the Town, as now or hereafter constituted, mains, pipes, conduits,
manholes, reducing and regulating stations and all other appurtenances and
accessories for the purpose of transporting, conveying, distributing, supplying
and selling natural gas or artificial gas, or a mixture of natural and
artificial gas for light, heat, power and other purposes, at rates fixed and
allowed by the Public Service Commission of Montana, and Grantee agrees to file
with the Town Clerk/Treasurer the schedule of rates thus fixed and allowed.
(1977 Code § 12.30.010)
8-1-2: EXTENSION OF MAINS AND PIPES:
The Grantee shall extend its gas mains and pipes to such parties of the Town as
the consumption of gas shall justify. (1977 Code § 12.30.020)
8-1-3: LIABILITY FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY:
The Grantee, at all times during the existence of this franchise, shall use its
best efforts to obtain and supply a continuous, sufficient and adequate
quantity of gas for use by the Town and its inhabitants; provided, however,
that Grantee shall in nowise be liable to the Town or to its inhabitants
because of the interruption or discontinuance of the supply of gas by causes
beyond the reasonable control of Grantee. (1977 Code § 12.30.030)
8-1-4: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Grantee shall not discontinue the distribution of gas through its distributing
system, or any portion thereof, for an unreasonable length of time for the
purpose of making repairs and extensions, but Grantee shall not be liable to
the Town or to any consumers for damages caused by such temporary
discontinuance or interruption of the delivery of gas; provided, that such
repairs and extensions are made with reasonable diligence. (1977 Code §
12.30.040)
8-1-5: MANNER OF PERFORMING WORK; CHANGES IN GRADE OR PLAN:
   A.   Manner Of Performing Work: All work done in, under, upon, over and
across the present and future streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges,
easements and other public places in the Town by Grantee for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this franchise shall be done and performed in a
good and workmanlike manner. When any street, alley or other public place in
said Town is excavated or damaged by Grantee by reason of such work, the
Grantee shall restore such street, alley or public place to its former
condition as early as practicable.
   B.   Changes In Grade Or Plan: If at any time a change in the grade or plan
of any street, alley or public place shall be made by order of the proper Town
officials, the Grantee shall, without expense to the Town, make such changes in
the location of its pipes and facilities as the change of the grade or plan of
the street, alley or public place makes necessary, which said changes shall be
made as soon as possible after said Grantee shall have received notice from the
proper Town official having the same in charge. (1977 Code § 12.30.050)
8-1-6: TOWN HELD HARMLESS:
Grantee shall hold the Town harmless from all costs and damages which shall or
may accrue to the Town by reason of the neglect, default or misconduct of the
Grantee in connection with the exercise of its rights hereunder. (1977 Code §
12.30.060)
8-1-7: ASSIGNMENT:
Grantee is hereby given the right and authority to make assignments of this
right, privilege or franchise, and its rights hereunder, all assignees to be
bound to the same extent as the original Grantee. (1977 Code § 12.30.070)
8-1-8: ADOPTION OF NECESSARY ORDINANCES:
The Town shall pass all ordinances necessary or suitable to protect the
property and rights of said Grantee and to enable said Grantee to enforce any
of its reasonable rules and regulations for the management, operation and
control of the service hereunder, and shall pass any reasonable ordinance or
ordinances that may be necessary or suitable in order fully to confirm to said
Grantee the rights herein or hereby granted or intended so to be. (1977 Code §
12.30.080)
8-1-9: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
Nothing in this Chapter contained shall be held or construed to grant any
exclusive rights or privileges, but the Town reserves to itself the right at
any time to make such other grants or extend such other privileges to any other
person, company or corporation for the use of its streets, alleys or other
public places or any thereof, for the purposes in this Chapter expressed or for
any other valid purpose as the Town Council may by ordinance from time to time
determine. (1977 Code § 12.30.090)
8-1-10: FORFEITURE:
Failure on the part of Grantee to comply in any substantial respect with any of
the provisions of this franchise shall be grounds for forfeiture thereof, but
no such forfeiture shall take effect if the reasonableness or the propriety
thereof is protested by Grantee until and unless a court of competent
jurisdiction (with right of appeal in either party) shall have found that said
Grantee has failed to comply in a substantial respect with any of the
provisions of this franchise, and Grantee shall have six (6) months after the
final determination of said question to make good the default before a
forfeiture shall result, with the right in the Town Council, at its discretion,
to grant such additional time to the Grantee for compliance, as necessities in
the case may require. (1977 Code § 12.30.100)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
SEWER USE, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Supervisor
9-1-2: Connection Required
9-1-3: Connection Permit
9-1-4: Connection Of Sewer
9-1-5: Costs Of Relocation
9-1-6: Cesspools
9-1-7: Prohibited Deposits
9-1-8: Lien Against Property
9-1-9: Sewer Charges And Assessments
9-1-10: Rates
9-1-11: Rate Increase
9-1-12: Wastewater System Impact Fee
9-1-13: Penalty
9-1-1: SUPERVISOR:
The mayor, by and with the consent of the town council, shall have general
supervision of all sewers of the town, both public and private. (Ord. 13-001,
7-11-2013)
9-1-2: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, every owner or occupant of lands,
buildings or premises abutting the streets or alleys in which a town sewer is
now or may hereafter be constructed, shall cause to be constructed a sewer or
drain pipe in the manner hereinafter required, which shall connect such lands,
buildings or premises and all vaults, cesspools, ditches, water closets, sinks
and pipes there or thereon used as a receptacle or conductor of wastewater,
with such nearest accessible sewer. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013; amd. Ord. 22-003,
9-8-2022)
9-1-3: CONNECTION PERMIT:
   A.   Application For Connection Permit: All persons desiring to make
connection with the public sewer system shall make application to the town for
a sewer connection permit and must pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for such
inspection and hookup, plus any costs of installation incurred.
   B.   Connection Requirements: All connections must comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Diameter: Private connections must be not less than four inches (4")
in diameter and shall be of a substantial material as that used in the
construction of the public sewer with which said connection shall be made;
      2.   Individual: All service in private dwellings must be individual;
      3.   Fall: The fall must be not less than two percent (2%);
      4.   Turns: All turns must be not less than one-eighth (1/8) bends;
      5.   Soil Or Iron Pipe: There must be a soil or iron pipe through the
wall in all cases;
      6.   Joints: Wherever a smaller lateral leads from a larger, it must be
bushed and all joints must be swabbed very clean.
      7.   Sewer Gate Valves: All connections into a structure which does not
have a connection to the town's water system must include a sewer gate valve,
in accordance with industry standards and specifications and such gate valve
must be installed at a point within the main sewer line easement. (Ord. 13-001,
7-11-2013)
9-1-4: CONNECTION OF SEWER:
   A.   Provided By Town: The town shall construct or cause to be constructed
that part of the connecting sewer beginning at the point of jointure and
extending to the property line of the applicant.
   B.   Provided By Property Owner: The property owner shall provide
construction materials and shall construct the sewer line from their property
line to inside the structure.
   C.   Materials: All materials used in construction of sewers within the town
and the jurisdictional area of the town covered by the planning board shall
conform to the standards approved by the town council and applications shall be
approved before installation of materials. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-5: COSTS OF RELOCATION:
All subdivisions and relocations shall be referred to the town engineer for
review and all costs shall be at the expense of the developer. (Ord. 13-001, 7-
11-2013)
9-1-6: CESSPOOLS:
be erected or maintained upon any property or premises owned or occupied by
him, abutting any street or alley in which a public sewer has been or may be
constructed, any cesspool, water closet or other receptacle or conductors of
wastewater. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013; amd. Ord. 22-003, 9-8-2022)
9-1-7: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS:
No person shall deposit any garbage, rubbish, dead animals or any substance
having a tendency to obstruct the flow of a sewer in any flush tank, manhole or
sewer opening. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-8: LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
If any owner or occupant of land, buildings or premises abutting an aforesaid
street or alley shall fail, refuse or neglect to perform any necessary work
required by this chapter, the town shall cause such work to be done and the
cost of the construction of the same shall be assessed against such property
and the amount thereof shall constitute a lien against such property, and such
assessment shall be collected and the lien enforced by suit in the name of the
town, or by any officer, contractor to whom it may be directed, that payment be
made in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-9: SEWER CHARGES AND ASSESSMENTS:
The town council has the responsibility to determine if the sewer charges
presently being assessed for the town are insufficient to pay for the cost of
maintenance, repairs and to establish a reserve for additions, and to assist in
the payment of sewer bonds under the present rate schedule, it is necessary to
raise the sewer charges for each user in the town. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-10: RATES:
   A.   User Rates: The town council will establish and change the wastewater
rates and charges by resolution after notice and hearing as provided in
sections 69-7-111 and 112, Montana Code Annotated (1999).
   B.   Industrial Waste: Industrial wastes hereinafter being established in
the town shall be charged the same monthly rates or shall have a rate
contingent upon the volume of sewer discharged, the BOD, oil and grease, and
suspended solids concentration in relation to the standard domestic
concentrations. The assumptions for standard domestic BOD loading will be two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l), two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (250 mg/l) for suspended solids, twenty five (25) milligrams per liter
(25 mg/l) for oil and grease, and a residential home per day discharging rate
of three hundred fifty (350) gallons. The following formula shall apply:
 
 Industrial Rate =
$15.45 + $15.45 ( Excess V) + (V x Excess BOD x $1.14 K1)
 V
+ (V x Excess SS x $1.14 x K1) + (V x Excess oil and grease x $2.28 x K1)
 
$1.14 is the dollar per pound charge for BOD
$1.14 is the dollar per pound charge for SS
$2.28 is the dollar per pound charge for oil and grease
K1 is a constant equal to 8.33 x 10-6 which converts the units to dollars per
month.
V is the monthly volume in gallons, equal to 10,500 gallons.
Excess V is the monthly sewage flow from industry in excess of 10,500 gallons.
Excess BOD is the monthly BOD concentration greater than 250 milligrams per
liter.
Excess SS is the SS concentration greater than 250 milligrams per liter.
Excess oil and grease is the oil and grease concentration greater than 25
milligrams per liter.
   C.   Disputes: The rates, charges and rentals hereinabove specified shall be
deemed prima facie fair, reasonable and equitable. In any case where any
contention is made that said rates are unfair, inequitable, or unreasonable,
the party objecting thereto shall apply to the town superintendent, stating the
facts and grounds of complaint, and the town superintendent shall investigate
and report with recommendations to the town council. The town superintendent
may also report to said town council any cases where the amount or character of
the sewage from any plant, building, or premises is such that collection and
disposal thereof is substantially more expensive than average sewage, and give
recommendations as to higher rates to be imposed for the collection and
disposal of sewage. The town superintendent shall consider each and all of such
complaints and reports, and communicate his findings in respect thereto to the
town council within one month after the filing of such complaint. The town
council shall have the right to order public hearings as to any such matter,
and if convinced that an adjustment of sewerage rates or charges for such
plant, building, or premises is necessary to provide equality with those
charged to others, it shall so provide by law amendatory hereto.
   D.   Special Agreement Or Arrangement: No statement contained in this
chapter shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the town and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town for treatment.
   E.   Liability For Charges: The owner of each premises to which wastewater
service is available from a main line owned or operated by the town shall be
liable for payment of the charge hereinabove prescribed. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-
2013)
9-1-11: RATE INCREASE:
The town council may increase the wastewater fees as necessary by resolution
from time to time in accordance with section
9-1-10 of this chapter. Any proposal for a rate increase will be provided to
the Montana consumer council prior to any hearing on the proposal. (Ord. 13-
001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-12: WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Fee Increases: The town council may increase the wastewater system
impact fees as necessary from time to time by resolution after notice and
hearing as provided in sections 7-1-4128 and 7-1-4131, Montana Code Annotated
(1999).
   B.   Continuation Of Connection Permit: The wastewater system impact fee
shall have no effect upon the current practice of charging customers for
additional expenses the town incurs in making a new connection into the town's
wastewater collection system main. The practice of charging the new customer
for these incidental expenses of materials and manpower shall continue.
   C.   Capitol Improvement Fund: All monies collected through this wastewater
system impact fee shall be deposited directly into the capital improvement fund
which will be called a reserve for replacement. Said account shall be used only
for expansion of the wastewater (sewer) system. Said account shall not be used
for replacement of lines or maintenance of existing lines and/or facilities.
(Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth
in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-2-3: Pipe
9-2-4: Joints
9-2-5: Application; Requirements For Service
9-2-6: Restrictions
9-2-7: Minimum Grades
9-2-8: Hookup Inspection Fee
9-2-9: Use; Discharge To Public Sewers
9-2-10: Tampering With Facilities
9-2-11: Construction
9-2-12: Sewage Quantities
9-2-13: Inspectors; Powers And Authority
9-2-14: Industrial Cost Recovery System
9-2-15: Annual Review
9-2-16: Remedies; Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
AASHTO: The American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ASA: The American Standards Association.
ASTM: The American Society For Testing Materials.
AWWA: The American Waterworks Association.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet (3') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER: A user discharging any waste stronger than residential
strength requiring more treatment than wastes from sanitary conveniences. Any
waste with a higher concentration than from a residential user with respect to
suspended solids and five (5) day twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen and oil and grease demand is classified as an industrial waste.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from all industrial commercial sources other
than residential, trade or business as distinct from domestic or sanitary
wastes.
OSHA: The occupations safety health administration.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven (7) and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWERS: The sewers constructed in streets, alleys, roadways and
easements, and are the sewers to which the building sewers connect. All public
sewers are under the control of the town.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows of normal operation. This slug will be considered
as adversely affecting the collection system and/or performance of the
wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN OR STORM SEWER: A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater,
subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
TOWN: The town of Manhattan, Montana.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "wastewater
pollution control plant". (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Construction Of Privy, Septic Tank, Cesspool: Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater.
   D.   Connection Required: Except as otherwise provided herein, the owners of
all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting on any
street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby
required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided the town determines that a service
line can reasonably be connected to the public sewer.
   E.   Interim Systems: In the event there is no capacity in the town’s public
sewer system, an interim on site wastewater treatment system may be constructed
on property and used until such time as the town’s public sewer system has
sufficient capacity for the property if such property and system meet the
following requirements:
      1.   There is no available capacity in the town’s public sewer system.
      2.   The parcel being subdivided is located within the boundaries of the
town.
      3.   The parcel to be subdivided is over twenty (20) acres and the
minimum lot size after subdivision is two (2) acres or greater.
      4.   The zoning for the new parcels will be Light Industrial (I-1). No
residential lots will be allowed an interim wastewater treatment system.
      5.   The proposed interim wastewater treatment system does not adversely
impact the town’s existing water or sewer infrastructure.
      6.   The proposed interim wastewater treatment system does not adversely
impact neighboring property.
      7.   The proposed interim wastewater treatment system does not prohibit
the town from installing public infrastructure (e.g. water mains and wells).
      8.   The system shall be reviewed and approved by the State of Montana
Department of Environmental Quality, Gallatin County City-County Health
Department, and the Town of Manhattan. Official system approval will be the
jurisdiction of the State of Montana Department of Environmental Quality and/or
Gallatin County City-County Health Department. The town has the right to deny
any interim wastewater treatment system it finds does not meet these
requirements regardless of State or County approval.
      9.   The developer of any subdivision or development that intends to use
an interim wastewater treatment system must also install the infrastructure for
a town owned wastewater collection system in accordance with the town
specification and master plans that are in effect at the time the system is
designed and installed. Once capacity in the town’s sewer is available, the
interim wastewater system shall be discontinued, permanently abandoned from all
uses, and removed/reclaimed as required or specified by the town, Gallatin
City-County Health Department, and Montana Department of Environmental Quality.
The responsibility for abandoning, removing/reclaiming, and switching from the
interim wastewater treatment system is with the developer, the Owner’s
Association for the subdivision or development and the lot owner.
      10.   The Owner’s Association shall have sixty (60) days to switch the
town’s sewer system from the date the town notifies the Owner’s Association
that capacity is available. The Owner’s Association shall call for an
inspection by the town to verify the interim wastewater treatment system has
been discontinued before any connection to the town is allowed. Failure to
switch to the town’s system or failure to call for an inspection as set out
above shall result in the town assessing the individual lots with the costs
incurred by the town as a result of the failure of the Owner’s Association to
make the switch and obtain the necessary verification. Such assessment shall
become a lien against the property if not paid within thirty (30) days of
notice of the assessment.
      11.   Once switched to the town’s sewer system, each lot shall be
assessed, and required to pay, the sewer impact fee that is in place at the
time of the switch. Failure to pay the impact fee will result in a lien against
the property that may be collected as set out in Section
9-1-8 of this Code.
      12.   The design and construction of the interim system and town owned
system shall allow for turnkey operation upon the requirement to connect to the
town owned system. The system shall be designed to discharge raw wastewater
meeting the requirements of the Manhattan Town Code, Section
9-2-9.
(Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013; amd. Ord. 22-003, 9-8-2022)
9-2-3: PIPE:
Piping used for building sewers shall be a minimum of four inches (4") and
shall conform to the following specifications:
   A.   Cast Iron Pipe And Fittings:
      1.   Cast iron pipe and fittings shall conform to the ASTM specification
A-74 and shall be heavy strength.
      2.   Cast iron pipe shall conform to the requirements of ASA A-21.6
specifications for cast iron pipe centrifugally spun in metal mold or ASA A-
21.8 specifications for cast iron pipe centrifugally spun in sand lined molds.
   B.   Vitrified Clay Sewer Pipe: Vitrified clay sewer pipe shall conform to
the requirements of ASTM specification C-200 for extra strength clay sewer
pipe.
   C.   Unglazed Vitrified Clay Sewer Pipe: Unglazed vitrified clay sewer pipe
shall conform to the requirements of ASTM specifications C-200 for extra
strength clay sewer pipe. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-4: JOINTS:
   A.   Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe: Jointing material for polyvinyl chloride pipe
shall be rubber compression rings or solvent weld.
   B.   Joints Between Unlike Materials: Joints between any unlike type
material shall be made of an adaptor type coupling or caulked joint packed with
oakum or hemp and filled with molten lead. The proper adapters may be used
providing the adaptor is furnished with stainless steel compression rings.
(Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-5: APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Application For Service: All applications for service must be made to
the town and must be signed by the owner of the property or his authorized
agent. The application will detail the type of dwelling served, commercial,
industrial or domestic, the length, grade, and size of sewer, and the block and
lot locations in the town. There shall be sufficient information such that the
town engineer or town superintendent can effectively determine the feasibility
of the proposed sewer.
   B.   Written Consent Required: If the building sewer is to be connected to a
sewer built by private parties, or is to pass through property not owned by the
applicant, the written consent of the owner shall be procured and filed with
the application. The engineer's or superintendent's approval shall be required
before construction begins. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-6: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Joints: All joints shall be watertight, and inspected by the town
engineer, town superintendent, or an authorized agent, prior to backfilling of
trenches.
   B.   Contractor's Certificate: The contractor shall supply the town a
certificate to be endorsed by the engineer or inspector specifying and
attesting to the material used, the watertight nature of the sewer and
connection to the existing sewer as provided in this chapter. In no case will
the contractor be allowed to connect a building sewer to the outlet of a septic
tank or cesspool and discharge the waste into the public system. (Ord. 13-001,
7-11-2013)
9-2-7: MINIMUM GRADES:
Building sewer grades shall have a minimum grade from the building to the
public sewer of not less than 1.25 percent (0.125 feet in 10 feet) for four
inch (4") pipe; 0.62 percent (0.062 feet in 10 feet) for six inch (6") pipe;
and 0.40 percent (0.040 feet in 10 feet) for eight inch (8") pipe. (Ord. 13-
001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-8: HOOKUP INSPECTION FEE:
A minimum fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged for inspection of each
service connection. Special conditions may be established by the town in the
case of multiple hookups. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-9: USE; DISCHARGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Unpolluted Drainage: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Flammable Or Explosive: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Toxic Or Poisonous: Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans, or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
      3.   pH: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than
9.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Solid Or Viscous Substances: Solid or viscous substances in
quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater
facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   C.   Harmful Materials/Substances: The following described substances,
materials, waters or wastes shall be limited in discharges to the town systems
to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. The town council may set limitations lower
than the limitations established in the regulations below if, in their opinion,
such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In
forming their opinion as to the acceptability, the town council will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant,
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the town council are as follows:
      1.   Temperature: Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Oils: Wastewater containing more than ten milligrams per liter (10
mg/l) of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Oil, Fat Or Grease: Wastewater from any source containing floatable
oils, fat, or grease of more than twenty five milligrams per liter (25 mg/l).
      4.   Improperly Shredded Garbage: Any garbage that has not been properly
shredded (see section
9-2-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Objectionable Substances: Any waters or wastes containing the
following or similar objectionable substances to such a degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the following limits or the limits established by the town
superintendent for such materials:
Iron     5.0 mg/l
Nickel   1.0 mg/l
Chromium 3.0 mg/l
Lead     0.1 mg/l
Copper   1.0 mg/l
Cadmium  0.02 mg/l
Zinc     2.5 mg/l
Boron    1.0 mg/l
 
      6.   Radioactive: Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half- life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable state or
federal regulations.
      7.   Slug: Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined herein.
      8.   Substances Not Amenable To Treatment: Waters or wastes containing
substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater
treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree
that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of
other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      9.   Interaction Causes Interference Or Deleterious Condition: Any water
or wastes which, by interaction with other obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   D.   Authority To Reject; Require Pretreatment Or Control Quantity: If any
waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public
sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in subsection C of this section and which, in the judgment of the
town superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the town
superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require a pretreatment system designed and stamped by a Montana
licensed professional engineer to treat the waste to an acceptable condition
for discharge to the public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge to the
public sewers;
      4.   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   E.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the town superintendent, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in
excessive amounts, as specified in subsection C3 of this section, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town
superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the town superintendent. Any removal
and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must
be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   F.   Owner's Expense: Where pretreatment of flow equalizing facilities are
provided or required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
   G.   Control Manhole Required: When required by the town council, the owner
of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall
install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the town council. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his
expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   H.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses:
      1.   Standards: All measurements, tests, and analyses to the
characteristics of water and wastes as required by this chapter shall be done
in accordance with "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage".
All such samples shall be taken at either the control manhole or the nearest
manhole downstream from the point the building sewer enters the sanitary sewer.
Testing will include a five (5) day BOD, suspended solids and a flow
measurement.
      2.   Tests Required: If necessary, and at the discretion of the town
engineer, testing for grease, oil, fecal coliform and heavy metals may be
required.
      3.   Responsibility For Testing: All testing, measurements and analyses
shall be the sole responsibility of the industrial user. The user shall bear
all expense for the required testing. The industry shall notify the town, in
writing, prior to conducting the required tests. The town shall have the right
to witness the testing procedure if it so desires. The industrial customer
shall provide the town with the results of said tests. The required
measurements and tests shall be taken at intervals of one year. For
intermittent operation, the industry shall notify the town, in writing, prior
to the discharge of pollutants, and also prior to the termination of said
discharge to assure equity of the assessed charges.
   I.   Additional Testing: If, for any reason, the town suspects the validity
of the tests conducted by the industry, the town may require additional testing
done in the presence of the town superintendent or other authorized personnel.
The costs of additional testing shall be the responsibility of the industry.
(Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-10: TAMPERING WITH FACILITIES:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord.
13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-11: CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Cost And Expense; Indemnification: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   B.   Compliance Required: All construction work will be done in accordance
with all state and federal occupational safety and health legislation.
   C.   Trench: When the character of the material will permit, the bottom of
the trench shall be shaped to conform to the bottom of the sewer. Where the
bottom of the trench cannot be shaped or rocks and boulders are present, the
contractor shall provide a minimum of four inches (4") of bedding material
below the service pipe and a minimum of six inches (6") of bedding material on
the sides and the top of the service pipe and shall consist of sand, sand
gravel, or other suitable granular material having a maximum size of three-
fourths inch (3/4"), having uniform grading, and having a maximum plasticity of
six (6) as determined by AASHTO, methods T 89-69 and T 90-61. The bedding
material shall be compacted to the extent that the bed of the pipe is firm and
is exact to line and grade. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-12: SEWAGE QUANTITIES:
Where the expected sewage flow from a facility exceeds thirty two (32) gallons
per minute for a five (5) hour period, or ten thousand (10,000) gallons per
day, approval from the town engineer will be required. Approval will be based
upon the types of flow equalizing equipment and preliminary treatment
facilities provided for the heavy loadings of BOD, suspended solids, nutrients,
and heavy metals present in the sewage. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-13: INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Right To Enter: The town superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the community
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Confidential Information: The town superintendent is authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The
industry may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   Safety Rules Observed: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred in subsection A of this section, the town representative
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
subsection 9-2-9H of this chapter.
   D.   Access To Easements: The town superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. Access over an easement
shall not be blocked or hindered. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 13-001,
7-11-2013)
9-2-14: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM:
   A.   Submission And Approval: Each new industrial sewer user that desires to
be connected to the public sewer shall furnish an estimate of the BOD and
suspended solid concentrations expected, as well as discharge volume. After a
month of full operation, and at one year intervals thereafter, tests will be
taken according to subsection 9-2-9H of this chapter. Use assessments will then
be made according to the industrial rate formula in subsection 9-1-10B of this
title.
   B.   Cost Recovery:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section shall be to define the
proportional share of the federal grant to be recovered from the users
discharging industrial wastewater to the wastewater system. An industrial user
that discharges no more than twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per
operating day of wastes equivalent to sanitary waste is exempt from the ICR
requirements. "Sanitary wastes" are defined as being equivalent to the BOD and
TSS strength of the average residential user. Also, if any industrial user
contributes wastes that adversely effect the treatment and disposal of effluent
or sludge from the wastewater treatment works, (for example: toxic wastes,
wastes that require additional treatment prior to final disposal, etc.), then
such user is not exempt from the ICR requirements even though the volumes BOD
and TSS are within the limits noted in subsection 9-1-10B of this title.
      2.   Formula For Computation: As per subsection 9-2-9H of this chapter,
the results received from the industrial customers shall be used to compute the
proportional share of the federal grant. The town shall use the following
formula for determining this share. The formula is based on EPA publication,
"MCD-45 Federal Guidelines-Industrial Cost Recovery Systems".
 
               Total V                Total BOD
Annual share = 1/2 (Design flow rate + Design BOD effluent)
               @ plant                @ plant
 
Annual share is the percentile of the federal grant monies to be assessed to
the industry.
V is the average discharge rate of the industry.
BOD is the average discharge rate of BOD.
      3.   Annual Industrial Cost Recovery Amount: To determine the annual
industrial cost recovery amount, the annual share computed in subsection B2 of
this section shall be multiplied by the grant amounts allocable to the
treatment facilities. This value shall then be divided by the life of the
project in years to obtain the annual cost recovery for each user. If more than
one project is involved, the annual industrial cost recovery amount shall be
determined for each project and all such amounts shall be added and billed to
the user. The town will assess a flat rate cost recovery charge on all small
industries, where they can demonstrate it is fair or it would be
administratively impractical to monitor the industries from which it proposes
to collect such a charge.
      4.   Annual Statement; Nonpayment By User: The town shall submit an
annual statement to the industry for the annual industrial cost recovery amount
required in excess of the amount charged under subsection 9-1-10B of this
title. The town shall add a penalty of five percent (5%) per month if the
payment is not received by the town within fifteen (15) days. Should any
industrial user fail to pay the annual industrial cost recovery amount and
penalty within three (3) months of the due date, the Town may stop the
wastewater service to the property. The first payment by an industrial user
shall be made not later than one (1) year after such user begins use of the
wastewater system.
      5.   Annual Review: The Town shall review the cost recovery system as
well as each industry user's wastewater contribution percentage on an annual
basis to assure equity of the annual industrial cost recovery system. If a
significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant modifications
which would change that industry's wastewater contribution percentage, the user
can present, at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council, such factual
information and the Town shall then determine if the industry's wastewater
contribution percentage is to be changed. The Town shall notify the industry of
its findings as soon as possible.
      6.   Disposition Of Funds: The Town shall retain fifty percent (50%) of
the amounts recovered from industrial users. The remainder, together with any
interest earned thereon, shall be returned to the United States Treasury on an
annual basis. A minimum of eighty percent (80%) of the retained amounts shall
be used solely as indicated in section 35.928-2 of the Federal Register of
February 11, 1974, which contains the regulations for construction grants for
waste treatment works.
      7.   Separate Fund: The funds received from the collection of sewer user
charges shall be kept as a separate and distinct fund by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, subject only to disbursement by order of the Town Council. This fund
shall be used for:
         a.   The payment of the cost of management;
         b.   Maintenance;
         c.   Operation;
         d.   Repair of the sewage system, including treatment and disposal
works;
         e.   For the creation of a sinking fund for the retirement of any
indebtedness;
         f.   For the payment of interest on any such indebtedness;
         g.   Any surplus in such fund may be used for the enlargement or
replacement of the same and for the payment of the interest on any debt
incurred for the construction of such sewage system, including sewage pumping,
treatment and disposal works, and for retiring such debt, but shall not be used
for the extension of a sewage system to serve unsewered areas or for any
purpose other than one (1) or more of those above specified. (Ord. 13-001, 7-
11-2013)
9-2-15: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The Town shall review the total cost of operation and maintenance as well as
each user's wastewater contribution on an annual basis and will revise the
system as necessary to assure equity of the service charge system established
herein and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate
and maintain the wastewater treatment works. (Ord. 13-001, 7-11-2013)
9-2-16: REMEDIES; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or fail to comply with the foregoing requirements shall become liable
to the Town for any expenses, losses or damages occasioned to the Town by
reason of such violation or failure of compliance.
   B.   Nonpayment: In the event of nonpayment of charges for either water or
sewer service and benefits to any premises, the Town Council may direct the
supply of water to such premises to be discontinued until such charges are
paid. (Ord. 17-003, 5-13-2017)
CHAPTER 3
WATER RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Application For Connection Permit; Fees; Meters
9-3-2: Curb Shutoff Valves
9-3-3: Rates And Charges
9-3-4: Service Not Provided Outside Town Limits
9-3-5: Rules Governing Water Department
9-3-6: Complaints
9-3-7: Discontinuance Of Service; Notice Required
9-3-8: Watering And Irrigating
9-3-9: Competitive System
9-3-10: Exempt Wells For Irrigation Of Landscaping, Parks, Open Space And
School Property
9-3-11: Exempt Wells For Interim Use By New Subdivisions
9-3-1: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION PERMIT; FEES; METERS:
   A.   Permit Application, Fees Required: All persons required or desiring to
make connection with the public water system shall make application to the town
for a water connection permit and must pay all applicable fees and charges
established for water service herein.
   B.   Approved Water Meters:
      1.   For calendar year 2009, the town has received grants and obtained
loans for a project to install water meters for all water services in the town.
In connection with such project, the town will acquire radio-read water meters
and will contract for the installation of such meters in the town. The town, in
the exercise of its police powers, will require the owners of property serviced
by town water lines to permit the installation of water meters on private
property, as required for appropriate meter use.
      2.   After the initial meter project mentioned in subsection B1 of this
section, all owners of property requesting water services from the town will be
required to install a town approved water meter as hereinafter provided.
      3.   Only town approved radio-read meters may be used for the metering of
water consumption for town water billing purposes. The fee for obtaining a
water meter will be set by resolution by the town council. By utilizing radio-
read meters, the town will be able to read meters from the street.
   C.   Utility's Responsibility: It shall be the utility's responsibility to:
      1.   Approve the size and type of the municipal water meter to be
installed on any water service line connected with the municipal water supply
system.
      2.   Ensure that all municipal water meters are properly sealed prior to
installation on water service lines.
      3.   Maintain the municipal water meter and any required remote reading
equipment on every water service line.
      4.   Periodically check all municipal water meters that are in service
for tampering, bypassing, or any other acts of water theft.
   D.   Customer Responsibility: It shall be the customer's responsibility to:
      1.   Provide a location approved by the public works department for
installation of the municipal water meter that is readable, properly protected
from damage due to freezing or other adverse access conditions, and allows for
sufficient access to work or maintain the water meter.
      2.   Furnish and install a water meter according to town specifications.
      3.   Pay the costs associated with repair or replacement of the meter
because of damage due to neglect or an intentional act by the customer. When a
customer is liable for the repair or replacement, the actual cost may be added
to the water bill for the property served by the water meter.
      4.   Unless provided by the town through the 2009 water meter project,
the customer shall also maintain the service line to the curb stop.
   E.   Meter Installation Requirements: Water meters may only be installed by
persons authorized by law to do so, and pursuant to applicable approval from
the Town. Water meters must be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and the Manhattan design specifications, and will be inspected by
the Town for compliance therewith. A water meter bypass will not be allowed.
Water meters will only be installed at the location approved by the Town. If a
water meter cannot practically be installed in a building or crawl space, the
Town may install such meter in an outside meter pit. If a property owner
refuses to allow a meter to be installed in a building or crawl space, which
could practically accommodate a meter, the Town may place the meter in an
outside meter box and bill the property owner the charges for constructing the
meter pit. (Ord. 08-007, 1-20-2009)
9-3-2: CURB SHUTOFF VALVES:
All curb shutoff valves shall be located at least one foot (1') outside the
property line of the occupant. No occupant or resident shall allow any debris,
shrubbery, trees, or structures to lie over the curb shutoff valve. All
operation and maintenance of the curb shutoff valve is the responsibility of
the Town Superintendent. All expenses incurred in repair of the curb shutoff
valve resulting from normal wear and tear shall be the responsibility of the
Town; otherwise, all other expenses incurred in maintenance, operation and
repair of the curb shutoff valve shall be the sole responsibility of the
recipient of the service at the time the repairs are made. (1977 Code §
6.02.190; amd. 2000 Code)
9-3-3: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Flat Rate: Until thirty (30) days after the Town finishes its 2009
water meter installation, water rates shall be a flat rate. Thereafter, the
rates will be at metered rates which shall be set by resolution.
   B.   Rates: The Town Council will establish and change the water rates and
charges by resolution after notice and hearing as provided in sections 69-7-111
and 69-7-112, Montana Code Annotated (2007). (Ord. 08-007, 1-20-2009)
   C.   Liability For Charges: The owner of each premises to which water
service is available from a main line owned or operated by the Town shall be
solely liable for payment of the charges hereinabove prescribed. The owner
shall have the opportunity to resolve any disputes regarding the bill before a
tax assessment is made. If such delinquency persists for more than sixty (60)
days, the outstanding amount shall be assessed as a tax against the owner of
the property in accordance with the provisions as set forth under Montana Code
Annotated section 7-13-4309. The Town will not bill tenants for water or sewer
service. (Ord. 17-003, 5-13-2017)
   D.   Water System Impact Fees:
      1.   Fee Established: The Town Council may increase the water system
impact fees as necessary from time to time by resolution after notice and
hearing as provided in sections 7-1-4128 and 7-1-4131, Montana Code Annotated
(1999). (Ord. 274, 6-12-2001)
      2.   Application Of Fee: The water system impact fee shall apply only to
new service lines. The fee shall not apply to service lines already installed
but not metered or to equivalent (but not larger) replacement lines that are
replaced within one hundred twenty (120) days of termination of use of a
service line. The permit holder does not lose the impact fees if he does not
build. The impact fee paid for a certain property is nontransferable.
Presently, the zoning permit fee and the water and wastewater (sewer) hookup
fees are forfeited if the owner does not build.
      3.   Two Types Of Lines: Two (2) water lines will be available for
customers:
         a.   Static Line: A static line (for fire protection) requires the
user to pay hookup fees but not impact fees.
         b.   User Line: A user line requires the payment of both hookup and
impact fees.
      4.   Additional Fees: The water system impact fee shall be in addition to
all other permit and tapping fees and shall have no impact upon the current
practice of charging customers for additional expenses the Town incurs in
making a new connection into the Town's water main. This practice of charging
the new customer for these incidental expenses of materials and manpower shall
continue.
      5.   Capital Improvement Fund: All monies collected through this water
system impact fee shall be deposited directly into the Capital Improvement Fund
which will be called a reserve for replacement. Said account shall be used only
for expansion of the water system. Said account shall not be used for
replacement of lines or maintenance of existing lines and/or facilities. (1977
Code § 6.02.075)
   E.   Delinquent Bills:
      1.   Constituted Delinquent: All water bills shall be considered
delinquent if they remain unpaid for twenty five (25) days from the date the
water bill was mailed from the Town office.
      2.   Notice Of Termination; Fee: The Town shall send a written notice
informing the owner of the property of the possibility of termination of
service and the procedure for challenging the bill. Unless the outstanding
balance is paid in full within ten (10) days after receipt of the written
notice of delinquency, and the opportunity to dispute the bill has been made,
the water service will be shut off and terminated immediately.
      3.   Turn-On Fee: The Town shall be allowed to charge a fee for turning
the water service back on as a condition of reactivating the water service.
      4.   Interest Charges: Any unpaid water bill that is more than thirty
(30) days past due shall have interest assessed against it in the amount of ten
percent (10%) per annum. (Ord. 17-003, 5-13-2017)
9-3-4: SERVICE NOT PROVIDED OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS:
No service shall be provided to any person to real property which is located
outside the Town limits without the express concurrence of the majority of the
Town Council. (1977 Code § 6.02.150)
9-3-5: RULES GOVERNING WATER DEPARTMENT:
The following rules are adopted pursuant to section 69-7-201, Montana Code
Annotated, and together with the other sections in this chapter shall regulate
the use and supply of water in the Town:
Rule 1: No person supplied with water from the Town mains will be entitled to
use it for any other purpose than those stated in the application, or supply it
in any way to other persons or families.
Rule 2: The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each separate
house or premises may be controlled by a separate shutoff valve placed as
described in section
9-3-2 of this chapter, and one (1) person, company or association must pay for
all the water used through said service of his, her or their own use, or for
the use of others to whom it may be accessible.
Rule 3: Where water is now supplied through one (1) service to several houses,
families or persons, the Public Works Director may either decline to furnish
water until separate services are provided, or may continue the supply on the
condition that one (1) person shall pay for all on the same service.
Rule 4: The water may be shut off at any time from the mains without the notice
for repairs, extension or other necessary purposes, and persons having boilers
supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against danger of
explosion or collapse. The Town will not be responsible for the safety of the
boilers on the premises of any water consumer.
Rule 5: The Town shall not be responsible for service pipes and fixtures on the
effluent side of the curb stop. All owners, at their own expense, must keep
service pipes from the Town mains and all their apparatus in good working order
and properly protected from frost or other dangers. No claims shall be made
against the Town on account of the breaking of any service pipes or apparatus,
or for accidental failure in the supply of water. No reduction from the regular
rates shall be made for any time that service pipes or fixtures may be frozen.
Rule 6: No plumber or other person will be allowed to make connections with the
Town mains or make connections in any conduit, pipe or fixture connecting
therewith, or to connect pipes when they have been disconnected, or to turn
water or meters off or on for any premises without permission of the Water
Department.
Rule 7: No one but licensed plumbers and Town personnel shall be allowed to do
any work in connection with the Town water service lines where water may be
drawn from the Town mains, and all plumbers must make in writing an accurate
return of the work done within twenty four (24) hours after completion, and
before water will be turned on the plumber must describe the position of the
service pipes, ferrules, stopcocks, shutoff valves and other fixtures by
reference to street and lot corners, in a form required by the Water
Department.
Rule 8: Employees of the Water Department shall have access at reasonable hours
to all parts of buildings in which water is delivered from the Town mains for
the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes, meters and fixtures, the
manner in which water is used, and for the purposes of placing, repairing or
replacing meters. Access shall also be granted to employees of the utility to
cut off the water supply in absence of an outside shutoff valve. If access is
denied, the utility has the authority and reserves the right to install a
shutoff valve and shut the water off.
Rule 9: On failure to comply with the rules and regulations established as a
condition to the use of water, or to pay the water rates or any charge or
penalty imposed in this chapter, in the time and manner herein provided, a
water service may be shut off until payment of the amount due is made, together
with an amount to be set by resolution to cover the expense of turning the
water on and off after notice as set out in subsection 9-3-3E2 of this chapter.
In addition, any time an individual requests that the water to a home or place
of business be turned on or off, there shall be assessed an amount to be set by
resolution for turning the water on or off.
Rule 10: Any defective meter may be removed at the discretion of the Director
of Public Works. Should a meter fail to register accurately, the consumer shall
be charged at the average daily consumption as shown by the meter during the
last three (3) months that the same was in good order. In the event a consumer
notifies the Water Department that the meter is not registering accurately, the
Director of Public Works may arrange for testing of the meter at the Town's
expense. Tests conducted by the Town, or its contractors, to determine the
accuracy of the meter shall be conclusive in determining whether the meter is
properly working.
Rule 11: When meters are in use for determining the amount of water used by
consumers, the water rates shall be as established by the Town Council as
provided in section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
Rule 12: Only authorized representatives of the Town Water Department will read
meters. If a meter is unable to be read, then there will be an estimated amount
billed, based on the average daily consumption as shown by the meter during the
prior three (3) months. Any adjustment to the water bill must be made only
after an actual meter reading by approved Town meter readers. (Ord. 08-007, 1-
20-2009)
9-3-6: COMPLAINTS:
Any user who has a complaint shall notify the Town Clerk/Treasurer, in writing.
(1977 Code § 6.02.130)
9-3-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE REQUIRED:
Every property owner who is about to vacate any premises supplied with service
by the utility, or who, for any reason, wishes to have service discontinued,
shall give at least twenty four (24) hours' notice thereof to the utility,
specifying the date on which it is desired the service be discontinued. Until
the utility receives such notice, the owner shall be held responsible for all
service rendered. (Ord. 17-003, 5-13-2017)
9-3-8: WATERING AND IRRIGATING:
   A.   Use Prohibited During Certain Hours:
      1.   Addresses:
         a.   Even Numbered Addresses: All lots and houses whose street
addresses end in 2, 4, 6, 8, or 0 will water on even calendar dates.
         b.   Odd Numbered Addresses: All lots and houses whose street
addresses end in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9 will water on odd calendar dates.
      2.   Thirty First Day Of Month: All residents will be allowed to water on
the thirty first day of the month.
      3.   Sprinkling Hours: Sprinkling hours will be from four o'clock (4:00)
A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight.
      4.   Town Parks: Town parks will be allowed to water during the day with
fewer sprinkler heads.
   B.   Proper Nozzle Or Sprinkler Required: No watering or irrigation shall be
made by any person unless the hose or water outlets shall be connected with a
proper nozzle or sprinkler, and the use of a hose or a water outlet without an
approved nozzle or sprinkler is hereby expressly prohibited and shall subject
the user to the penalties hereinafter provided for. Should the water line or
equipment result in a leak, the Town is authorized to shut off water service to
the occupant until the repair is completed.
   C.   Penalty: In the event that any person shall violate any of the
provisions of these rules and regulations, the Town, through its officers and
agents, is hereby authorized to turn off the water and before the water can be
turned on again, payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be made to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer. (Ord. 08-007, 1-20-2009)
9-3-9: COMPETITIVE SYSTEM:
The town will continue to operate the system as a public utility and
convenience of the town and will not establish or authorize another system for
supplying service in competition therewith, except as set out in sections
9-3-10 and
9-3-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-001, 3-10-2016; amd. Ord 20-002, 12-12-2020)
9-3-10: EXEMPT WELLS FOR IRRIGATION OF LANDSCAPING, PARKS, OPEN SPACE AND
SCHOOL PROPERTY:
   A.   Permitted Use: Wells with a maximum appropriation of thirty five (35)
gallons per minute and ten (10) acre-feet per year that are exempt from the
DNRC permitting requirements, in accordance with section 85-2-306, Montana Code
Annotated, shall be allowed within the limits of the town of Manhattan solely
for the purpose of irrigation of landscaping, parks, open spaces and school
property.
   B.   Defined Terms:
 
IRRIGATION:      The artificial application of water to land to assist growth
                 of vegetation.
                 Any property with vegetative plantings which are actively
LANDSCAPING:     maintained for aesthetic and recreational purposes. Includes
                 for purposes of this section, sod, grass, trees, small
                 plantings, and shrubbery.
                 Land or water areas retained for use as active or passive
OPEN SPACES:     recreation areas or for resource protection in an essentially
                 undeveloped state, devoid of buildings except where accessory
                 to the provision of recreation.
                 That area designated as a park on a plat and is maintained by
PARKS:           a homeowners' association or the town and is dedicated to use
                 by the public.
SCHOOL PROPERTY: Any property owned by a public school.
 
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Wells shall not be allowed for any reason for
residential, commercial or other uses except as set out in this section and
section
9-3-11 of this chapter.
   D.   Drilling Requirements: All wells shall be drilled by a well driller
licensed in the state of Montana and each must have a properly designed
backflow preventer, meeting AWWA standards. The driller's information shall be
submitted to the town before the well is drilled and wells shall be inspected
by the town before the well may be used.
   E.   Permit Responsibility: If any permits are required pursuant to section
85-2-306, Montana Code Annotated, it shall be the sole responsibility of the
party having the well drilled to apply for and receive any such permit.
   F.   Watering And Irrigation Restrictions: All wells drilled and used
pursuant to this section shall be subject to the watering and irrigation
restrictions as set out in section
9-3-8 of this chapter.
   G.   Notice Requirements: Each lot owner shall complete and submit to the
town the Irrigation Well Notice Form before drilling begins. The owner shall
notify the town at least one (1) week before backfilling any trenches. The town
shall inspect the well to ensure the well is not connected to any structure.
Further, following the initial inspection, the town may inspect a well from
time to time to ensure no connection to any structure has occurred. (Ord. 08-
002, 4-8-2008; amd. Ord. 16-001, 3-10-2016; Ord. 20-002, 12-12-2020)
9-3-11: EXEMPT WELLS FOR INTERIM USE BY NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Permitted Use: Wells with a maximum appropriation of thirty five (35)
gallons per minute and ten (10) acre-feet per year which qualify for the 602
exemption by DNRC such that they are exempt from the DNRC permitting
requirements, in accordance with section 85-2-306, Montana Code Annotated,
shall be allowed within the limits of the town of Manhattan solely for the
purpose of interim domestic use in subdivisions preliminarily approved before
2014, until such time as a public water supply is available for those lots in a
subdivision that are served by the interim wells. The developer of any
subdivision that intends to use such exempt wells must also supply the
infrastructure for a public fresh water system in accordance with the town
specifications that are in effect at the time the system is designed and
installed. Once a public water supply is available and placed into the
subdivision's public fresh water system, the interim wells shall be
discontinued for domestic use and permanently capped or physically disconnected
from all uses except irrigation as allowed in section
9-3-10. The responsibility for switching the water supply from the wells to the
public supply is with the owner of the property at the time the supply is
switched. The property owner must call for an inspection by the town to verify
that the well has been disconnected before any connection to town water is
allowed.
   B.   Defined Terms:
 
LANDSCAPED AREAS: Any property with vegetative plantings which are actively
                  maintained for aesthetic and recreational purposes.
                  Land or water areas retained for the use as active or passive
OPEN SPACE:       recreation areas or for resource protection in an essentially
                  undeveloped state, devoid of buildings except where accessory
                  to the provision of recreation.
                  That area designed as a park on a plat and is maintained by a
PARKS:            homeowners' association or the town and is dedicated to use
                  by the public.
 
   C.   Restrictions: Thirty five (35) gpm wells shall only be allowed for the
purposes described herein and in section
9-3-10 of this chapter in their most stringent interpretation.
   D.   Drilling Requirements: All wells shall be drilled by a well driller
licensed in the state of Montana and each must have a properly designed and
serviceable backflow preventer, meeting all AWWA standards. The driller's
information shall be submitted to the town before the well is drilled and wells
shall be inspected by the town before the well may be used.
   E.   Design Requirements: All public and interim water supply systems shall
be designed by a professional engineer, shall be reviewed and approved by DEQ
prior to construction, and shall be maintained by a DEQ certified operator, if
required by DEQ. Such system shall be designed to facilitate its immediate and
permanent disconnection from the system when the municipal supply becomes
available.
   F.   Permit Responsibility: If any permits are required pursuant to section
85-2-306, Montana Code Annotated, it shall be the responsibility of the party
having the well drilled to apply for and receive any such permit.
   G.   Watering And Irrigation Regulations: All watering and irrigation
regulations as set out in section
9-3-8 of this chapter apply to any wells used for such purposes. (Ord. 08-005,
12-9-2008; amd. Ord. 16-001, 3-10-2016; Ord. 20- 002, 12-12-2020)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Violation
10-1-4: Validity
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE ONE MILE
JURISDICTIONAL AREA AND THE TOWN OF MANHATTAN, and referred to as the zoning
title of this code. In accordance with and exercising the authority of Montana
Code Annotated section 76-2-301. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to:
   A.   Promote the general health, safety and welfare of the public.
   B.   Protect agricultural activities.
   C.   Prevent congestion in the streets and provide for adequate parking
space.
   D.   Promote safety from fire and other dangers.
   E.   Provide for adequate light and pure air.
   F.   Prevent overcrowding and blight conditions.
   G.   Facilitate the adequate provision of public services such as water,
sewerage, schools and parks.
   H.   Provide for appeals to the board of adjustment.
   I.   Protect property values.
   J.   Promote livability and environmental quality of the town. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-1-3: VIOLATION:
   A.   Violation; Failure To Comply: Violation of the provisions of this title
or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with the grant of variances
or any of the requirements for conditions imposed by the planning board, board
of adjustment and/or town council shall constitute a municipal infraction.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates this title or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code.
   C.   Continuing Violation: Each day such violation continues may be
considered a separate offense and punishable as such.
   D.   Separate Offense: The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or
other person who commits, participates in, assists, or maintains such violation
may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein
provided.
   E.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town
council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
   F.   Land Use; Violation: No use of land shall be permitted or conditionally
permitted within the town of Manhattan that is in violation of the laws of the
United States, the state or this code. (Ord. 10-002, 7-13-2010)
10-1-4: VALIDITY:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed,
but if any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, or provision is held
invalid, the remainder of this title shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules Of Construction: Words used in the present tense shall also
include the future; words used in the singular shall also include plural, and
words used in the plural shall also include the singular; the word "building"
includes structure and "structure" includes building; the words "used" or
"occupied" shall include within their meaning "intended", "arranged", or
"designed to be used or occupied". The word "person" shall include corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity. Where other definitions are necessary and
are not defined herein, the town council may define such terms. (Ord. 253, 12-
1-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   General Definitions: For the purpose of this title, certain terms and
words are defined as follows:
    ACCESSORY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES: A subordinate building or on the same
lot exclusively occupied by or devoted to a use incidental to the main use.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use subordinate to the main use on a lot and used for
purposes customarily incidental to those of the main use.
   ALLEY: A narrow serviceway providing a secondary public means of access to
abutting properties.
   ANTENNA: One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omnidirectional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic
antenna (disc).
   APARTMENT BUILDING: A building or portion thereof designed with two (2) or
more individual dwelling units.
   APARTMENT, EFFICIENCY: An apartment unit with unseparated areas for sleeping
and/or cooking.
   AUTOMOBILE AND CONVENIENCE CENTER OR GASOLINE STATION: Any building or
premises used for the dispensing or sale of automobile fuels, lubrication oil,
grease, tires, batteries or minor automobile accessories. Services offered may
include the installation of tires, batteries and minor accessories, minor
automobile repairs and greasing or washing of individual automobiles. When
sales, services and repairs as detailed here are offered as incidental to the
conduct of a parking garage, the premises shall be classified as a parking
garage. See definition of Garage, Repair.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled, or partially
dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked vehicles, or other parts, or any combination
of these activities. See definition of Junkyard.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building partly underground and having at least
one-half (1/2) of its lower level below the average finished grade adjoining
the building.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: A single-family dwelling which remains owner occupied at
all times providing one or more guestrooms for compensation and where food
service is limited to breakfast which may be served to overnight guests only.
   BLOCK: A piece or tract of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
streets, waterways, railway rights of way or parks, etc., or a combination
thereof.
   BOARDING/LODGING HOUSE: A building with more than two (2) but not more than
ten (10) guestrooms where lodging with or without meals is provided for
compensation.
   BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for support, enclosure and/or
shelter of persons, animals, chattels or property.
   BUILDING AREA: That portion of the lot that can be occupied by structure,
excluding the front, rear and side yards.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of a building to the highest point of a
flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof, and the mean height between the
highest eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The inspector, designated by the Town Council, who is
responsible for accepting, reviewing and approving or rejecting plans for
buildings and applications for building permits and for the interpretation and
enforcement of Building Codes related thereto.
   CARETAKER FACILITIES: A single-family dwelling unit on a nonresidential
premises, occupied by the person who oversees the nonresidential operation
twenty four (24) hours a day, and his or her family with a dwelling unit area
not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total building area.
   CASINO: An establishment that includes gambling as a use or activity, either
in the form of gambling machines (video poker, keno, etc.), card games, or
other licensed gambling activity, if one or more of the following
characteristics applies:
      1.   The establishment is referenced as a casino by signage or name;
      2.   One or more card tables are on the premises; or
      3.   One or more gambling machines are on the premises.
   CHURCH OR SIMILAR PLACE OF WORSHIP: A building designed for public worship
by any religious organization.
   CLINIC: A building designed and used for the medical, dental or surgical
diagnosis or treatment of patients under the care of doctors and/or nurses.
   CLUBS (FRATERNAL LODGES): Buildings and facilities owned and operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   CONDITIONAL USE: Uses, other than permitted uses, that may be allowed in a
specific district but requiring additional safeguards to maintain and assure
the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community and to maintain
the character of the district.
   COVERAGE: That percent of the plot or lot area defined by the exterior of
the building's walls.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A place in which supplemental parental care is provided to
thirteen (13) or more children on a regular basis including the provider's own
children who are less than six (6) years of age.
   DAYCARE HOME: A place in which supplemental parental care is provided to
three (3) to six (6) children, no more than three (3) children under two (2)
years of age from separate families on a regular basis, including the
provider's own children who are less than six (6) years of age.
   DENSITY: The total number of dwelling units allowed per gross acre.
   DISTRICT: An area within the Town and jurisdictional area of the size and
shape shown on the official zoning map in which the regulations governing the
area, height and use of buildings and associated lots are the same. Also see
definition of zone.
   DRIVE-IN EATING ESTABLISHMENTS: A building or structure from which persons
are served prepared food and drink in their automobile or at curbside, but
which may or may not have an area for customers to receive and/or eat food
outside of an automobile.
   DWELLING: A building or a portion thereof, designed and used exclusively for
residential occupancy and providing housekeeping facilities for one family. As
used in this title, the term dwelling shall refer to single-family, two-family,
multi-family, manufactured homes and modular homes but does not include hotels,
motels, boarding or lodging houses, campgrounds and travel trailers.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE: See definition of apartment building.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for and occupied exclusively by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A building designed for and occupied
exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other.
   ELDERCARE FACILITY: A facility operated similarly to a boarding house with
not more than five (5) full time residents, and in which nursing, dietary and
other personal services are furnished to residents; but which serves no persons
suffering from an acute mental sickness, or from a contagious or communicable
disease; and in which facility no surgery is performed, nor are other primary
treatments such as those customarily provided in hospitals; and which serves no
persons who generally would be admitted to a mental hospital.
   FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage, or a group of not more than four (4) persons who need not be related
by blood or marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FLOOR AREA:
    Gross: Gross floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
several floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls,
or from the centerline of a wall separating two (2) buildings, but not
including interior parking spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any
space where the floor to ceiling height is less than six feet (6'). The gross
square footage of the building is utilized to determine the minimum floor area
required for each zoning district unless otherwise noted.
    Net: Net floor area means the total of all floor areas of a building,
excluding walls, stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior
vehicular parking or loading. The net floor area is typically for human
occupation within a building and to determine the floor area of various uses
within a building.
   FOOTPRINT: The ground square footage of the structure that covers the lot.
   FRONT LOT LINES: The boundary line separating the lot from the street as
officially platted on the town map. Where a lot has more than one adjacent
street, the front lot line shall be that which has the narrowest street
frontage.
   GARAGE, PARKING: A building or portion of a building, except any defined in
this title as a "private garage" or as a "repair garage", used for the
temporary storage of motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for
remuneration or hire, in which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is
only incidental to the principal use.
   GARAGE, REPAIR: A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles, but not including factory assembly of such vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments, machine shops or junkyards.
   GROUP DAYCARE HOME: The place in which supplemental parental care is
provided to seven (7) to twelve (12) children on a regular basis including the
provider's own children who are less than six (6) years of age.
   GUESTHOUSE: A single-family dwelling which rents for under thirty (30) days
and is licensed with the Montana department of revenue and the Gallatin County
board of health.
   HOME OCCUPATION OR COTTAGE INDUSTRY 1 : An occupation which is carried on in
a dwelling unit, and:
      1.   Is carried on only within the principal building or its accessory
buildings.
      2.   Is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for
residential purposes.
      3.   Which conforms to the following conditions:
         a.   No exterior signs shall be erected or displayed.
         b.   There shall be no exterior storage of materials or other
variation from the residential character of the principal building.
         c.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare
shall be produced.
         d.   Employment of not more than one person not a member of the
immediate family is permitted.
         e.   No traffic may be generated in greater volume than would be
expected in a residential neighborhood.
   HOME; REST, CONVALESCENT, FOR THE AGED: A home operated similarly to a
boarding house but not restricted to any number of guests or guestrooms, and in
which nursing, dietary and other personal services are furnished to
convalescents, invalids and aged persons, but in which homes are kept no
persons suffering from an acute mental sickness, or from a contagious or
communicable disease, and in which homes are performed no surgery or other
primary treatments such as are customarily provided in hospitals, and in which
no persons are kept or served that generally would be admitted to a mental
hospital.
   HOSPITAL: An establishment which provides accommodations, facilities and
services over a continuous period of twenty four (24) hours for observation,
diagnosis and care, of individuals who are suffering from illness, injury,
deformity or abnormality, or from any condition requiring obstetrical, medical
or surgical services.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or portion thereof containing five (5) or more
rooms that are rented or hired out to be occupied or which are occupied for
sleeping purposes for compensation, whether the compensation be paid directly
or indirectly. A central kitchen and dining room and accessory shops and
services catering to the general public can be provided. Not included are
institutions housing persons under legal restraint or requiring medical
attention or care.
   JUNK: Any worn out, cast off, discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction, or has been collected or stored for wreckage, salvage, or
resale or conversion to another use.
   JUNKYARD: Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from the
wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles. See definition of Automotive
Wrecking.
   KENNEL: A place where three (3) or more dogs and/or cats are kept whether as
pets or commercially.
   LANDSCAPING: The exterior placement of ornamental fixtures such as
fountains, ornamental walls, fences, benches, along with vegetative planting of
trees, shrubs, grasses, flowers, etc. This definition shall also include the
designing of the placement of such materials.
   LARGE SCALE WIRELESS FACILITY: A facility, twenty feet (20') or greater in
height from the base to the highest point including attachments, designed and
constructed specifically to support one or more antennas and may include a
monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower, guywire supported tower, and other
similar structures and/or a facility broadcasting in the electromagnetic
spectrum. When calculating the height of a facility, other structures designed
for other uses such as office buildings or water towers shall not be included
in the calculation.
   LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a principal
building for the parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading
merchandise and which has direct access from a public street or alley.
   LOT: Land held as an individual unit of ownership shown on the most recent
plat or other record of ownership.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: An interior lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
   LOT LINE: The lines bounding a lot as described on the deed or other record
of conveyance.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary line of a lot which fronts on a public street
or right of way. On a corner lot, it is that lot line which has the shortest
measurement along the street or right of way.
   LOT, WIDTH OF: The average width measured at right angles to its depth.
   MACHINE SHOP: A place for the repair of mechanical equipment including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, farm equipment and construction equipment
where major repairs, fabrication of parts and fabrication of equipment are
usual items of business.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A detached, single-family dwelling unit with the
following characteristics:
      1.   Designed for long term occupancy, and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub and/or shower bath and kitchen
facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to
outside systems.
      2.   Designed and constructed to be transported after fabrication on its
own wheels, or detachable wheels, sometimes in multiple sections.
      3.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling, often including major appliances and furniture, and ready for
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location of foundation supports, connections to utilities and the like. If the
manufactured home is to be located on a building lot, it is to be placed on a
permanent foundation. Said foundation shall comply with this title. Those
manufactured homes to be located on rented lots within an approved manufactured
home park may be placed on piers or supports.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT: A designated portion of a manufactured home park
designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home and its accessory
buildings or structures for the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
manufactured homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located,
regardless of whether or not a change is made for accommodation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND: Concrete pad on which house rests.
   MASTER PLAN: Any document or portion of any document duly adopted by the
town council which is intended to guide the growth and development of the area.
   MINIWAREHOUSE/SELF-STORAGE UNITS: A building(s) and premises that provide
separate storage areas for individual or business uses. The storage areas are
designed to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal
property. Accessory uses may include living quarters for a resident manager or
security and leasing offices. Use of the storage areas, service and repair
operation, or manufacturing is not considered accessory to the miniwarehouse/
self-storage use.
   MODULAR HOME: A detached single-family dwelling that was not designed nor
constructed or altered to be placed on a chassis and transported or towed to
the placement site on attached or detachable wheels. Said dwelling may arrive
on site in one or more sections, and shall be placed on a "permanent
foundation" as defined in this title. Evidence must be provided that the said
modular complies with the international building code standards and that said
home will be taxed at the same value as a similar sized, conventionally
constructed, on site, single-family residence.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of the ordinance codified in this title and which does not conform
to the regulations of the district or zone in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME: A building or portion thereof used for the housing of and
caring for the ambulatory, aged, or infirm by a professional staff.
   OFF STREET PARKING: Parking facilities for vehicles on other than a public
street or alley.
   OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: A space located off any public right of way which
is at least nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') in size for parking of any
motor vehicle, with adequate maneuvering space, and with access to public
streets or alleys.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A development of a parcel of land providing
a harmonious arrangement of uses, structures, parking areas and open space. It
shall be designed and integrated as one development and shall be governed by
protective covenants and bylaws. It allows for the mixture of like uses and
uses not otherwise permitted within the zoning district; provided, that such
nonpermitted uses service only those residing or working within the planned
unit development. The density of such developments must conform with that
defined for the district in which the development is to locate. All planned
unit developments must be approved by the town council through the conditional
use procedure defined in chapter 11 of this title.
   PRIMARY USE: The principal or predominant use to which a structure, lot, or
piece of property is or may be devoted, and to which all other uses on the
premises are accessory.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: Offices to be occupied by accountants, architects,
dentists, doctors, engineers, lawyers, insurance agents, real estate agents, or
other licensed professions which are of a similar nature.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreation purposes,
and licensed as such.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any area or tract of land rented or held out for
rent for parking or placement of temporary recreational vacation housing.
   RESIDENTIAL: See definition of Dwelling.
   RESTAURANT: A public eating house which does not provide curbside or in-
automobile food service.
   RETAIL SALES: An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly
to the ultimate consumer.
   ROOMING UNIT: A space for human occupancy lacking private bath and/or
kitchen facilities.
   SCHOOL: Elementary, junior or senior high, including public, private or
parochial. An institution of learning which offers instruction in the several
branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools by
the board of education.
   SCREENED: Concealed or cut off from direct visual contact, from neighboring
private property or public rights of way.
   SERVICE: As definition of a type of establishment means an establishment
primarily selling nontangible goods such as expert advice or assistance, or
otherwise supplies the needs of a consumer but produces no tangible goods, or
produces tangible goods that are only ancillary to the service provided.
   SETBACK: The horizontal distance required between any structure and lot
line. This distance to be measured at right angles to the lot line. The setback
line shall be parallel with the lot line.
   SHOPPING CENTER: One or more buildings containing at least three (3)
separate retail businesses planned, developed and managed as a unit, with off
street parking provided on the property.
   SIGNS: Any outdoor advertising having a permanent location on the ground, or
attached, to or painted on a building, including bulletin boards, billboards
and poster boards, or any device designed to inform or attract attention.
   SMALL SCALE WIRELESS FACILITY: A facility, less than twenty feet (20') in
height from the base to the highest point including attachments, designed and
constructed specifically to support one or more antennas and may include a
monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower, guywire supported tower, and other
similar structures and/or a facility broadcasting in the electromagnetic
spectrum. When calculating the height of a facility, other structures designed
for other uses such as office buildings or water towers shall not be included
in the calculation. This definition excludes private, receive only, antennas
such as for the reception of television signals and private amateur operated
short wave two-way radio towers.
   STEALTH OR CAMOUFLAGED: Placement of a telecommunications facility in such a
way that it may not be discerned as being separate from the principal use of a
site. This may be accomplished through visual screening, use of color, or
encasement of the facility within an existing structure such as a steeple. A
stealth installation may also include the construction of a new structure to
contain the facility so long as the new structure complies with the height,
setback, and other requirements of the zoning code or is otherwise exempt from
those requirements.
   STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next
above it.
   STREET: Any thoroughfare or public space which has been dedicated to public
or private use as the principal means of access to properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A combination of materials constructed and erected permanently on
the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on the ground.
   TEMPORARY: Not having or requiring permanent attachment to the ground, or
involving structures which have no required permanent attachment to the ground.
   TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling unit, located on its own lot, which shares one (1) or
more common or abutting walls with each wall having no doors, windows or other
provisions for human passage or visibility with any other dwelling units, each
located on its own lot. A townhouse does not share common floors/ceilings with
other dwelling units. Each of the attached dwelling units must have:
   1.   Independent water and sewer service lines and metering pursuant to the
applicable plumbing code and all other city regulations;
   2.   Individual services for all private utilities; and
   3.   A two (2) hour fire separation wall separating the dwelling unit from
any adjoining dwelling units.
   TOWNHOUSE CLUSTER: A building consisting of three (3) to five (5) dwelling
units, each meeting the definition of a townhouse, placed side-by-side and/or
back-to-back. Townhouse clusters may not exceed five (5) dwelling units.
   TOWNHOUSE LOT: Arrangement under which units share a common wall, and
individuals own their own units and hold separate title to the land beneath the
unit.
   TOWER: A structure greater than ten feet (10') in height designed and
constructed specifically to support one or more antennas and may include a
monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower, guywire supported tower, and other
similar structures. A tower does not include other buildings or structures
designed for other uses such as an office building or water tank.
   USE: The purpose for which land or a building structure thereon is designed,
arranged, intended or maintained; or for which it is, or may be, used or
occupied.
   USE, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Use.
   VARIANCE: The relaxation of the strict application of terms of this title
with respect to mechanical requirements, such as setback requirements, area
requirements, building height, parking and loading space requirements, etc.,
where specific physical conditions unique to the site of the lot would create
an unreasonable burden by making its development of permitted use difficult or
impossible.
   VETERINARY CLINIC: A building or premises for the medical or surgical
treatment of animals or pets, including dogs, cats and livestock. It also
includes veterinary hospitals, which may provide for the boarding of
hospitalized animals, but excluding the boarding of animals not subjected to
medical or surgical treatment.
   WELDING SHOP: A place of business where welding and cutting are the major
means of accomplishing repairs or fabrication of metal items.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment for the sale of goods and
merchandise for resale instead of direct consumption.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with the principal building, unoccupied
or unobstructed by any portion of a structure except as otherwise provided by
this title.
   YARD ENCROACHMENTS: Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed by any part of any structure with the exception of the following:
      1.   Projections: Projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features which do not project more than twelve inches (12") from the
principal building.
      2.   Unenclosed Porch; Uncovered Steps: Open unenclosed porch or
uncovered steps may project into the front yard for a distance not to exceed
ten feet (10').
      3.   Terraces; Uncovered Porches; Platforms; Ornamental Features:
Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features which do not
extend more than three feet (3') above the floor level of the ground story may
project into a required rear yard; provided, these projections be at least five
feet (5') from the property line.
      4.   Allowed In All Yards: Driveways, parking spaces, sidewalks,
uncovered patios and terraces of noncombustible materials and ornamental
objects are allowed in all yards.
   YARD, FRONT: An open space extending across full width of the front of the
lot from the front line of the building proper to the front lot line, and
unoccupied except as otherwise provided by this title.
   YARD, REAR: An open unoccupied space between the rear line of a building and
rear lot line for the full width of the lot and unoccupied except as otherwise
provided by this title.
   YARD, SIDE: An open space extending from the building to a side lot line
running between the front yard and the rear yard and unoccupied except as
otherwise provided by this title.
   ZONE: A section of the jurisdictional zoning area of the town for which the
applied regulations of this title are uniform. Also see definition of district.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: An employee, independent contractor or volunteer,
appointed by the Town Council to administer the provisions of this title. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 290, 8-12-2003; Ord. 07-003, 2-13-2007;
Ord. 07-004, 4-10-2007; Ord. 13-002, 10-10-2013; Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014; Res.
18-001, 6-14-2018; Ord. 20-001, 7-9-2020)
   C.   Definitions Relating To Adult Oriented Businesses:
    ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment that has thirty percent (30%) or more, in
value or floor area, of its stock in trade in books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or of photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio
representations or instruments, adult entertainment merchandise, or devices or
paraphernalia which are distinguished by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities and/or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, cafe or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly habitually or consistently features:
      1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity; or
      2.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, photographic
reproductions or other image producing devices that are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; or
      4.   Persons who engage in nude or partially nude "exotic" or erotic
dancing or performances that are intended for the sexual interests or
titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      1.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas", and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
      2.   Offers a sleeping room for rent more than two (2) times during a
period of time that is less than twenty four (24) hours; or
      3.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than twenty four (24) hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually and consistently
shown that are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult cabaret,
adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude
model studio or sexual encounter center.
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually and consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or seminudity, and/or
live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   ADULT-USE DISPENSARY: A licensed premises from which a person licensed by
the Department of Revenue, (the “Department”) may: (a) obtain marijuana or
marijuana products from a licensed cultivator, manufacturer, dispensary, or
other licensee approved under Title 16, Chapter 12, MCA, and (b) sell marijuana
or marijuana products to registered cardholders, adults that are twenty-one
(21) years of age or older, or both.
   ADULT-USE MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS PROVIDER: A person licensed by the
Department to manufacture and provide marijuana-infused products for consumers.
   CONSUMER: A person twenty-one (21) years of age or older who obtains or
possesses marijuana products for personal use from a licensed dispensary but
not for resale.
   CULTIVATOR: A person licensed by the Department to: plant, cultivate, grow,
harvest and dry marijuana; and package and relabel marijuana products at the
location in a natural or naturally dried form that has not been converted,
concentrated or compounded for sale through a licensed dispensary.
   DIRECTOR: The chief of police and such employee(s) of the police department
as he may designate to perform the duties of the director under title 3,
chapter 10 of this code.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of an adult
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. "Employee"
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on the premises
as a patron or customer.
   ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
      1.   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
      2.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any adult oriented business;
      3.   The addition of any adult oriented business to any other existing
adult oriented business;
      4.   The relocation of any adult oriented business;
      5.   An adult oriented business or premises on which the adult oriented
business is located; or
      6.   An existing business that occasionally offers adult oriented
business activities.
   LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER: A facility as defined in subsection B of this
section.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE: A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy or
musical drama.
   MANUFACTURER: A person licensed by the Department to convert or compound
marijuana into marijuana products, marijuana concentrates, or marijuana
extracts and package, repackage, label, or relabel marijuana products as
allowed under this chapter.
   MARIJUANA: All plant material from the genus Cannabis containing
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or seeds of the genus capable of germination. The
term does not include hemp, including any part of that plant, including the
seeds and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and
salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta- 9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis, or commodities or
products manufactured with hemp, or any other ingredient combined with
marijuana to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or other
products.
   MARIJUANA TRANSPORTER: A person that is licensed to transport marijuana and
marijuana products from one marijuana business to another marijuana business,
or to and from a testing laboratory, and to temporarily store the transported
retail marijuana and retail marijuana products at its licensed premises,
(facility) but is not authorized to sell marijuana or marijuana products to
consumers under any circumstances.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: The location from which a registered
cardholder may obtain marijuana or marijuana products.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who repeatedly or regularly
appears in a state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or
similarly depicted by other persons for consideration.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering; or a breast with less than a fully
opaque covering or any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES: The real property upon which the adult oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the adult oriented business, the grounds, private walkways and
parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee.
   SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      1.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      2.   Activities or physical contact between persons of the opposite sex
and/or persons of the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of
nudity or seminudity.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: 1. The human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if fully and opaquely covered;
      2.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
      1.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness, indecent exposure; indecency with a child, sexual assault;
molestation of a child; incest; endangering the welfare of children, or any
similar sex related offenses to those described above under the criminal or
penal code of this state, or other states or other countries;
      2.   For which:
         a.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         b.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
         c.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period;
      3.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
      1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast, whether covered or uncovered;
      2.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections 1 through 3 of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the
floor areas existed as of the passage date hereof.
   TESTING LABORATORY: A marijuana testing laboratory which provides testing of
representative samples of marijuana and marijuana products and provides
information about the chemical composition and potency of a sample, as well as
the presence of molds, pesticides or other contaminates.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
      1.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      2.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      3.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 295, 11-10-2003; amd. Ord. 23-001, 1-12-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-14-6 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Administrator
10-2-2: Zoning Permit
10-2-3: Schedule Of Fees
10-2-4: Discontinuance Of Violations
10-2-5: Complaint Procedures
10-2-6: Manhattan Master Plan
10-2-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Established: The town council shall appoint a zoning
administrator who shall administer and enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   Duties: It is the intent of this title that the zoning administrator
shall check all zoning permits for compliance with this Title. It is the intent
of this Title that the Building Official shall check all construction and
associated plans and permits.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-2-2: ZONING PERMIT:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Building, Structure: No footprint or height of any building or
structure within the town can be changed and no building or other structure can
be erected without a valid zoning permit issued by the zoning administrator.
      2.   Compliance Required For Issuance: No such zoning permit shall be
issued except in conformity with all of the provisions of this title.
      3.   Change In Use: No use of any building, structure or land shall be
changed for nonresidential purposes until a zoning permit can be obtained.
      4.   Enclosed Area: Only those structures or buildings which have an
enclosed area of more than two hundred (200) square feet are required to obtain
a zoning permit under the building code and ordinances of the town.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Required: No new building shall be constructed or existing building
altered within the town unless the person desiring to construct or alter the
building has made application to the town of Manhattan building official and
zoning administrator for proper permitting per International Code Conference
rules and regulations, the Manhattan Town Code and the building code as adopted
by the state of Montana to construct or alter said building.
      2.   Contents: All applications must show the lot upon which the
construction is to be made, the size, nature and extent of the construction or
alteration, including at a minimum scaled:
         a.   Plans, elevations, and building sections indicating dimensions
and building materials.
         b.   Dimensioned setback from the street and all lot lines.
         c.   Utility connections.
         d.   Parking spaces if required per this title.
   C.   Filing Of Plans: All applications for zoning permits for new
construction shall:
      1.   Be accompanied by plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon.
      2.   Show the legal description of the parcel, the exact sizes and
locations of the lot and of buildings already existing, if any, and the
location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or alterations.
      3.   Include such other information as lawfully may be required by the
zoning administrator or this title, including existing or proposed building and
land.
      4.   Show the number of families, housekeeping units or rental units the
building is designed to accommodate.
      5.   Show conditions existing on the lot.
      6.   Show such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for the enforcement of this title.
      7.   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
clerk/treasurer of the town council, after the building official and zoning
administrator has marked such copy either as approved or disapproved. The
second copy of the plans similarly marked shall be retained by the clerk/
treasurer.
   D.   Issuance; Denial Of Application: If the application is in conformance
with this title and any amendments thereto, the town council shall issue a
permit for the construction or alteration of said building; but if they are not
in conformance with this title, no permit shall be given by the town council
and thereafter, no construction or alteration may be made unless authorized by
the board of adjustment as hereinafter provided for.
   E.   Term: All permits expire within one year after date of issue unless
construction has begun, this includes site improvements, or an extension of the
permit is granted by the zoning administrator.
   F.   Conformity Of Construction And Use: Zoning permits issued on the basis
of plans and applications approved by the zoning administrator authorize only
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and any other use, arrangement or construction at variance with
that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this title, and punishable by
section
10-1-3 of this title.
   G.   Expiration And Cancellation:
      1.   If the work described in any zoning permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, such
permit shall expire and be canceled by the zoning administrator or building
official and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected,
together with notice that further work, as described in the canceled permit,
shall not proceed unless and until a new zoning permit has been obtained.
   H.   Appeals: Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the zoning administrator or building official may present to the
Board of Adjustments an appeal petition specifying the grounds for the appeal.
Such petition shall be presented to the Board of Adjustments within thirty (30)
days after the filing of the zoning administrator or building official.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
10-2-3: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Established: The town council shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, appeals,
variances and other matters pertaining to this title. The schedule of fees
shall be filed in the office of the town council, and may be altered or amended
only by the town council.
   B.   Payment Required: No permit, zone change, or variance shall be issued
unless or until such costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in full,
nor shall any action be taken by the board of adjustment until preliminary
charges and fees have been paid in full.
   C.   Home Occupation Permits: The town council shall establish a schedule of
fees, charges and expenses to process home occupation permit applications. No
permit shall be reviewed or issued unless or until such fee is paid in full.
The amount of the fee shall be set, and amended as necessary, by resolution.
   D.   Exception To Zoning Permit Fees: There shall be no zoning permit fee
assessed for a zoning permit when such permit is reviewed in conjunction with
and as part of a building inspection conducted in accordance with title 12 of
this code.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 298, 8-9-2004; Ord. 09-001, 8-11-
2009; Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-2-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF VIOLATIONS:
If the zoning administrator or other appointed officials shall find that any
provision of this title is being violated, he/she shall notify, in writing, the
person responsible for such violation and order corrective action. He/she shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, structures or buildings; removal
of illegal buildings or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
title to ensure compliance therewith or to prevent its violation. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-2-5: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Right To File: Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is alleged
to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
   B.   Filing: Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall
be filed with the town council.
   C.   Investigation: The town council shall record properly such complaint
and immediately investigate.
   D.   Findings: Upon completion of the investigation, the town council shall
record its findings with the clerk/treasurer of the town council.
   E.   Service On Owner: If a violation has occurred, the town council, upon
recording its findings with the clerk/treasurer of the town council, shall give
instruction to the chief of police to serve the owner of the property with a
copy of the complaint and a copy of the findings of the town council.
   F.   Appearance Before Council: The owner shall then appear in front of the
town council at its next meeting to discuss an acceptable remedy to the
violation.
   G.   Failure To Comply: If the owner does not agree to correct the violation
or fails to correct the violation within the period provided by the town
council, the town attorney may file formal charges and prosecute the owner as
provided in section
10-1-3 of this title.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-2-6: MANHATTAN MASTER PLAN:
An ordinance by the town council that in July 2004, the town of Manhattan
growth policy was adopted and was updated in July of 2012, is hereby adopted in
whole. A copy of the 2012 updated Manhattan growth policy is on file in the
town offices. (Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Established; Purpose; Appointment
10-3-2: Officers; Support Staff; Records
10-3-3: Powers And Duties
10-3-4: Procedure For Appeals, Variances
10-3-4-1: Application; Fee
10-3-4-2: Investigation
10-3-4-3: Hearing; Notice
10-3-4-4: Approval Criteria
10-3-4-5: Required Findings Of The Board Of Adjustments
10-3-4-6: Additional Recommendations
10-3-4-7: Issuance Restrictions
10-3-4-8: Appeal, Time Limitations
10-3-4-9: Effective Date Of Decisions
10-3-1: ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE; APPOINTMENT:
   The Board of Adjustment is established to act on appeal and variance
applications as detailed in this Chapter. The Board shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the Mayor for three (3) year terms (staggering terms),
subject to confirmation by the Town Council. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-3-2: OFFICERS; SUPPORT STAFF; RECORDS:
   A.   Officers: At the first meeting each year, the Board shall appoint one
of its members to serve as chairman and one member to serve as vice chairman.
   B.   Zoning Administration: The Zoning Administrator shall be at the
disposal of the Board to receive and process applications of appeal and
variance and to give advice to the Board.
   C.   Office: The Board’s office shall be that of the Town Hall and all files
of the Board shall be held therein.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The Board shall set its operating rules in accordance with Montana Code
Annotated sections 76-2-321 through 76-2-328, and shall have the following
powers:
   A.   Hear And Decide Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement of the provisions of this Title, or
any amendment thereto.
   B.   Authorize Variances: To authorize variances in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this Title as will not be contrary to the public
interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this Title will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the
spirit of this Title be observed and substantial justice done. The Board may,
after public notice and hearing, approve, conditionally approve or deny any
request to grant variances.
   C.   Reverse Decision Of Administrative Officer: The concurring vote of four
(4) members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of any administrative official, or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
Title, or to effect any variation of this Title.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS, VARIANCES:
10-3-4-1: APPLICATION; FEE:
Written applications for appeals or variances shall be filed in the office of
the Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Title, the uniform filing fee of each application is for the purpose of
defraying expenses incidental to proceedings. No application will be regarded
as having been filed until such fee has been paid. The fee schedule may be
obtained from the office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-3-4-2: INVESTIGATION:
The Board of Adjustment shall cause to be made such investigation of facts
bearing on the application as will provide necessary information to assure that
the action on each such application is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this Title. During time of appeal all construction shall cease and shall not
commence until approved by the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-3-4-3: HEARING; NOTICE:
   A.   Hearing Required: There shall be a hearing for each application of
appeal or variance. The hearing shall be held at the appointed time and place.
Testimony shall be taken by the Board of Adjustment from persons interested in
such application.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Town at least fifteen (15) days and
not more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-3-4-4: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
Before any variance can be granted, the Board of Adjustment shall make findings
of fact setting forth and showing that the following circumstances exist:
   A.   Rezone: In considering all proposed variances to this Title, the Board
shall, before making any finding in a specified case, first determine that the
proposed variance will not amount to a rezone and constitute a change in the
district boundaries shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   B.   Special Conditions And Circumstances: Special conditions and
circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land such as size, shape,
topography or location, not applicable to other lands in the same district and
that literal interpretation of the provisions of this Title would deprive the
property owner of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties similarly
situated in the same district under the terms of this Title.
   C.   Actions Of Applicant: The special conditions and circumstances do not
result from the actions of the applicant. This includes a failure to complete
due diligence in the purchase of any property reviewed for a variance.
   D.   No Special Privilege: Granting of the variance will not confer a
special privilege to subject property that is denied other lands in the same
district.
   E.   Not Detrimental To Public Welfare: The granting of the variance will
not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the
property or improvements in the vicinity and zone in which subject property is
situated.
   F.   Reasonable Use Of Land: The Board of Adjustment shall further make a
finding that the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of
the variance, and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land.
   G.   Harmony With Intent Of Title: The Board of Adjustment shall further
make a finding that the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this Title and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   H.   Profitability: The fact that property may be utilized more profitably
will not be an element of consideration before the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS:
Before any appeals can be granted the Board of Adjustment shall make findings
of fact setting forth and showing that any one of the following circumstances
exist:
   A.   Misinterpretation of this Title: In considering an appeal of a decision
of the zoning administrator or building official the Board of Adjustments shall
find that the zoning administrator or building official made an interpretation
of this title that is inconsistent with the plain reading of this text.
   B.   Error on part of the Building Official or Zoning Administrator: The
Board of Adjustments finds that the building official or zoning administrator
made an error in their decision.
   C.   Incomplete Review: The Board of Adjustments finds that the building
official or zoning administrator decision occurred without properly reviewing
all elements of the decision that was made.
   D.   Injurious to Adjacent Landowners or Applicant: The Board of Adjustment
finds that a decision made by the building official or zoning administrator was
injurious to adjacent landowners or the applicant.
   E.   Public Welfare and Safety: The Board of Adjustments finds that a
decision made by the building official or zoning administrator was
contradictory to the general welfare and safety of the public.
   F.   Harmony with Intent of Title: The Board of Adjustments finds that a
decision made by the building official or zoning administrator was not
harmonious with the intent of this title or any additional titles of the
Manhattan Town Code.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4-6: ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS:
   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards that will ensure that the purpose and intent of this
Title shall not be violated. Violation of such conditions, and safeguards, when
made part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this Title and punishable under Section
10-1-3 of this Title.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4-7: ISSUANCE RESTRICTIONS:
   With respect to uses of land, buildings and other structures, this Title is
declared to be a definition of the public interest by the Town Council, and the
spirit of this Title will not be observed by any variance which permits a use
not generally permitted in the district involved, or any use expressly or by
implication prohibited by terms of this Title in the district. Therefore, under
no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a variance to permit a use
not generally permitted in the district involved, or any use expressly or by
implication prohibited, by the terms of this Title in such district.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4-8: APPEAL, TIME LIMITATIONS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Board of Adjustment, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the Town,
may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified, setting forth that
such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the
illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within thirty (30)
days after the filing of the decision of the office of the Board.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24- 004, 5-9-2024)
10-3-4-9: EFFECTIVE DATE OF DECISIONS:
   The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final except as provided in
Section
10-3-4-7 of this Chapter and if a zoning permit is not obtained for the subject
property within six (6) months from the date of the Board’s decision, the
variance shall be automatically canceled and become null and void.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING MAP AND DISTRICTS 1
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Map Adopted
10-4-2: Interpretation Of Boundaries
10-4-3: District Classifications
10-4-4: Prohibition Of Marijuana Businesses
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 17 of this title.
10-4-1: ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
The town and the one mile jurisdictional area is divided into districts, or
zones, as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory
matter thereon, is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Centerlines: Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately
the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right of way
lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   B.   Lot Lines: Where district boundaries are so indicated that they
approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be
such boundaries.
   C.   Parallel To Centerlines: Where district boundaries are so indicated
that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of highways, such
district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such
distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given,
such dimension shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   D.   Railroad Lines: Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad
line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main
tracks of such railroad line. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-4-3: DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the town and the one mile jurisdictional area is
divided into the following use districts:
AG  Agricultural district
RR  Rural residential district
R-1 Low density residential district
R-3 Medium density residential district
RT  Residential transitional district
CBD Central business district
NHB Neighborhood highway business district
L-1 Light industrial district
P-O Parks and open space district
 
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-4-4: PROHIBITION OF MARIJUANA BUSINESSES:
   A.   As authorized by Title 16, Chapter 12, MCA, and based on the
affirmative vote of the electors of the Town of Manhattan, the following
marijuana businesses are permanently prohibited from opening or operating
within the boundaries of the town:
      1.   Cultivator;
      2.   Manufacturer;
      3.   Medical marijuana dispensary;
      4.   Adult use dispensary;
      5.   Testing laboratory; and
      6.   Marijuana transporter facility.
   B.   Violation of this section is a municipal infraction and shall be
punished as set out in Title 1, Chapter 4 of the Town Code.
(Ord. 23-001, 1-12-2023)
CHAPTER 5
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Conditional Uses
10-5-4: Lot Area
10-5-5: Floor Area
10-5-6: Building Height
10-5-7: Lot Frontage
10-5-8: Yards
10-5-9: Animal Enclosures; Setbacks
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the agricultural district, AG, is to discourage small tract
development in areas of agriculture importance and in areas of environmental
concern. It is intended that through the use of this district, agricultural
pursuits will be encouraged and environmental concerns protected. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
In all the AG districts, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses and buildings, including single- and multi- family dwellings to
house employees working on the farm or ranch.
   Agricultural uses.
   Daycare home (meeting state requirements).
   Home occupations.
Public and private parks.
Sales, on the premises, of products produced thereon.
Single-family dwellings (including modular and manufactured homes).
Veterinary clinics. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-5-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted as conditional uses in the AG district:
Bus barns and bus garages.
Churches or similar places of worship.
Commercial kennels.
Daycare center (meeting state requirements).
Drive-in theaters.
Fishing clubs.
Golf courses.
Group daycare homes (meeting state requirements).
Horse trailers, livestock trailers, and agricultural related trailers.
Hunting clubs.
Private and public schools.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Retail sales of nonmotorized RV type trailers.
Riding academies.
Sales and rental of agricultural equipment. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord.
260, 11-2-1999; 2000 Code; Ord. 266, 8-1-2000; Ord. 293, 10-14-2003)
10-5-4: LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area in this district shall be determined by existing soil
conditions, ground water conditions and other physical limitations for
residential development. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-5-5: FLOOR AREA:
The minimum floor area for a principal single-family residence shall not be
less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of floor area. The
footprint, exclusive of the garage, for a principal single-family residence
shall not be less than nine hundred (900) square feet of floor area. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-5-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height for buildings designed and constructed for human
occupancy shall be twenty four feet (24') 1 . All other agriculture related
structures may exceed this height. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "building height" in subsection 10-1-5B of this title.
10-5-7: LOT FRONTAGE:
There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not less than five hundred seventy
five feet (575'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-5-8: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yards: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Rear Yards: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Side Yards: There shall be side yards having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-5-9: ANIMAL ENCLOSURES; SETBACKS:
Except for pastures, any stable, barn, hutch, pen, shed or other such structure
built to enclose or house animals or fowl shall be not less than fifty feet
(50') from any structure used for human occupancy, and shall be set back not
less than fifty feet (50') from any property line. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Lot Area
10-6A-5: Lot Width
10-6A-6: Floor Area
10-6A-7: Building Height
10-6A-8: Yard Regulations
10-6A-9: Animal Enclosures; Setbacks
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the rural residential district, RR, is to provide for reasonable
single-family development in areas not served by central sewer and water or
areas with physical limitations. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
In all the RR district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses.
Agricultural uses 1 .
Barns and animal shelters.
Bed and breakfast.
Daycare center (meeting state requirements).
Daycare home (meeting state requirements).
Group daycare home (meeting state requirements).
Home occupations.
Keeping of animals and fowl for family food production and the keeping of
horses for private use, together with their dependent young.
Newly constructed single-family dwellings.
Public and private parks. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 14-001, 5-
14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. Subject to chapter 5 of this title.
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted as conditional uses in the RR district:
Churches or similar places of worship.
Golf courses.
Manufactured home parks.
Modular homes.
Private and public schools.
Relocated single-family dwelling units. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-4: LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area in this district shall be determined by existing soil
conditions, groundwater conditions and other physical limitations for
residential development. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-5: LOT WIDTH:
Each lot shall have minimum width of not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-6: FLOOR AREA:
Each single-family dwelling unit shall have a minimum of one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of floor area. The footprint, exclusive of the
garage, for a principal single-family residence shall not be less than nine
hundred (900) square feet of floor area. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height for buildings in this district shall be twenty four
feet (24') 1 . (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "building height" in section
  10-1-5 of this title.
10-6A-8: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Side Yards: There shall be side yards having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6A-9: ANIMAL ENCLOSURES; SETBACKS:
Except for pastures, any stable, barn, hutch, pen, shed or other such structure
built to enclose or house animals or fowl shall be not less than fifty feet
(50') from any structure used for human occupancy, and shall be set back not
less than fifty feet (50') from any property line. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE B. R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Lot Area
10-6B-5: Building Height
10-6B-6: Lot Frontage
10-6B-7: Floor Area
10-6B-8: Yard Restrictions
10-6B-9: Accessory Buildings And Structures
10-6B-10: Yard Encroachments
10-6B-11: Building Information
10-6B-12: Recycled Materials
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The low density residential district, R-1, is established for the purpose of
low density dwelling control and to allow certain public facilities. It is
intended that no use be permitted in this district that will tend to devalue
property for residential purposes or interfere with the health, safety, order
or general welfare of persons residing in the district. Regulations are
intended to control density of population and to provide adequate open space
around buildings and structures in the district to accomplish these purposes.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
In an R-1 district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses.
Daycare home (meeting state requirements).
Home occupations by permission of the town council.
Public parks, playgrounds, recreation areas and community buildings and
facilities owned and operated by a public agency.
Single-family dwellings excluding manufactured homes, trailers, semitrailers or
house trailers.
Temporary structures incidental to construction work, but only to a maximum of
one year. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an R-1 low density residential zone, the following uses may be permitted,
provided they are reviewed and approved as required in chapter 11 of this
title:
Accessory residential units. (See subsection 10-11-9A3 of this title.)
Bed and breakfast.
Churches or similar places of worship.
Daycare center (meeting state requirements).
Eldercare facility.
Golf courses.
Group daycare home (meeting state requirements).
Guesthouse.
Modular homes. (See subsection 10-11-9A2 of this title.)
Residential planned unit developments. (Permitted but reviewed. See chapter 10
of this title.)
Townhouse, two (2) units.
Two-family dwellings, may only be located on corner lots and limited to one per
block. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 06-002, 1-16-2006; Ord. 20-
001, 7-9-2020)
10-6B-4: LOT AREA:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet for a single-family dwelling except for lots that
are in the original plat of Manhattan where a minimum of seven thousand (7,000)
square feet for a single- family dwelling is permitted. For a two-family
dwelling (duplex), there shall be a minimum lot area of twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet. Duplexes may only be located on corner lots. The lot area
covered by all building structures shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%)
of the total lot area. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 06-002, 1-16-2006; Ord.
14-001, 5-14-2014)
   B.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
section for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
10-6B-5: BUILDING HEIGHT 1 :
No building shall exceed twenty four feet (24') in height or more than two (2)
stories in height, except for one or more of the following uses or exceptions:
chimneys, fire towers, tanks, water towers, spires, church steeples, radio and
television towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to
exceed the maximum height limitations if approved by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition found in section 10-1-5 of this title.
10-6B-6: LOT FRONTAGE:
There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not less than seventy five feet (75')
except for lots that are in the original plat of Manhattan where a minimum of
fifty feet (50') is permitted. (Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
10-6B-7: FLOOR AREA:
Each single-family unit shall have a minimum of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet of floor area. The footprint, exclusive of the garage, for
a single-family unit shall not be less than nine hundred (900) square feet of
floor area. Each multi-family living unit shall have a minimum floor area of
nine hundred (900) square feet. The footprint, exclusive of the garage, for
each multi-family unit shall not be less than six hundred (600) square feet of
floor area. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-8: YARD RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). However, in blocks where residential buildings have
been erected on forty percent (40%) or more of the lots, the front yard shall
not be less than the average front yard thus established. Corner lots shall
have a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25') on the frontage with the
narrowest width and fifteen feet (15') on the frontage with the longest width.
Lots abutting on cul-de-sacs shall have a front yard of not less than twenty
five feet (25') to the closest point of the structure.
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20'). Rear yards having a depth of not less than ten feet (10')
may be approved by the town council if the lot has no alley.
   C.   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard having a depth of not less than
eight feet (8'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
By approval of the town council, detached buildings not used for residential
purposes may be approved for abutment on alleys. In case of no alley, accessory
buildings and structures may be approved within ten feet (10') of the property
line. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-10: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any
part of any structure with the exception of the following:
   A.   Projections: Projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features which do not project more than twelve inches (12") from the principal
building.
   B.   Unenclosed Porch; Uncovered Steps: Open unenclosed porch or uncovered
steps may project into the front yard for a distance not to exceed ten feet
(10').
   C.   Terraces, Uncovered Porches, Platforms, Ornamental Features: Terraces,
uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features which do not extend more
than three feet (3') above the floor level of the ground story may project into
a required rear yard provided these projections be at least five feet (5') from
the property line.
   D.   Allowed In All Yards: Driveways, parking spaces, sidewalks, uncovered
patios and terraces of noncombustible materials and ornamental objects are
allowed in all yards. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-11: BUILDING INFORMATION:
Building must be built on site and of new materials. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6B-12: RECYCLED MATERIALS:
Use of recycled materials needs a conditional use. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Lot Area
10-6C-5: Building Height
10-6C-6: Floor Area
10-6C-7: Lot Frontage
10-6C-8: Yard Requirements
10-6C-9: Accessory Buildings And Structures
10-6C-10: Yard Encroachments
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The medium density residential district, R-3, is intended to provide for the
new construction of single and duplex residential structures. It should provide
for a variety of housing types to serve the varied needs of families within the
district. Modular and manufactured homes are permitted within this district on
individual lots, provided they are new, meet current building codes and are
placed on permanent foundations. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 06-002, 1-16-
2006)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
In an R-3 district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged, which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses.
Any use permitted in the R-1 zone.
Bed and breakfast.
Daycare home (meeting state requirements).
Home occupations by permission of the town council.
New modular and manufactured homes on permanent foundations.
Schools and other public buildings.
Two-family dwellings (duplex residential units).
Townhouse cluster (up to five (5) units). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 06-002, 1-16-2006; Ord. 20-001, 7-9-2020)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In an R-3 district, the following uses may be permitted, provided they are
reviewed and approved as required in chapter 11 of this title:
Boarding/lodging houses.
Churches or similar places of worship.
Daycare centers (meeting state requirements).
Eldercare facilities, homes for the aged.
Golf courses.
Group daycare homes (meeting state requirements).
Guesthouse.
Hospitals.
Manufactured home parks.
Multi-family structures containing five (5) or more units.
Residential planned unit developments.
Townhouse cluster (more than five (5) units). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord.
06-002, 1-16-2006; Ord. 20-001, 7-9-2020)
10-6C-4: LOT AREA:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet for a single-family dwelling. For a
two-family dwelling (duplex), there shall be a minimum lot area of eight
thousand five hundred (8,500) square feet. The maximum lot coverage in the R-
3 zoning district shall be forty percent (40%). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord.
06-002, 1-16-2006)
   B.   Lot Distribution: Each block shall have a minimum of ninety percent
(90%) single-family units and a maximum of ten percent (10%) two-family
dwellings (duplexes). (Ord. 06-002, 1-16-2006)
   C.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
section for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
10-6C-5: BUILDING HEIGHT 1 :
No building shall exceed twenty four feet (24') in height or more than two (2)
stories in height except for one or more of the following uses or exceptions:
chimneys, fire towers, tanks, water towers, spires, church steeples, radio and
television towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to
exceed the maximum height limitations if approved by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition found in section 10-1-5 of this title.
10-6C-6: FLOOR AREA:
Each living unit shall have a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet of
floor area. The footprint, exclusive of the garage, for a single-family unit
shall not be less than six hundred (600) square feet of floor area. The
footprint, exclusive of the garage, for each multi-family unit shall not be
less than six hundred (600) square feet of floor area. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6C-7: LOT FRONTAGE:
There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not less than fifty feet (50'). (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998)
10-6C-8: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yards: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than fifteen feet (15'). However, in blocks where residential buildings have
been erected on forty percent (40%) or more of the lots, the front yard shall
not be less than the average front yard thus established. Corner lots shall
have a minimum setback of fifteen feet (15') on the frontage with the narrowest
width, and fifteen feet (15') on the frontage with the longest width. Lots
abutting on cul-de-sacs shall have a front yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25') to the closest point of the structure. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd.
Ord. 06-002, 1-16-2006)
   B.   Rear Yards: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20'). Rear yards having a depth of not less than ten feet (10')
may be approved by the town council if the lot has no alley.
   C.   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard having a depth of not less than
eight feet (8'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
   D.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
section for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
10-6C-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
By approval of the town council, detached buildings not used for residential
purposes may be approved for abutment on alleys. In case of no alley, accessory
buildings and structures may be approved within ten feet (10') of the property
line. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-6C-10: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any
part of any structure with the exception of the following:
   A.   Projections: Projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features which do not project more than twelve inches (12") from the principal
building.
   B.   Unenclosed Porch; Uncovered Steps: Open unenclosed porch or uncovered
steps may project into the front yard for a distance not to exceed ten feet
(10').
   C.   Terraces; Platforms; Ornamental Features: Terraces, uncovered porches,
platforms and ornamental features which do not extend more than three feet (3')
above the floor level of the ground story may project into a required rear yard
provided these projections be at least five feet (5') from the property line.
   D.   Allowed In All Yards: Driveways, parking spaces, sidewalks, uncovered
patios and terraces of noncombustible materials and ornamental objects are
allowed in all yards. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE D. RT RESIDENTIAL TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Purpose
10-6D-2: Permitted Uses
10-6D-3: Conditional Uses
10-6D-4: Lot Area
10-6D-5: Building Height
10-6D-6: Lot Frontage
10-6D-7: Floor Area
10-6D-8: Yard Restrictions
10-6D-9: Accessory Buildings And Structures
10-6D-10: Yard Encroachments
10-6D-11: Signs
10-6D-12: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-6D-13: Hours Of Operation
10-6D-14: Open Storage
10-6D-15: Performance Standards
10-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The residential transitional district, RT, is intended to provide an acceptable
range of land uses and controls for limited office and commercial development
on residential properties, provided that the residential character is
maintained and driveway access is controlled. The permitted uses are limited to
low intensity office and service uses characterized by low traffic generation
and little or no customer contact on the premises. In order to maintain the
residential qualities of the surrounding areas, stringent development and
activity standards are imposed. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the RT district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged, which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than on the uses listed below:
   A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 zone including residential occupancy of a
portion of the office/commercial development permitted in the RT district.
   B.   The following personal service establishments:
      1.   Photographic, art, and musical studios.
      2.   Offices for personal service businesses which perform their services
off the premises.
   C.   The following business service establishments:
      1.   Business and management consulting services and similar consulting
services.
      2.   Telemarketing and telephone message services.
      3.   Computer and data processing services.
      4.   Market research, advertising, and public relations.
      5.   Medical, dental and optical laboratories without individual patient
visitors.
      6.   Real estate appraisal, abstract title research, mortgage brokerages
and other real estate related businesses except sales offices.
      7.   Stenographic services and temporary office worker placement
services.
      8.   Miscellaneous business services which require only incidental client
contact on the premises.
   D.   The following professional office establishments:
      1.   Accounting and bookkeeping offices.
      2.   Engineering and architectural firms.
      3.   Attorney's offices.
      4.   Miscellaneous professional offices which require only incidental
client contact on the premises. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In the RT district the following uses may be permitted, provided they are
reviewed and approved as required in chapter 11 of this title:
   A.   Any conditional use permitted in the R-1 zone except modular homes.
   B.   The following business service establishments:
      1.   Insurance and real estate sales offices.
   C.   The following public, quasi-public and governmental uses:
      1.   Preschools and daycare centers. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-4: LOT AREA:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet except for lots that are in the original plat of
Manhattan where a minimum of seven thousand (7,000) square feet is permitted.
   B.   Percentage Of Lot Coverage: The lot area covered by all buildings and
structures shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total lot area.
   C.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
section for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed twenty four feet (24') in height or more than two (2)
stories in height, except for one or more of the following uses or exceptions:
Chimneys may be erected to exceed the maximum height limitations if approved by
the town council. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-6: LOT FRONTAGE:
There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not less than seventy five feet (75')
except for lots that are in the original plat of Manhattan where a minimum of
fifty feet (50') is permitted. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-7: FLOOR AREA:
No minimum floor area is prescribed except that residential units shall meet
the minimum floor area requirements of the R-1 district. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-
2017)
10-6D-8: YARD RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). However, in blocks where residential buildings have
been erected on forty percent (40%) or more of the lots, the front yard shall
not be less than the average front yard thus established. Corner lots shall
have a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25') on the frontage with the
narrowest width and fifteen feet (15') on the frontage with the longest width.
Lots abutting on cul-de-sacs shall have a front yard of not less than twenty
five feet (25') to the closest point of the structure.
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20'). Rear yards having a depth of not less than ten feet (10')
may be approved by the town council if the lot has no alley.
   C.   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard having a depth of not less than
eight feet (8'). (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
By approval of the town council, detached buildings not used for residential
purposes may be approved for abutment on alleys. In case of no alley, accessory
buildings and structures may be approved within ten feet (10') of the property
line. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-10: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any
part of any structure with the exception of the following:
   A.   Projections: Projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features which do not project more than twelve inches (12") from principal
building.
   B.   Unenclosed Porch, Uncovered Steps: Open unenclosed porch or uncovered
steps may project into the front yard for a distance not to exceed ten feet
(10').
   C.   Terraces, Uncovered Porches, Platforms, And Ornamental Features:
Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features which do not
extend more than three feet (3') above the floor level of the ground story may
project into a required rear yard provided these projections be at least five
feet (5') from the property line.
   D.   Allowed In All Yards: Driveways, parking spaces, sidewalks, uncovered
patios and terraces of noncombustible materials and ornamental objects are
allowed in all yards. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-11: SIGNS:
   A.   Signage in the RT zone shall be in accordance with all elements of
chapter 15, "Sign Regulations", of this title.
   B.   Changeable copy signs are not permitted in RT zones.
   C.   In the RT district a maximum total area of all signs on a lot shall be
eight (8) square feet. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
chapter 13, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this title.
   B.   In no case shall such off street parking be permitted anywhere in front
of the building, whether in the front yard, the interior side yard, the corner
side yard or any buildable area in front of the building.
   C.   All open parking areas must be set back a minimum of five feet (5')
from the rear and side yards and effectively screened by wall, fence or
landscaping within the five foot (5') setback.
   D.   Parking lot lights shall be no more than fifteen feet (15') high and
shall be limited by the following factors:
      1.   An average lighting level of 1.0 foot-candle with a minimum of 0.75
foot-candle.
      2.   A uniformity ratio of not greater than four to one (4:1).
      3.   Lighting shall be provided by cutoff type fixtures located in such a
manner that light will not spill onto adjoining properties.
      4.   All parking lot lighting shall be extinguished no later than thirty
(30) minutes after the close of business. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Hours of public operation for any use shall be restricted to the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-14: OPEN STORAGE:
All nonresidential operations, including the storage of materials and
merchandise, shall be conducted in a fully enclosed building or entirely within
a solid, opaque wall or fence which conceals the operations from visibility for
the adjoining properties. (Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
10-6D-15: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Site Plan Review: A site plan review by the zoning commission and town
council approval is required for any land development or use in an RT zone. Any
building and site development must comply strictly with the approved site plan.
      1.   The site plan shall indicate the locations of proposed and existing
buildings and structures and any proposed new additions to existing structures.
      2.   The site plan shall indicate all areas dedicated to water drainage
and detention including the calculations necessary to demonstrate that one
hundred percent (100%) of a 100-year, 24-hour, water event will be retained on
site.
      3.   The site plan shall indicate landscape buffering to the adjacent
residential areas and such other buffering or features as are necessary or
appropriate to maintain the residential character of the premises and to fit
harmoniously with the character of adjoining and surrounding properties.
      4.   All buffering shall be as close to one hundred percent (100%)
opacity as possible, including during the initial planting stage of such
landscaping.
      5.   The site plan shall indicate where two (2) or more adjacent lots are
developed driveways are to be consolidated.
   B.   Building And Structures Review: All buildings and structures proposed
for construction and located within an RT zoning district shall be reviewed by
the zoning commission and approved by the town council prior to any land
development, commencement of construction, or use.
      1.   All buildings and structures shall be so designed and constructed so
that their exterior appearance is in conformance with the general appearance of
the residential district's architectural character.
      2.   All buildings and structures must be scaled to that which reflects a
residential character with regard to size, roof slope and window placement, so
as to fit harmoniously with the character of adjacent residential areas.
      3.   All exterior building facades shall be of high quality materials
that may include, but are not limited to, brick, natural stone, wood, plaster
and glass.
      4.   The following images are representative of the visual
characteristics commonly found in residential buildings and appropriate for the
residential transitional district. These images are not intended to be
prescriptive but are intended to be illustrative of the general appearance of
residential like buildings intended for the RT district with regard to scale,
size, roof slope and window placement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1648.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1650.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1652.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1654.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1658.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1656.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1662.jpg]
 
(Ord. 17-001, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Prohibited Uses
10-7A-5: Building Height
10-7A-6: Lot Area And Width
10-7A-7: Setbacks
10-7A-8: Lot Coverage
10-7A-9: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7A-10: Sign Regulations
10-7A-11: Landscaping Regulations
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the central business district, CBD, is to provide an adequate
area for the town's principal business, government, service and cultural
activities. Permitted uses in this district are those that are appropriate in a
relatively high density, intensively developed commercial center. The district
should be developed as an attractive, functional and convenient commercial
environment, and provide the mix of activities necessary to maintain the
downtown character. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted:
Accessory uses customary to the permitted uses on a lot.
Any use permitted in the R-3 zone.
Automobile parking lots and garages.
Bars and cocktail lounges.
Bus and other passenger transportation terminals.
Educational establishments other than "schools" as defined in subsection 10-1-
5B of this title.
Financial institutions.
Hotels and motels.
Medical and veterinary clinics.
Meeting and lodge halls.
Museums, libraries, galleries.
Offices, private and public.
Recreation and amusement establishments and facilities.
Repair and maintenance services conducted entirely indoors.
Research and development laboratories and institutions.
Residential uses above the ground floor level or at the rear of a lot.
Restaurants.
Retail sales.
Service establishments.
Telecommunications facilities.
Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
Theaters and auditoriums. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 291, 8-12-2003)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Automobile service stations.
Casinos.
Drive-up windows at permitted use establishments.
Manufacturing.
"Schools" as defined in subsection 10-1-5B of this title.
Wholesale sales. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Manufactured home and travel trailer sales and service.
Salvage yards.
Storage, other than as an accessory use to a permitted use on a lot. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-7A-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
"Building height" as defined in this title shall not exceed thirty six feet
(36'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-6: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No minimum lot area or width is prescribed. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-7: SETBACKS:
No minimum setbacks are required in this district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-8: LOT COVERAGE:
No maximum lot coverage is prescribed in this district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-9: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Nonresidential Uses: No off street parking shall be required for
nonresidential uses in this district.
   B.   Residential Uses: Off street parking for residential uses shall be
provided in accordance with chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   Off Street Loading: Off street loading shall be provided in accordance
with chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7A-10: SIGN REGULATIONS:
All signs must conform with chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998;
amd. 2000 Code)
10-7A-11: LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS:
All required landscaping must conform to the adopted landscaping regulations
for this district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE B. NHB NEIGHBORHOOD HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Prohibited Uses
10-7B-5: Building Height
10-7B-6: Lot Area And Width
10-7B-7: Setbacks
10-7B-8: Lot Coverage
10-7B-9: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7B-10: Sign Regulations
10-7B-11: Landscaping Regulations
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the neighborhood highway business district (NHB), is to
accommodate business uses that require more space than is normally available in
the central business district, or whose operations require convenient highway
access, and which may serve the traveling public as well as residents. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted:
Accessory uses customary to the permitted uses on a lot.
Automobile parking lots and garages.
Automobile service stations.
Bars and cocktail lounges.
Bus and other passenger transportation terminals.
Educational establishments and schools.
Financial institutions.
Greenhouses and nurseries.
Hotels and motels.
Medical and veterinary clinics.
Meeting and lodge halls.
Museums, libraries, galleries.
Offices, private and public.
Recreation and amusement establishments and facilities.
Repair and maintenance services.
Research and development laboratories and institutions.
Residential uses above the ground floor level or at the rear of a lot.
Restaurants.
Retail sales.
Service establishments.
Telecommunications facilities.
Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
Theaters and auditoriums. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 291, 8-12-2003)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Adult oriented businesses.
A.   Classification:
      Adult arcades;
      Adult bookstore.
      Adult cabarets.
      Adult motels.
      Adult motion picture theaters.
      Adult theaters.
      Escort agencies.
      Nude model studios.
      Sexual encounter centers.
B.   Requirements For An Adult Oriented Business Permit:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult oriented
business without first obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to chapter
11 of this title for a neighborhood highway business district as set forth in
this article and an adult oriented business operator's license ("operator's
license") issued by the town pursuant to sections
3-10-1 and
3-10-3 of this code.
      2.   Such conditional use permit is subject to the following:
   a. Obtainment of a valid adult oriented business operator's license issued
by the Manhattan police department;
   b. Any person who operates an adult oriented business and has employees who
work and/or perform services on the premises of the adult oriented business
must at all times keep a current list of all employees that will be provided to
the Manhattan police department as described herein; and
   c. Any person employed with an adult oriented business must ensure their
presence on a list of all employees to be provided to the Manhattan police
department as described herein.
      3.   It shall be a defense to subsections B2b and B2c of this section if
the employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or
maintenance of machinery, equipment or the premises.
      4.   Any person violating a provision of this subsection B for which
another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code.
Casinos.
Manufacturing, other than as an accessory use to a permitted use on a lot.
Miniwarehouse/self-storage units.
Planned unit developments. (See chapter 10 of this title.)
Wholesale sales. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 295, 11-10-2003; Ord. 05-004,
9-13-2005; Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007; Ord. 13-002, 10-10-2013; Ord. 14-001, 5-14-
2014)
10-7B-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Residential uses at the ground floor level abutting a public street.
Salvage yards.
Storage, other than as an accessory use to a permitted use on a lot or
miniwarehouse/self-storage units as a conditionally approved use. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 13-002, 10-10-2013; Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
10-7B-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
"Building height" as defined in this title shall not exceed thirty six feet
(36'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7B-6: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No minimum lot area or width is prescribed. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7B-7: SETBACKS:
   A.   Front: A front yard setback of at least twenty five feet (25') shall be
provided on all public street and highway frontages.
   B.   Side: No minimum side yard setback is prescribed in this district.
   C.   Rear: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') from the rear property line
shall be required. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7B-8: LOT COVERAGE:
No maximum lot coverage is prescribed in this district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7B-9: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13
of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7B-10: SIGN REGULATIONS:
All signs must conform with chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998;
amd. 2000 Code)
10-7B-11: LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Landscape Zone Required: A landscape zone of not less than ten feet
(10') shall be provided along the entire frontage abutting public streets and
highways, other than that frontage utilized for vehicular and pedestrian
ingress and egress.
   B.   Planting: All landscape zones shall be planted in accordance with the
landscape regulations applicable to this district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE C. L-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Purpose
10-7C-2: Permitted Uses
10-7C-3: Conditional Uses
10-7C-4: Prohibited Uses
10-7C-5: Building Height
10-7C-6: Lot Area And Width
10-7C-7: Yards
10-7C-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7C-9: Sign Regulations
10-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the light industrial district, L-1, is to provide for high
quality settings and facilities for the development of a variety of compatible
employment opportunities. These areas should be developed so as to recognize
the impact on surrounding or adjacent development and contribute to the overall
image of the community. Compatibility with adjacent land uses and zoning is
required.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 22-002, 6-9-2022)
10-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
In an L-1 district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged, which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses.
Building contractors establishments.
Building materials sales.
Cabinet shops.
Electric utility facilities.
Enclosed warehousing.
Grain elevators.
Greenhouses and nurseries.
Machine shops and welding shops.
Manufacturing of light consumer goods (i.e., electronic equipment, appliances,
furniture, beverages).
Medical and veterinary clinics.
Miniwarehouse/self-storage units:
   A.   Lot area with width: Two (2) acres with a minimum width of one hundred
fifty feet (150').
   B.   Lot coverage: Minimum aisle width between buildings shall be twenty six
feet (26').
   C.   All paving providing access to the lot and aisles shall be asphalt.
   D.   The storage facilities complex shall be surrounded by a chainlink fence
approximately eight feet (8') in height.
   E.   Outdoor storage of automobiles, boats and recreation vehicles is
permitted if they are within the fenced area. Outdoor exterior storage shall be
limited to ten percent (10%) of the indoor storage area. Parked vehicles shall
not interfere with traffic movement through the complex and shall meet the
minimum setbacks of the district.
   F.   One office and dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use to
provide for a full time caretaker.
Outside storage if accessory to permitted use and if screened from street and
surrounding properties by solid fence or dense plantings at least six feet (6')
high.
Paint shops.
Physical therapy centers.
Professional offices.
Repair and service establishments for light consumer goods (i.e., automobiles,
appliances, furniture).
Research and development laboratories.
Restaurants.
Sign shops.
Signs.
Telecommunications facilities.
Temporary buildings for and during construction, only.
Vehicle and boat sales.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 291, 8-12-2003; Ord. 13-002, 10-10-2013; Ord.
14-001, 5-14-2014; Ord. 22-002, 6-9-2022)
10-7C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In the L-1 district, the following uses may be permitted provided they are
reviewed and approved as required in chapter 11 of this title:
   Caretaker facilities.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 22-002, 6-9-2022)
10-7C-4: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses of land, buildings and structures and industrial processes that are
noxious or injurious by reason of production or emission of dust, smoke or
refuse matter, odor, gas fumes, noise, vibration or substances or conditions.
Before issuing a zoning permit, the town council may request that the board of
adjustment review the proposed use to determine whether the use is noxious or
injurious. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7C-5: BUILDING HEIGHT 1 :
No building shall exceed thirty six feet (36') in height or more than two (2)
stories in height, except for one or more of the following uses or exceptions:
chimneys, fire towers, tanks, water towers, spires, church steeples, radio and
television towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to
exceed the maximum height limitations if approved by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "building height" in subsection 10-1-5B of this title.
10-7C-6: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Lot area for the L-1 district shall not be less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet with a minimum width of fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
10-7C-7: YARDS:
Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
   A.   Front Yard: Front yard, twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
   B.   Rear Yard: Rear yard, ten feet (10') clear area. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998;
amd. Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
   C.   Side Yard: Side yard, five feet (5').
   D.   Lots Facing Or Adjacent To Another District: When a lot is adjacent or
faces upon another district, the yards shall meet the requirements of the
adjoining district, and buildings shall be screened with a decorative fence or
plantings. When a lot abuts another street or alley side or the rear, a yard of
at least fifteen feet (15') shall be provided on the street or alley side with
landscaping similar to that found in the adjoining district. (Ord. 14-001, 5-
14-2014)
10-7C-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-7C-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
All signs must conform with chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998;
amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 8
P-O PARKS AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Conditional Uses
10-8-4: Lot Area
10-8-5: Building Height
10-8-6: Floor Area
10-8-7: Lot Frontage
10-8-8: Yards
10-8-9: Accessory Buildings And Structures
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of the parks and open space district, P-O, is to provide for parks
and play areas as well as public and quasi- public uses. Some may be permitted
in other districts, but for the larger uses will be designated P-O. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
In a P-O district, no building or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged, which is arranged or intended
or designed for other than one of the uses listed below:
Accessory uses.
Museums, cultural facilities and libraries.
Parks, playgrounds, ball fields and publicly owned open space.
Public buildings, i.e., fire and police stations, etc.
Schools (public and quasi-public). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-8-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
In a P-O district, the following uses may be permitted, provided they are
reviewed and approved as required in chapter 11 of this title.
Ambulance service.
Golf courses.
Hospitals and nursing homes. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-8-4: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot area requirements. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-8-5: BUILDING HEIGHT 1 :
No building shall exceed thirty six feet (36') in height or more than two (2)
stories in height, except for one or more of the following uses or exceptions:
chimneys, fire towers, tanks, water towers, spires, church steeples, radio and
television towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to
exceed the maximum height limitations if approved by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "building height" in section 10-1-5 of this title.
10-8-6: FLOOR AREA:
There shall be no minimum floor area requirements. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-8-7: LOT FRONTAGE:
There shall be no minimum lot frontage requirements. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-8-8: YARDS:
All buildings and improvements must observe the minimum setback as required by
the adjoining district. There shall be no minimum setback requirements for
buildings and improvements that do not adjoin another district. (Ord. 253, 12-
1-1998)
10-8-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
By approval of the town council, detached buildings not used for the parks and
open space purposes, may be approved for abutment on alleys only. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 9
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Definitions
10-9-3: Applicability
10-9-4: Permitted Uses
10-9-5: Supplemental Regulations
10-9-6: Permits
10-9-7: Licenses
10-9-8: Design Standards
10-9-9: Approval As Conditional Use
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for manufactured home park
development at appropriate locations and to establish standards for development
in order to integrate manufactured homes into an area without adversely
affecting surrounding properties and to provide safeguards for residents of
manufactured homes. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
Manufactured home parks are permitted as a conditional use in the R-3 medium
density residential district and as part of a planned unit development (PUD).
Manufactured home parks are not permitted in any other district. (Ord. 14-001,
5-14-2014)
10-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, definitions in section
10-1-5 of this title apply, except for the following terms:
DENSITY: The number of manufactured home units per acre.
LOT: The total area reserved within a manufactured home park for the placement
of one manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
RECREATIONAL AREA: An area including open space, playgrounds, buildings and
apparatus designed for recreational activities set aside for the use of the
manufactured home park residents.
SITE: The entire gross area of the manufactured home park. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
10-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall govern all manufactured homes which are moved into any
manufactured home park within the zoning jurisdiction of the town. The
provisions of this chapter shall also apply to all manufactured homes which
have remained unoccupied for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998)
10-9-4: PERMITTED USES:
"Manufactured homes" as defined in section
10-1-5 of this title.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental thereto. No part of any
manufactured home park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such
uses that are required for direct servicing and well being of park residents
and for management and maintenance of the park. Nothing in this chapter shall
be deemed as prohibiting the sale of a manufactured home located on a
manufactured home stand and connected to the pertinent utilities.
Signs as follows:
   A.   One entry and one exit sign at each access drive onto a public right of
way. In no case shall a sign be larger than two (2) square feet of surface
area, nor shall it have flashing lights or moving parts.
   B.   One identification sign on each major street frontage, approved in
conjunction with the final site plan for the manufactured home park. In no case
shall such a sign be larger than forty (40) square feet in surface area, nor
stand higher than the height limitation within the district of the proposed
location of the manufactured home park. Such signs shall have no flashing
lights or moving parts. Such signs shall be no closer to a public right of way
line than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-9-5: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this Chapter shall not be interpreted so as to supersede or
amend any State or Federal regulation pertaining to manufactured home park
development. In cases of conflict between the provisions of applicable
regulations, the more restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000
Code)
10-9-6: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend any
manufactured home park unless the necessary valid permits have been issued by
agencies of the State and Town. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-9-7: LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any manufactured home park
unless said person holds a valid license issued by the Town. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
10-9-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Any person desiring to establish or enlarge a manufactured home park shall meet
or exceed the following design standards:
   A.   Ambient Conditions: The manufactured home park site shall not be
exposed to smoke, dust, noise, odors, or other adverse influences which might
create damage to property or bring harm to occupants of the park.
   B.   Site Size: Minimum size for a manufactured home park shall be five (5)
acres with a minimum of twenty five (25) lots.
   C.   Density: The maximum density of a manufactured home park shall be
regulated by separation requirements, lot area requirements, and recreation
area requirements as set forth in this Title. In no case shall the density of a
manufactured home park exceed the density of the district in which it is
located.
   D.   Site Coverage: Maximum manufactured home lot coverage shall not exceed
thirty three percent (33%). Coverage shall mean any manmade apparatus.
   E.   Lot Size: Minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet
with no less than sixty feet (60') of lot width where both Municipal or
community water and sanitary sewer systems are available. Where community
systems are not available, lot size will be determined by soil and water
conditions and approved by the State Board of Health.
   F.   Exterior Setbacks: All manufactured homes and accessory buildings shall
be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from all property lines except
front property lines and street property lines. Front and street setbacks shall
be the same as the front yard requirements of the district in which the
manufactured home park is to be located.
   G.   Interior Setbacks: Within the manufactured home park, manufactured
homes shall be located a minimum of twenty five feet (25') apart side to side,
a minimum of fifteen feet (15') apart rear to rear, or end to end, or side to
rear, a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from any interior roadway and twenty five
feet (25') from any public roadway. Any accessory structure such as attached
awnings, carports, etc., shall, for the purpose of this Chapter, be considered
a part of the manufactured home.
   H.   Height: Maximum height for any structure within a manufactured home
park shall be that of the district in which the park is to be located.
   I.   Unit Size: The minimum square footage of a manufactured home unit
allowable under this Title shall be eight hundred (800) square feet, with a
minimum width of fourteen feet (14').
   J.   Streets: All manufactured home parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets and throughout the
manufactured home park.
      1.   Exterior Access: All manufactured home parks shall have direct
access to a dedicated collector street.
      2.   Interior Circulation: Streets within the manufactured home park
should be of adequate width to accommodate any contemplated parking and
expected traffic load but, in all cases, shall meet at least the following
minimum requirements:
         a.   Streets with parallel parking on two (2) sides: forty feet (40')
wide, curb face to curb face.
         b.   Streets with parallel parking on one side: thirty two feet (32')
wide, curb face to curb face.
         c.   Streets with no parallel parking: twenty four feet (24') wide,
curb face to curb face.
         d.   All dead-end streets shall be limited to a maximum length of five
hundred feet (500') and shall be provided with a cul-de-sac of at least one
hundred feet (100') in diameter.
         e.   Minimum access width to each manufactured home stand shall be
sixteen feet (16').
   K.   Parking: Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in convenient
locations and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the occupants of the
manufactured home park and their guests. However, in no case shall the number
of off-street parking spaces be less than two (2) spaces per lot, plus an
additional space for each four (4) lots. The minimum size of each parking space
shall be ten feet in width by twenty feet in length (10' x 20').
   L.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet (5')
shall be provided along all exterior streets.
   M.   Recreational Area: A minimum of eleven percent (11%) of the gross site
area shall be reserved for park and recreational development. Such areas shall
be central in location and shall be furnished with trees, grass, benches,
recreational equipment, and other facilities for use by park residents. The
design and furnishings of the recreational area shall be subject to approval by
the Planning Board as part of the zoning application review.
   N.   Perimeter Planting Strip: A planting strip of not less than twenty feet
(20') in width shall be provided along the perimeter of the manufactured home
park. The planting strip shall be developed with a mixture of hardy deciduous
and coniferous plant material, grass or ground cover, and maintained thereafter
in a neat and orderly manner.
   O.   Utilities:
      1.   All utilities, including connections provided to individual lots,
shall meet the requirements of the Town.
      2.   All electric, telephone, gas and other lines within the manufactured
home park shall be underground.
      3.   When exterior television antenna installation is necessary, a master
antenna shall be installed and extended to individual stands by underground
lines. Such master antenna shall be so placed as not to be a nuisance to park
residents or surrounding properties. Cable television, when used, shall have
the cable located underground.
   P.   Trash And Garbage: Facilities for the storage and disposal of trash and
garbage in a sanitary and lawful manner shall be provided in each manufactured
home park.
   Q.   Lighting: Street and yard lights, attached to standards approved by the
Planning Board, shall be provided in sufficient number and intensity to permit
the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night, and shall be located so
as to prevent glare on surrounding properties and public rights of way.
   R.   Fire Protection: The water supply system serving the manufactured home
park shall comply with the rules and regulations of the local fire protection
authority, or the system shall meet the standards for adequate fire protection
established by the National Fire Protection Association, whichever is more
stringent. All fire protection systems are subject to approval by the Town Fire
Chief. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-9-9: APPROVAL AS CONDITIONAL USE:
Approval of a manufactured home park shall be obtained through the conditional
use permit procedure as specified in Chapter 11 of this Title. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Special Conditions
10-10-3: Review And Approval Procedures; Criteria
10-10-4: Duration Of Approval
10-10-5: Review Criteria
10-10-6: Appeals
10-10-7: Responsibility For Impact Mitigation
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
Through the use of the planned unit development (PUD), the Town intends to
promote flexibility and innovation in the development of land and the design of
development projects within the zoning jurisdiction of the Town. The purpose of
this Chapter is to promote the following community objectives:
   A.   To ensure that growth and development is in accordance with the Town's
adopted Master Plan;
   B.   To promote logical development patterns of residential, commercial,
office, industrial and public uses;
   C.   To improve the design, quality and character of new development;
   D.   To ensure that new development will maintain and enhance the identity
and historical development patterns of the Town, and preserve historic
resources where feasible;
   E.   To minimize adverse environmental impacts of new development and to
protect special urban and natural features;
   F.   To protect existing neighborhoods from the harmful encroachment of
incompatible development;
   G.   To ensure adequate provision of public services such as water, sewer,
electricity, open space and public parks and police and fire protection;
   H.   To avoid inappropriate development of lands and to provide adequate
drainage and reduction of flood damage; and
   I.   To protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-10-2: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Land Uses: An applicant may request approval of a planned unit
development having one or more principal uses or structures on a single parcel
of ground or contiguous parcels of ground. Any use or combination of uses may
be allowed in a planned unit development, provided such uses are consistent
with the Town's Master Plan and with the provisions of Section
10-10-1 of this Chapter. It is not intended that this Chapter apply to zone
change requests for single parcels where the proposed use and site plan are
fully consistent with the district regulations of this Title.
   B.   Ownership: The land designated as a planned unit development shall be
either in one ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the
owners of all the property to be included.
   C.   Title Holdings: The approved final plan shall specify the manner of
holding title to areas and facilities of joint use. Normally such areas and
facilities shall be retained in title by the developers of the development or
deeded to an organization composed of all owners in the development.
   D.   Harmonious Arrangement: All planned unit developments shall consist of
a harmonious arrangement of uses, buildings, parking areas, circulation, signs,
service spaces as for snow storage and refuse collection, and open spaces.
   E.   Integrated Unit: All planned unit developments shall be designed as an
integrated unit that constitutes a safe, efficient and convenient urban
environment. The construction of the planned unit development may be divided
into phases.
   F.   Individual Zoning District: Each approved planned unit development
shall be designated as an individual zoning district and numbered consecutively
beginning with PUD-1. Records containing the requirements and conditions of
approval for each planned unit development shall be retained in the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection.
   G.   Compliance With Supplementary Regulations: Unless the supplementary
regulations of this Title are specifically superseded in an approved planned
unit development plan, with the intent of complying with the provisions of this
Section and Section
10-10-1 of this Chapter, all planned unit developments shall comply with the
existing supplementary regulations.
   H.   Cessation Of Use: In such case that the approved uses and physical
features of a planned unit development cease to be in effect, the property
shall revert to the zoning classification in effect prior to approval of the
planned unit development. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-10-3: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES; CRITERIA:
Approval of a planned unit development shall consist of three (3) procedural
steps:
   A.   Concept Plan Review: An applicant shall submit, for informal review by
the Planning Board, the concept plan for the proposed planned unit development.
      1.   Concept Plan Submittal Requirements: The concept plan shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate its compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter. Concept plan review offers the Planning Board an opportunity to
review the applicant's proposal to identify major problems and potential
solutions, and to advise the applicant of such matters prior to the formal
application. It is generally expected that the following information shall be
submitted for concept plan review:
         a.   Data regarding site conditions, land characteristics, available
community facilities and utilities, and other related general information about
adjacent land uses.
         b.   Conceptual drawing showing the proposed location of the
buildings, uses of land and significant features on the site.
         c.   A table showing the site's proposed land use allocations and the
percent of total site area allocated to each.
         d.   Conceptual drawings and elevations of major architectural and
landscaping features.
      2.   Planning Board Recommendations: After review, the Planning Board
shall furnish the applicant with written comments regarding the concept plan
review, including recommendations to assist the applicant in preparing the
preliminary plan.
   B.   Preliminary Plan Review: Upon completion of the concept plan review, an
application for preliminary plan approval may be filed with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
      1.   Preliminary Plan Submittal Requirements:
         a.   The preliminary plan shall include sufficient information to
permit review, by the Planning Board and the Town Council, of the land use
relationships and densities, and the type, size and location of the buildings
and other principal features of the planned unit development. Where applicable,
the following additional information shall be provided:
            (1)   A statement of proposed ownership of public and private open
spaces.
            (2)   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the planned unit development, or stages of the same, can be
expected to begin and be completed.
            (3)   Dimensions and square footages of public and private streets,
parking lots, common open areas, and other features required by this Title.
            (4)   An architectural and landscaping plan showing character and
materials of each feature.
            (5)   A drawing showing significant views and vistas from the
proposed site, and those from adjacent properties that may be blocked or
impaired by the proposed planned unit development.
            (6)   Map and description of designated or potential historic
resources (buildings, structures, sites, or objects) on or adjacent to the
site.
            (7)   Grading and drainage plan indicating the proposed outlet for
storm drainage from the property.
            (8)   Preliminary subdivision plat, if the project requires
platting.
            (9)   The location of proposed vehicular and pedestrian access
points to the proposed development.
            (10)   List of off-site improvements, if any, projected completion
date, and indicator of the party responsible for completion.
            (11)   Additional studies or plans as deemed necessary by the
Planning Board or Town Council for adequate review of the proposed planned unit
development.
         b.   The preliminary plan application shall be prepared to
professional standards such that the required review may be carried out
effectively.
      2.   Preliminary Plan Review And Approval Procedures: The Planning Board
and Town Council shall hold public hearings on the preliminary plan. Notice of
public hearings shall be made in accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title.
      3.   Preliminary Plan Review Criteria: In reviewing applications for
preliminary approval of a planned unit development, the criteria outlined in
Section
10-10-5 of this Chapter shall be applied.
      4.   Planning Board Recommendation: After conducting a public hearing,
the Planning Board shall recommend to the Town Council the approval,
conditional approval, or denial of the preliminary plan. Such recommendation
shall include the findings of the Board to support the recommendation. If no
recommendation is made by the Planning Board, a record of the public hearing
shall be forwarded to the Town Council.
      5.   Preliminary Plan Approval By Town Council: After review by the
Planning Board, the Town Council shall hold a public hearing and may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the proposed planned unit development.
Preliminary plan approval shall not guarantee approval of the final plan but
shall be deemed an approval of the general layout, densities, and character of
the proposed development as a guide to preparation of the final plan.
      6.   Phased Planned Unit Developments: An applicant for a planned unit
development intended to be constructed in phases must submit either a
preliminary plan for all phases or a preliminary plan for the first phase and
development guidelines for all subsequent phases. Subsequent phases shall be
presented for preliminary and final plan review when the applicant is ready to
proceed.
      7.   Joint Preliminary And Final Plan Review And Approval: For good cause
shown and unique circumstances, or for proposals containing only one principal
use, the chairperson of the Planning Board may permit a final plan application
to be concurrent with the preliminary plan application.
   C.   Final Plan Review: Upon approval or conditional approval of a
preliminary plan by the Town Council, an application for final approval may be
submitted to the Planning Board. The final plan must be in compliance with the
approved preliminary plan or development guidelines.
      1.   Final Plan Submittal Requirements: The final plan submittal shall
meet the requirements for preliminary plan submittal under subsection B of this
Section. In addition, the following submittals are required for final plan
review:
         a.   Final site plan showing land use data, lot lines, easements, and
public rights of way.
         b.   Final landscape and open space plan, with indication of
maintenance program and guarantee.
         c.   Final subdivision plat.
         d.   Final utility plans.
      2.   Planning Board Recommendation: The Planning Board shall review the
final plan and shall determine whether the final plan meets the criteria of
subsection C4 of this Section. If the determination is in the affirmative, the
Board shall recommend to the Town Council the approval, approval with
additional conditions, or denial for cause of the final plan of the planned
unit development. Such recommendation shall include the findings of the Board
to support the recommendation.
      3.   Final Plan Approval By Town Council: After review by the Planning
Board, the Town Council may approve, conditionally approve, or deny for cause
the final plan of the proposed planned unit development.
      4.   Final Plan Review Criteria: In order to be approved, the final plan
must meet the following criteria:
         a.   The final plan is in compliance with the approved preliminary
plan.
         b.   All conditions imposed by the Town Council in its preliminary
plan approval have been met.
         c.   The final plan does not change the general use or character of
the development.
         d.   The final plan does not decrease the open space indicated on the
preliminary plan by more than five percent (5%).
      5.   Amendments To Final Plan: Building permits and other development
approvals shall be issued on the basis of the approved final plan and any
conditions of approval. The Town shall not issue permits for improvements that
are not indicated on the approved final plan, except for the following:
         a.   Minor changes.
            (1)   Minor changes to a planned unit development may be approved
in writing by the Town Council. Such changes may be authorized without
additional public hearings, at the discretion of the Town Council. Approval of
minor changes may be delegated to the Town Planner at the discretion of the
Town Council.
            (2)   Minor changes shall not affect the location, placement,
shape, or arrangement of buildings, lots, or blocks; a change of uses; the
allocation of reserved open space; increases in density or intensity of the
project or, in general, the overall design or intent of the project.
         b.   Major Changes: Major changes to a planned unit development shall
be approved, if at all, only by the Town Council and must follow the same
review and public hearing process as required for preliminary plan approval.
Major changes shall be defined as:
            (1)   A change in the architectural or site character of the
development.
            (2)   An increase of greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
number of dwelling units.
            (3)   An increase of greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
gross leasable floor area of buildings.
            (4)   A reduction by greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
open space.
            (5)   A change in the location or placement of buildings.
            (6)   An increase in problems of traffic circulation and public
utilities.
            (7)   Any change in the development that would normally cause the
project to be disqualified under the applicable review criteria of Section
10-10-5 of this Chapter.
   D.   Compliance With Review Criteria: The Town Council shall determine
compliance to the review criteria of Section
10-10-5 of this Chapter based upon the evidence presented during evaluation of
the proposed planned unit development. Should the applicant fail to comply with
any terms, conditions, or limitations contained in the approved documents, the
Town Council may take necessary enforcement measures or other legal action
deemed appropriate by the Town Council. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-10-4: DURATION OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Duration Of Preliminary Plan Approval: Within three (3) years after the
approval of a preliminary plan, the applicant shall file with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer a final plan and request final plan approval for all or part of the
development. Said request must meet the requirements of subsection 10-10-3C of
this Chapter. If no final plan is filed within this time limit, the right to
proceed under the preliminary plan shall expire.
   B.   Duration Of Final Plan Approval: Within two (2) years after the
approval of a final plan, the applicant must undertake and substantially
complete the planned unit development or portion thereof granted final
approval. For the purposes of this Chapter, a development is substantially
complete once all engineering improvements (water, sewer, streets, curbs and
gutters, street lights, and fire hydrants) are installed and completed in
accordance with Town rules and regulations. Failure to substantially complete
the development within the two (2) year period shall cause a forfeiture of the
right to proceed under the final plan and shall require resubmittal of all
materials and reapproval of the same.
   C.   Extension Of Approval: Upon petition by the applicant and for good
cause, the Planning Board may extend the period for complying with the
requirements of subsections A and B of this Section for successive six (6)
month periods. A request for a six (6) month extension of approval must be
submitted, in writing, by the applicant to the Town Clerk/Treasurer at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date. Failure to do so within the
specified time period shall cause forfeiture of the right to extension of
preliminary or final approval. As a condition of approval for an extension of
time, the Town Council may, at its discretion, require the completion of a
subdivision improvements agreement as set forth in Title 11 of this Code. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998)
10-10-5: REVIEW CRITERIA:
All proposed planned unit developments shall be reviewed against the criteria
listed in this Chapter. The applicant shall clearly demonstrate how the planned
unit development specifically addresses each applicable criterion. In
evaluating a planned unit development proposal, the Planning Board or Town
Council may: a) determine that certain criteria are not applicable to a
particular proposal and therefore do not apply to that proposal, and b)
establish other reasonable review criteria and design standards, guidelines and
policies for the purpose of implementing and interpreting the provisions of
this Chapter.
   A.   Assure Accordance With Town Plans And Policies: The proposed
development must be in accordance with the Town's Master Plan and other adopted
plans and policies of the Town, including the purpose and application of
planned unit developments as set forth in Sections
10-10-1 and
10-10-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Mitigate Effects On Site And Surrounding Properties: The proposed
development should include adequate measures to mitigate adverse environmental
effects, including noise and glare, on the site and on surrounding properties.
If the project includes dwelling units or is adjacent to a residential zoning
district, architectural and landscape design features should be incorporated to
mitigate the impacts of conflicting land uses.
   C.   Mitigate Effects On Existing And Anticipated Traffic And Parking: The
proposed development should include adequate measures to integrate the project
into the traffic circulation plan of the Town and to mitigate the adverse
effects of generated traffic and parking on surrounding properties. Where
feasible, it should incorporate and support nonautomobile transportation modes,
such as pedestrian and bicycle paths.
   D.   Conform To Engineering Standards: The proposed development should
comply with all Town engineering standards and specifications, including those
for water supply, sanitary sewers, utilities and streets, and pedestrian and
vehicular ingress and egress, including accessibility for persons with
disabilities.
   E.   Provide Appropriate Landscaping And Open Space: The proposed site
design should preserve agricultural land where possible, and should create
usable open space for recreational, relaxation or other appropriate uses by
residents and employees, and by the public where appropriate. Existing natural
vegetation in unbuilt areas should be preserved or suitably replaced if
disturbed, in harmony with the existing character of the Town.
   F.   Harmonize With Town's Architectural Character: The architectural
character of buildings on the site should be harmonious with the architectural
character and traditions of the Town.
   G.   Preserve Historic Resources: If the site includes any designated or
potentially significant historic buildings, structures, sites, or objects,
measures should be taken to preserve them and incorporate them into the
development, where such measures will not cause undue hardship.
   H.   Respect Historical Identity: The proposed development should be
harmonious with and integrated into the historical identity of the Town, as in
building orientation, street and alley grid, sidewalk patterns and other
features of the Town's public spaces.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-10-6: APPEALS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Town Council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
Board.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-10-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPACT MITIGATION:
   A.   Simultaneous Development: When two (2) adjacent parcels are developed
simultaneously, the responsibility for mitigating conflicts is upon the more
intense use.
   B.   First To Develop: When a use is the first to develop on two (2)
adjacent vacant parcels, the first use shall provide the necessary buffer to
any reasonable future use as determined by the Town Council.
   C.   Existing Development: When a development is proposed adjacent to an
existing developed parcel, the responsibility for mitigating conflicts with and
adverse impacts on the developed parcel is upon the proposed use.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 11
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Intent
10-11-2: Approval Criteria
10-11-3: Preapplication Meeting
10-11-4: Application
10-11-5: Notice Of Hearing
10-11-6: Planning Board Review
10-11-7: Council Review
10-11-8: Decision On Permit Issuance; Effect
10-11-9: Conditional Uses Designated For Individual Zoning Districts
10-11-10: Time Limit For Use
10-11-11: Cancellation By Permit Holder
10-11-12: Appeals
10-11-13: Revocation
10-11-1: INTENT:
   The intent of conditional use permits is to provide for specific uses, other
than those specifically permitted in each district, which may be appropriate in
the district under certain safeguards or conditions. No structure or land may
be used for any purpose in any district where such use is not a permitted use,
unless such use is listed as a conditional use to section
10-11-2 of this chapter and approval for that use is obtained through the
proper procedure as outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-2: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
The town council may approve the conditional use permits after considering
facts presented on the application and it is concluded that:
   A.   The proposed use meets all submittal requirements as contained in this
chapter.
   B.   The proposed use will not, particularly because of conditions imposed,
be detrimental to the public health, safety, or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements
in the vicinity.
   C.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and standards
specified in this title for such use.
   D.   The granting of the conditional use permit will be in general
compliance with the Manhattan area master plan and the requirements set forth
in this title.
   E.   The proposed use conforms to the standards of this title including, but
not limited to, density, lot coverage, yards and height limitations as set
forth in this title, unless otherwise provided for in this code.
   F.   The proposed use has been duly noticed, a public hearing has been held
in accordance with section
10-11-5 of this chapter, and the public has been given sufficient opportunity
to be heard. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-3: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
Prior to making formal application, the applicant shall meet with the planning
board to discuss the proposed application. The planning board shall advise the
applicant as to specific concerns relating to the site and may request any
additional information they deem appropriate to assist in making their
recommendation to the town council. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
At the written request of the applicant the requirement for a preapplication
meeting may, at the discretion of the town planner, be waived. (Ord. 14-001, 5-
14-2014)
10-11-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Submittal Requirements: Every application for a conditional use permit
is evaluated in terms of its compliance with the criteria found in section
10-11-2 of this chapter and the following application requirements:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   Name of project/development.
         b.   Location of project/development by street address.
         c.   Location map, including area within one-half (1/2) mile of site.
         d.   Name and mailing address of developer and owner.
         e.   Name and mailing address of engineer/architect, landscape
architect and/or planner.
         f.   Date of plan preparation and changes.
         g.   North point indicator.
         h.   Suggested scale of one inch to twenty feet (1" = 20'), but not
less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         i.   Zoning classification within two hundred feet (200').
      2.   Site Plan Information:
         a.   Boundary line of property with dimensions.
         b.   Location, identification and dimension of the following existing
and proposed data, to a distance of one hundred feet (100') outside site plan
boundary unless otherwise stated:
            (1)   Topographic contours at a minimum interval of two feet (2'),
or as determined by the zoning administrator;
            (2)   Adjacent streets and street rights of way to a distance of
one hundred fifty feet (150'), except for sites adjacent to major arterial
streets where the distances shall be two hundred feet (200');
            (3)   On site streets and rights of way;
            (4)   Ingress and egress points;
            (5)   Traffic flow on site;
            (6)   Traffic flow off site;
            (7)   Utilities and utility rights of way or easements for:
electric, natural gas, telephone, cable TV, water and sewer (sanitary, treated
effluent and storm);
            (8)   Buildings and structures;
            (9)   Parking facilities, including bicycle racks;
            (10)   Water bodies, and wetlands;
            (11)   Surface water holding ponds, streams and irrigation ditches;
            (12)   Grading and drainage plan;
            (13)   Significant rock outcroppings;
            (14)   Sidewalks, walkways, driveways, loading areas and docks,
bikeways;
            (15)   Provision for handicapped accessibility, including, but not
limited to, wheelchair ramps, parking spaces, and handrails, and curb cuts;
            (16)   Fences and walls;
            (17)   Exterior signs;
            (18)   Exterior refuse collection areas;
            (19)   Exterior lighting;
            (20)   Landscaping, detailed plan.
         c.   Number of employee and nonemployee parking spaces, existing and
proposed, and total square footage of each.
         d.   Site statistics including site square footage, nonresidential
building square footage, percent of site coverage (building and parking), net
dwelling unit density, percent of park or open space.
         e.   A reproducible copy of the site plan with appropriate signatures
shall be submitted upon approval.
      3.   Building Information (On Site):
         a.   Elevation: Building elevation of all exterior walls of the
building(s) or structure(s).
         b.   Materials To Be Used: The applicant is encouraged to consider the
effect of color in creating a design character that is appropriate for and
compatible with the area.
         c.   Height Above Mean Sea Level: Height above mean sea level of the
elevation of the lowest floor and location of lot outfall when the structure is
proposed to be located in a floodway or floodplain area.
      4.   Permits: A listing of all required and applicable permits and status
of applications.
   B.   Filing Of Application; Fee: After the applicant has met with the
planning board, all applications for conditional uses, including all required
supportive information, shall be filed with the clerk/treasurer of the town
council. Applications shall be accompanied with appropriate filing fee. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-5: NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Required: Upon receipt of a conditional use application, the zoning
administrator will give notice of the public hearing to be held before the town
council.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice will further specify the date, time and
place of the public hearing. It shall specify the name and address of
applicant, the name and address of the owner of record of the property, the
street address or its location by approximate distances from the nearest major
street or road intersections so that the property can be easily identified, and
a brief statement of the nature of the hearing.
   C.   Publication: The notice will be published at least once in the official
newspaper of the town, not more than thirty (30) days or less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the scheduled public hearings.
   D.   Written Notice: The clerk/treasurer of the town council will send
letters to all property owners within a one block radius. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-6: PLANNING BOARD REVIEW:
Upon reviewing the application at a regularly scheduled meeting, the planning
board shall recommend to the town council the granting, modification, or denial
of the conditional use permit. The decision shall contain a finding of facts
showing where in the proposed conditional use fulfilled or failed to fulfill
the requirements as set forth in section
10-11-2 of this chapter. A copy of their recommendation shall be filed with the
clerk/treasurer of the town council and a copy mailed to the applicant. (Ord.
253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-7: COUNCIL REVIEW:
The town council shall consider the conditional use permit on the date, time
and place set for the public hearing, or on the date to which such hearing may
be continued from time and place set for the public hearing before the town
council shall have been specified. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-8: DECISION ON PERMIT ISSUANCE; EFFECT:
   A.   Council Decision: Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the town
council may grant, modify, or deny the conditional use permit. The decision of
the town council shall contain a finding of facts showing wherein the
conditional use fulfilled or failed to fulfill the requirements as set forth in
section
10-11-2 of this chapter. A copy of the decision shall be filed with the clerk/
treasurer of the town council and a copy mailed to the applicant.
   B.   Conditions Of Approval: In granting a conditional use permit, the town
council may impose such conditions as it deems necessary and desirable to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Verification: The conditional use permit, when approved by the town
council, shall be verified, signed and issued by the zoning administrator. The
applicant, upon receiving the conditional use permit (includes final site
conditions and approved final site plan), may then obtain a zoning permit from
the zoning administrator. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-9: CONDITIONAL USES DESIGNATED FOR INDIVIDUAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Special Requirements:
      1.   Casinos Prohibited: Casinos shall be prohibited within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of and on the same street as a building used exclusively as a
church, or school. Conformance with this provision shall be determined as set
out in 42.12.129 ARM with the distance measured at two hundred fifty feet
(250').
      2.   Permitted But Reviewed: Modular homes (see section
10-1-5 and chapter 6, article C of this title) shall comply with all of the
following standards:
         a.   Roof Pitch: Roof pitch of all roofs shall be not less than four
feet (4') of rise for each twelve feet (12') of horizontal run; i.e., a full
four-twelfths (4/12) pitch.
         b.   Eaves: All eaves shall extend not less than twelve inches (12")
beyond the exterior wall plan on all sides.
         c.   Exterior Walls: Exterior walls shall be of horizontal lap siding.
Variations to this standard shall be subject to specific review and approval as
part of the conditional use permit procedure.
         d.   Roofs: Roofs shall be covered with shingles. Variations to this
standard shall be subject to specific review and approval as part of the
conditional use permit procedure.
         e.   Minimum Width: Minimum width of the modular home shall be twenty
four feet (24').
         f.   Foundation: The modular home shall be placed on a permanent
foundation made of concrete or concrete block that rests on concrete or
concrete block footings embedded into the ground to a depth of not less than
four feet (4') or below frost line, whichever is greater.
         g.   Common Ownership: The modular home and the land it rests on shall
be in common ownership. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
      3.   Accessory Residential Units:
         a.   Accessory residential units are permitted but reviewed in new R-
1 zoning districts and in all residential planned unit developments. Specific
lots must be identified and designated as approved for accessory residential
use. A maximum of ten percent (10%) of the lots in any subdivision may be
designated as approved for accessory residential use. The minimum net floor
area of an accessory residential unit shall be four hundred (400) square feet
and the maximum net floor area shall be six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
Those lots designated for accessory residential use allow home occupations in
the accessory residential unit as a permitted use.
         b.   Accessory residential units are a conditional use in existing R-
1 districts and subject to all of the procedures and criteria in this chapter.
The minimum net floor area of an accessory residential unit shall be four
hundred (400) square feet and the maximum net floor area shall be six hundred
fifty (650) square feet.
         c.   Either the principal residence or the accessory residential unit
must be occupied by the property owner of record.
         d.   An impact fee will be assessed for accessory residential units.
      4.   Miniwarehouse/Self-Storage Units:
         a.   Lot area and width for miniwarehouse/self-storage facilities: Two
(2) acres with a minimum width of one hundred fifty feet (150').
         b.   Lot coverage: Minimum aisle width between buildings shall be
twenty six feet (26').
         c.   All paving providing access to the lot and aisles shall be
asphalt.
         d.   The storage facilities complex shall be surrounded by approved
fencing to a height of at least eight feet (8').
         e.   Outdoor storage of automobiles, boats and recreation vehicles is
permitted if they are within the fenced area. Outdoor exterior storage shall be
limited to ten percent (10%) of the indoor storage area. Parked vehicles shall
not interfere with traffic movement through the complex and shall meet the
minimum setbacks of the district.
         f.   External lighting shall minimize night sky pollution and all
lighting shall be directed within the fenced area of the miniwarehouse/self-
storage facility such that there is no light spillage onto adjacent properties.
         g.   One office and dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use to
provide for a full time caretaker
   B.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
section for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code.
(Ord. 06-004, 1-16-2006; amd. Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007; Ord. 07-003, 2-13-2007;
Ord. 13-002, 10-10-2013; Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014; Ord. 22-001, 4-14-2022; Ord.
24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-11-10: TIME LIMIT FOR USE:
   A.   Time Limitations: Any approved conditional use permit shall be
conditioned upon the privileges granted being utilized as follows: (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
      1.   Within three (3) months after the town council has approved or
conditionally approved the conditional use permit application, the applicant
shall have submitted to the zoning administrator a verified and approved final
site plan and conditional use permit from the town council. (Ord. 14-001, 5-14-
2014)
      2.   Within twelve (12) months after approval of the final site plan and
issuance of the conditional use permit, the applicant shall have completed the
project per the information found on the approved final site plan and
conditions attached thereto.
   B.   Failure To Utilize: Failure to utilize the conditional use permit
privileges within either the three (3) month or the twelve (12) month time
periods noted above will automatically void the same. The property covered by
an approved conditional use permit shall not be used for any purpose other than
that authorized. If said permit is to be modified, said modifications shall be
reviewed and approved by the town council. The town council reserves the right
to send the request for modification back to the planning board for their
review and recommendations. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-11: CANCELLATION BY PERMIT HOLDER:
Cancellation of a conditional use permit may be effected by the owner of the
property covered by the permit by means of a written communication directed to
the town council. The permit becomes void upon receipt of the communication in
the office of the clerk/treasurer of the town council. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-11-12: APPEALS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Town Council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
Board.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-11-13: REVOCATION:
   A.   Violation; False Information: Violations of any of the conditions or
contents of a conditional use permit approval may subject the conditional use
permit to review and possible revocation by the town council. Approval granted
on the basis of false information shall be held invalid.
   B.   Initiation Of Revocation Process: In the event a conditional use permit
has been violated, a revocation of such permit may be initiated by the zoning
administrator or the town council. Any proposition to revoke a conditional use
permit on the grounds that the terms of the permit have been violated shall be
referred to the town council.
   C.   Hearing: The town council shall offer the property owner and any
interested party an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting, duly
advertised in accordance with section
10-11-5 of this chapter, at which time it shall consider a proposition for
revocation of a conditional use permit.
   D.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of public hearing shall be published at least
once in the official newspaper of the town having general circulation within
the area of zoning jurisdiction of the town, not more than thirty (30) days or
less than fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
   E.   Decision Of Council: Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the town
council may revoke the conditional use permit. The decision of the town council
shall contain a finding of facts showing wherein the applicant failed to
fulfill the original requirements or conditions for use. A copy of the decision
shall be filed with the clerk/treasurer of the town council and a copy shall be
mailed to applicant.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 12
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Fences And Hedges
10-12-2: Basements
10-12-3: Sewer And Water Connections
10-12-4: Access To Street
10-12-5: Nonresidential Outside Storage
10-12-6: Transition Area
10-12-7: Annexation Of Additional Territory
10-12-8: General Setback Provisions
10-12-9: Telecommunications Facilities
10-12-10: Outdoor Lighting Standards
10-12-11: Appeals
10-12-1: FENCES AND HEDGES:
No fence exceeding three feet six inches (3'6") in height shall be allowed in
residential districts, so as to unduly or unreasonably obstruct the visual
perception of potential hazards as related to motor vehicle, bicycle and
pedestrian traffic for a distance of two hundred feet (200') on the
intersecting roadway, except in the following instances: (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
   A.   Interior Lots: On interior lots a fence not exceeding six feet (6') in
height may be constructed along the property line on the interior side and rear
yard; provided, that no fence exceeding three feet six inches (3'6") in height
shall be constructed within fifteen feet (15') from any property line.
   B.   Corner Lots: On corner lots a fence not exceeding six feet (6') in
height may be constructed along the interior side and rear yard; provided, that
no fence exceeding three feet six inches (3'6") in height shall be constructed
within fifteen feet (15') from the property corner at the street and alley.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 14-001, 5-14-2014)
   C.   Hedges, Landscaping Or Structures: The same regulations will apply to
hedges, landscaping, or structures regarding height and location.
   D.   Electric Or Barbed Wire Fences Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to erect or maintain any electrical fence, or any fence constructed in
whole or in part of barbed wire within the town limits.
   E.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the provisions of this section may be granted
by the town council through the conditional use permit process set forth in
chapter 11 of this title. However, in no case shall a fence exceeding six feet
(6') in height be permitted in residential districts. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-12-2: BASEMENTS:
No zoning permit shall be issued for a basement residence alone. The zoning
permit shall be issued for a complete building in accordance with the
regulations for the respective district or zone. The basement structure shall
be enclosed within one year after the issuance of the permit. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
10-12-3: SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS:
   Connection to the town’s sewer and water system is required for new
buildings where the property on which the building is to be located within the
town unless the property is in a subdivision that is exempted in Section
9-3-11.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-12-4: ACCESS TO STREET:
Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot abutting a public
street, or with access to an approved private street, approval granted by the
town council only. All structures shall be so located on lots as to provide
safe convenient access for servicing fire protection and required off street
parking. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-12-5: NONRESIDENTIAL OUTSIDE STORAGE:
All salvage dealers or other persons accumulating, depositing or storing
salvage material within the jurisdictional area when the accumulating,
depositing or storing thereof shall be without a building or not within a
building, either now stored, deposited or accumulated or hereafter so
deposited, stored or accumulated, shall fence surrounding salvage materials
with a solid fence at least eight feet (8') high, sufficient to enclose the
salvaged materials from public view from outside the enclosure. (Ord. 253, 12-
1-1998)
10-12-6: TRANSITION AREA:
   A.   Garage Entrances: No commercial garage for more than one motor vehicle
shall have an entrance or exit for motor vehicles within fifty feet (50') of
the residential district.
   B.   Side And Rear Yard Transition: Where a lot in a commercial or
industrial district abuts a lot in a residential district, there shall be
provided along such abutting lines, a yard equal in width or depth to that
required in a residential district.
   C.   Front Yard Transition: Where the frontage on one side of a street
between two (2) intersecting streets is zoned partly as a residential district
and partly as a business or industrial district, the front yard depth in the
business or industrial district shall be equal to the required front yard depth
in the residential district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-12-7: ANNEXATION OF ADDITIONAL TERRITORY:
Whenever the territory is added to the town limits, plans for such annexation
shall be presented to the planning board for land use and zoning
recommendations. The town council, in the ordinance, shall provide for its
addition to the town and designate the district or districts in which it is
included. The territory annexed shall be governed by the provisions of the
section governing the district to which it is attached. In the absence of the
adoption of such resolution, such territory when annexed shall automatically
become a part of the R-1 low density residential district. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
10-12-8: GENERAL SETBACK PROVISIONS:
   A.   Reduction Of Side Yards: Where there is an existing building having
front, side or rear yard smaller than is permitted for new building under this
title, such front, side or rear yard may not be further reduced; nor, where
there is an existing building having front, side or rear yard larger than or
the same as that required by this title, may such front, side or rear yard be
reduced below what is required by this title for a new building of like
character. Where the erection of any proposed new building or addition thereto
will have the effect of reducing any front, side or rear yard of an existing
building below what is required by this title for a new building, permit for
such new building shall be denied, unless a variance is granted by the Board of
Adjustment.
   B.   Yard Encroachments: Every part of a required yard or court shall be
open and unobstructed by any building or structure, from its lowest point
upward, except as follows: awnings, steps, belt course, chimneys, cornices and
eaves may project not more than three feet (3') over or into any required yard
or court.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-12-9: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Authority And Findings:
      1.   The town of Manhattan has the authority to regulate the placement,
construction, and modification of wireless telecommunications service
facilities.
      2.   The town of Manhattan finds that:
         a.   It is necessary to determine the appropriate location for
placement of towers and antennas to serve local residents and businesses; and
         b.   The town desires to promote collocation and use of alternative
tower structures to minimize the need to construct new towers; and
         c.   Consistent with applicable law, the town desires to minimize the
adverse visual impacts of towers and antennas through careful siting, design,
landscape screening, and innovative camouflage screening; and
         d.   The town seeks to ensure against potential health and safety
hazards to citizens and prevent damage to adjacent properties; and
         e.   The town intends to exercise, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, its authority with respect to the regulation of the placement,
construction, and modification of wireless telecommunications service
facilities.
         f.   The town recognizes the need to respond to the policies in the
telecommunications act of 1996 and has constructed its regulations in a fashion
that does not unreasonably discriminate between providers of functionally
equivalent personal wireless service in the town.
         g.   The federal communication commission exercises certain sole
authority in the licensing and other regulation of wireless services which the
town of Manhattan recognizes.
   B.   Facility Specifications And Requirements:
      1.   The proposed telecommunications facility shall meet all of the
requirements of the district in which it is located.
         a.   General Guidelines:
            (1)   Large scale wireless facilities are exempt from the height
limitations of the district in which they are located.
            (2)   A detailed explanation of how the large scale wireless
facility will be maintained and how the maintenance and operations of the large
scale wireless facility will be transferred to a third party should the
applicant no longer retain ownership is required. Unless otherwise approved by
the town the responsibility of maintenance and operations shall transfer to the
owner of the underlying property.
            (3)   An explanation of how the applicant will provide a financial
security for the removal of the large scale wireless facility in the event that
it no longer serves telecommunications carriers is required. The financial
guarantee shall be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated costs of
the facility removal and must be acceptable to the town. The financial
guarantee shall be reviewed every three (3) years by the town to ensure the
adequacy of the one hundred fifty percent (150%) guarantee.
            (4)   Large scale wireless facilities that are not utilized for
telecommunications for a period of ninety (90) days shall be determined to no
longer serve telecommunications carriers and must be disassembled and removed
from the site.
            (5)   Small scale wireless facilities may not exceed the
established maximum building height for the district in which they are located.
            (6)   Both large scale and small scale wireless facilities located
in the NHB district must be stealth installations.
            (7)   A small scale wireless facility proposed for the sole and
exclusive, on site use of a business, and found to be in compliance with the
maximum building height limitations of the zoning district, with all setback
and other zoning requirements, and which has four (4) or less square feet of
total antenna surface area, may be permitted as an accessory use in any
nonresidential district.
            (8)   Any antennas or antenna support structures that are not
utilized for wireless services for a continuous period of ninety (90) days
shall be considered abandoned. All facilities shall be removed within three (3)
months or the cessation of operations (abandonment). If a facility is not
removed within three (3) months the town shall remove the facility at the land
owner's expense. Where multiple users share a facility the nonoperational
antennas and associated ground mounted equipment shall be removed but any
common equipment may be retained until all users have terminated the
utilization of the site.
         b.   Safety Standards:
            (1)   A statement of whether the proposed facility is exempt or
nonexempt from environmental review under the rules of the FCC is required. If
the facility is claimed to be exempt, a detailed and specific citation to the
rules of the FCC indicating the section which details the relevant exemption
provisions shall be included. If the facility is not exempt from environmental
review a copy of the environmental review and the approval from the FCC for the
site shall be provided to the town of Manhattan.
            (2)   The structural design for all antenna support structures ten
feet (10') or greater in height or which have attached more than four (4)
square feet of total antenna area shall be certified as structurally safe by a
professional structural engineer licensed to practice in the state of Montana.
            (3)   All small scale or large scale wireless facilities shall meet
or exceed current standards and regulations of the FCC, FAA and any other
agency with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such standards
are changed the owner shall modify the installation to comply with the new
standards within six (6) months of the effective date of the new standards or
regulations unless a difference implementation schedule is required by the
issuing agency.
            (4)   Towers with a base located at grade shall be enclosed within
a secure fence not less than six feet (6') in height or the tower itself shall
be equipped with an appropriate anticlimbing device.
         c.   Aesthetics:
            (1)   New towers greater than forty feet (40') in height shall
accommodate at least three (3) service providers with accompanying area for
equipment and access. Where multiple providers will be utilizing the same area
and/or support structure, consideration should be given to the provision of a
single building or other similar integration of equipment housing. A new tower
may meet this requirement by correctly sizing the foundation and other
structural elements to allow future additions to the structure to accommodate
additional users rather than immediately constructing the entire tower.
            (2)   An applicant for a new tower in excess of forty feet (40') in
height shall demonstrate that there are no available openings in existing
facilities which are technically and financially feasible and that a new
structure is necessary. A site shall be deemed financially feasible if the cost
is equal to or less than the cost of constructing a new tower.
            (3)   All installations shall be as visually unobtrusive as is
feasible. FAA and FCC regulations may require visual marking and lighting and
may not be overridden by local regulation in this regard. Unless otherwise
required by the FAA or FCC towers shall be of a galvanized finish or be painted
in neutral colors. Facilities and equipment mounted on existing structures
shall be visually incorporated into the structure or background by the use of
architectural elements, color, screening, or other methods.
            (4)   No lighting or signage except a single four (4) square foot
business identification sign is allowed unless such lighting or signage is
require by the FAA or FCC.
         d.   Special Setbacks To Avoid Collapse Damage: Special setbacks for
towers shall be provided and/or a design for internal structural collapse to
avoid damage or injury to adjoining property or users shall be provided.
            (1)   Large scale wireless facilities adjacent to residential
occupancies or districts shall provide setbacks equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the tower height.
            (2)   Large scale wireless facilities not adjacent to residential
occupancies or districts shall provide a minimum setback from the property
lines of seventy five percent (75%) of tower height which may be reduced to no
less than thirty percent (30%) of the tower height upon the provision and
approval of an internal structural collapse engineered design, stamped by a
professional structural engineer licensed to practice in the state of Montana,
establishing a smaller collapse area.
            (3)   All large scale wireless facilities providing a setback of
less than one hundred percent (100%) of the tower height shall provide design
analysis and a narrative addressing the issue of ice fall.
            (4)   All structures shall be constructed in conformance with the
most recent version of either the standards of the uniform building code or the
Electronics Industries Association and the Telecommunications Industry
Association, commonly cited as EIA/TIA 222-G standards. The most rigorous
standard shall govern. All installations shall be certified as conforming by a
professional structural engineer licensed to practice in the state of Montana.
            (5)   Any modifications to existing wireless sites may only occur
in compliance with this section.
            (6)   Failure to comply with the terms of the zoning ordinance
shall be grounds for facilities to be removed by action of the town at the land
owner's expense.
   C.   Nonconforming Telecommunications Facilities:
      1.   Telecommunications facilities constructed prior to the adoption of
this section of the Manhattan zoning ordinance may be expanded and/or modified
subject to the following regulations:
         a.   The applicant must satisfy the requirements of subsections B1a
(2), B1a(3) and B1a(4) of this section.
         b.   The applicant must satisfy the requirements of subsection B1a(8)
of this section.
         c.   The applicant must satisfy the requirements of subsection B1d(4)
of this section.
      2.   The proposed expansion and/or modification to telecommunications
facilities constructed prior to the adoption of this section of the Manhattan
zoning ordinance shall meet the requirements of the district in which they are
located with regard to off street parking and loading, sign regulations and
landscaping regulations. (Ord. 291, 8-12-2003)
10-12-10: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: To minimize light pollution and ensure public
health, safety and welfare, the town of Manhattan has adopted the following
outdoor lighting standards:
      1.   All exterior lighting shall be designed, located and lamped in order
to prevent over lighting, energy waste, glare, light trespass and sky glow.
      2.   All nonessential exterior commercial and residential lighting is to
be turned off after business hours and/or when not in use. All commercial
lights are to be on a timer. Sensor activated lights are to be used for
security purpose lighting.
      3.   Canopy lights, such as service station lighting shall be fully
recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that no light source is visible from
or causes glare on public rights of way or adjacent properties.
      4.   All area lights are to be eighty five degree (85°) full cutoff type
luminaries.
   B.   Type Of Luminaries:
      1.   All exterior lighting shall use full cutoff luminaries with the
light source downcast and fully shielded, with the following exceptions:
         a.   Luminaries that have a maximum output of four hundred (400)
lumens per fixture, regardless of number of lamps (equal to one 40-watt
incandescent light) may be left unshielded provided the luminaire has an opaque
top or is under an opaque structure.
         b.   Luminaries that have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000)
lumens per fixture, regardless of the number of lamps (equal to one 60-watt
incandescent light) may be partially shielded provided the lamp is not visible,
and the luminaire has an opaque top or is under an opaque structure.
         c.   Floodlights with external shielding shall be angled such that no
light is directed above a twenty five degree (25°) angle measured from the
vertical line from the center of the light extended to the ground, and only if
the luminaire does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent property or
public rights of way. Photocells with timers that allow a floodlight to go on
at dusk and off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. are required.
         d.   Sensor activated luminaries, provided:
            (1)   It is located in such a manner as to prevent glare and
lighting onto properties of others or into a public right of way;
            (2)   The luminaire is set to only go on when activated and to go
off within five (5) minutes after activation has ceased;
            (3)   The luminaire shall not be triggered by activity off the
property.
         e.   Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed by
the fire and police departments, or other emergency services.
         f.   Up lighting for flags provided the flag is of a government and
the maximum lumen output is one thousand three hundred (1,300) lumens. Flags
shall be taken down at sunset to avoid the need for lighting.
         g.   Lighting of radio, communication and navigation towers; provided
the owner or occupant demonstrates that the federal aviation administration
(FAA) regulations can only be met through the use of lighting that does not
comply with this section and that the provisions of this section are otherwise
met.
         h.   Luminaries used for playing fields shall be exempt from the
height restriction provided all other provisions of this section are met and
the light is used only while the field is in use.
         i.   Unshielded tube lighting which parallels the perimeter of the
building or illuminates trees is permitted in the central business district.
   C.   Placement And Height Of Luminaries:
      1.   Parking area luminaries shall be no taller than seventeen feet (17')
from the ground to their tallest point. Parking area lights are encouraged to
be greater in number, lower in height and lower in light level, as opposed to
fewer in number, higher in height and higher in light level.
      2.   Freestanding luminaries on private property in or adjacent to
residential zones shall be mounted at a height equal to or less than the sum of
H=(D/3)+3, where D is the distance in feet to the nearest property boundary,
but shall not be higher than fifteen feet (15') from ground level to the top of
the luminaire, whichever is less.
      3.   Streetlights used on arterial roads may exceed twenty feet (20') in
height, with approval of the town council, and only with a finding that
exceeding twenty feet (20') is necessary to protect the safety of the residents
of Manhattan.
      4.   Luminaries used for playing fields shall be exempt from the height
restriction provided all other provisions of this section are met and the light
is used only while the field is in use.
   D.   Illuminance And Type Of Lamp:
      1.   Illuminance levels for parking lots, sidewalks, and other walkways
affected by side mounted building lights, and freestanding sidewalk lights (not
streetlights) shall not exceed illuminance levels listed in the most current
IESNA recommended practices.
      2.   Parking lot lighting shall not exceed an overall average
illumination of 1.5 foot-candles.
      3.   Streetlights shall be high pressure sodium, low pressure sodium or
metal halide, unless otherwise determined that another type is more efficient.
Streetlights along residential streets shall be limited to seventy (70) watt
high pressure sodium (hps) light with a lumen output of six thousand four
hundred (6,400). Streetlights along nonresidential streets or at intersections
shall be limited to one hundred (100) watts hps, with a lumen output of nine
thousand five hundred (9,500), except that lights at major intersections on
state highways shall be limited to two hundred (200) watts hps. If a light type
other than high pressure sodium is permitted the equivalent output shall be the
limit of the alternative light type.
      4.   All existing and/or new exterior lighting shall not cause light
trespass and shall protect adjacent properties from glare and excessive
lighting.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   All construction with exterior lighting, applications for zoning
permits, subdivision approval, conditional use permits, planned unit
developments, or applicable sign permits shall include lighting plans showing
location, type, height, lumen output, and illuminance levels in order to verify
that lighting conforms to the provisions of this section. The city engineer may
waive the requirement for illuminance level information only, if the city
engineer finds that the illuminance levels conform to this section.
For all other exterior lights which must conform to the requirements of this
section, an application shall be made to the town of Manhattan, showing the
location, type, height, lumen output and illuminance levels.
      2.   The city engineer shall review any new exterior lighting or any
existing exterior lighting on subject property that is part of an application
for zoning permit, subdivision approval, conditional use permit, planned unit
development, or applicable sign permit to determine whether the exterior
lighting complies with the standards of this section.
      3.   The city engineer shall convey in writing a recommendation whether
the exterior lighting complies with the standards of this section to the zoning
official, town of Manhattan planning consultant, town of Manhattan city-county
planning board or the Manhattan town council, as appropriate, before any review
or public hearing is conducted. (Ord. 06-003, 1-16-2006)
   F.   Penalties For Violations: Any person violating a provision of this
chapter for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code.
(Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
10-12-11: APPEALS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Town Council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
Board.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 13
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Proposed Parking Areas; Submission Of Plans; Contents
10-13-3: Joint Use
10-13-4: Number Of Spaces Required
10-13-5: Off-Street Loading
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
   This chapter is intended to reduce the need for parking on streets and the
traffic congestion and hazards caused thereby, and to provide for off-street
parking adequate to each type of development, in terms of both amount and
location.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 24-003, 3-14-2024)
10-13-2: PROPOSED PARKING AREAS; SUBMISSION OF PLANS; CONTENTS:
   The plan for the proposed parking area shall be submitted to the Office of
the Zoning Administrator at the time of the application for the zoning permit.
The plan shall clearly indicate the proposed development, including location,
size, shape, design, curb cuts, lighting, landscaping, construction details and
other features and appurtenances required:
   A.   Use Limited: Accessory off-street parking, required for the uses
specified in this chapter, shall be for use only by automobiles of employees,
customers and residents of the activity served.
      1.   Parking For Camping Purposes: It shall be unlawful for any person to
camp or sleep in a vehicle, motor home, camper trailer, camper or recreational
vehicle, whether self-propelled, towed, or hauled, parked on any public parking
lot or private parking lot without express written permission from the private
parking lot owner, street or alley way within the Town except when in
compliance with
Title 7 Chapter 12 of the Manhattan Town Code.
      2.   Single Family Residential Lot Exception: The owner of a single-
family residential lot may allow one or more persons to camp or sleep in a
parked motor home, camper trailer, camper or recreational vehicle located on
the single family residential lot on two (2) separate occasions per calendar
year for periods not to exceed thirty (30) days total, with a permit from the
Town. A permit will be required for any stay in excess of seven (7) days.
      3.   Parking On a Single-Family Residential Lot: No more than one motor
home, camper trailer, camper or recreational vehicle shall be allowed on a
single-family residential lot at one time.
      4.   Unacceptable Parking: No part of the motor home, camper trailer,
camper or recreational vehicle shall be parked on or extend over any public
property or right-of-way, including any street, alley, boulevard, sidewalk, or
park.
      5.   Sewer System and Gray Water Restrictions: The motor home, camper
trailer, camper or recreational vehicle shall not be connected to the Town of
Manhattan sewer system and shall not release gray water or any other type of
waste or substance upon the ground.
      6.   Camper Unit Storage: Property owners in residential zoning districts
are permitted to park one camper unit upon their property for the purpose of
storage of the unit.
      7.   Violations: Violations of this subsection A will be in accordance
with section
10-1-3, “Violation”, of this title.
   B.   Location: Off-street parking requirements shall be met on the same lot
as the building being served or on a lot within three hundred feet (300')
especially reserved for such uses, except that off-street parking facilities
for separate uses may be provided collectively on a separate lot, if the spaces
are not less than the total requirements of the separate uses and provided that
other requirements are met.
   C.   Size Of Spaces: An off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet
(9') in width and at least twenty feet (20') in length, exclusive of access
drives, yards, or ramps.
   D.   Screening: All open parking areas with four (4) or more parking spaces
shall be effectively screened by a wall, fence or landscaping from any property
in a residential district.
   E.   Lighting: No lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall face any
residential property in any district.
   F.   Paving: All off-street parking spaces, access drives, loading areas and
ramps shall be paved with asphalt or concrete designed to meet current
engineering standards.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 18-001, 4-12-2018; Ord. 24-003, 3-14-2024)
10-13-3: JOINT USE:
   A.   Power To Authorize: The Town Council may authorize the joint use of
parking facilities for the following uses or activities under conditions
specified:
      1.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required by this
chapter for primary nighttime uses, such as theaters, may be supplied by
certain types of buildings or uses referred to in this chapter as daytime uses
such as banks, offices, retail and personal service shops, clothing, food,
furniture, manufacturing or wholesale and related uses.
      2.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required by this
chapter for primarily daytime uses may be supplied by primarily nighttime uses.
      3.   Up to one hundred percent (100%) of the parking facilities required
by this chapter for a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or
parochial school, may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided
by uses primarily of a daytime nature.
   B.   Conditions Required: The building or use for which application is being
made to utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building
or use shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of such parking
facilities in addition to which:
      1.   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in
the principal operating hours of the two (2) buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
      2.   The applicant shall present a properly drawn legal instrument to be
recorded with the County Clerk and Recorder, executed by the parties concerned
for joint use of off-street parking facilities and approved as to form and
manner of execution by the Town Attorney; such instrument to be filed with the
County Clerk and Recorder upon approval by the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
10-13-4: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: No building shall be erected, enlarged to the
extent of increasing the floor areas by as much as fifty percent (50%), or
changed in use unless there is provided on the lot, space for the parking of
automobiles or trucks in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
Use Spaces Required
Use                                      Spaces Required
Banks, business and professional offices 1 space for each 400 square feet of
and office buildings                     floor area.
Bowling alleys                           4 spaces for each alley.
                                         1 parking space shall be provided for
Churches                                 each 5 seats, based on maximum seating
                                         capacity of the main assembly room or
                                         sanctuary.
Community centers or recreational        1 space for each 3 employees, plus 1
                                         space for each 3 seats.
Dwellings:                                
 Single and two-family structures       2 parking spaces for each unit.
 Multiple dwellings                     A minimum of 11/2 parking spaces per
                                         dwelling unit shall be provided.
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores, repair  1 space for each 400 square feet of
shops for household equipment, radio and floor area; 1 space for each 5
television and machinery sales and       employees.
repair establishments
Gas stations                             1 space for each 2 employees.
Hospitals                                1 parking space for each bed, plus 1
                                         parking space for each staff member.
Hotels and motels                        1 parking space for each room for
                                         rent; 1 space for each 5 employees.
Libraries, art galleries or museums      2 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
                                         feet of floor space.
                                         1 space for each 4 employees; 1
Motor freight companies                  additional space for each of the
                                         vehicles used in the conduct of the
                                         business at any time.
                                         1 space shall be provided for each
Private clubs and lodges                 room for rent; 1 space for each 100
                                         square feet of floor area; 1 space for
                                         each 4 employees.
Production, manufacture, cleaning,
servicing, testing or repair of          1 parking space for each 3 employees.
materials or commodities or warehousing
or storage buildings
Public utility and public service uses   1 parking space for each 3 employees,
                                         plus 5 spaces for public use.
Restaurants, bars, cafeterias or other   1 space for each 100 square feet; 1
eating and drinking places               space for each 4 employees.
Retail sales stores, personal service    1 parking space for each 150 square
establishments, shoe repair, barber and  feet of floor area.
beauty shops, etc.
Schools:                                  
 Elementary, nursery, or boarding       1 space for each 3 employees, plus 5.
  school
 High school                            1 space for each 2 employees plus 1
                                         for each 15 students.
Theaters and auditoriums                 1 parking space for each 4 seats.
 
   B.   Other Uses: For any other uses not specifically mentioned or provided
for, the Planning Board shall determine the standards to be applied for
parking, using as a guide the listed use which most closely resembles the use
proposed. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-13-5: OFF-STREET LOADING:
   A.   Where a building has been newly constructed or converted to a
commercial or industrial use occupying a gross floor area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or more, a minimum of one off- street loading space thirty
five feet by twelve feet (35' x 12') in size shall be made permanently
available.
   B.   Where more than one business use is to occupy the building, the Office
of the Zoning Administrator may require additional loading spaces. (Ord. 253,
12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Nonconforming Lots
10-14-2: Nonconforming Uses Of Land And Buildings
10-14-3: Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses
10-14-4: Nonconforming Structures
10-14-5: Maintenance
10-14-6: Home Occupation (Cottage Industry)
10-14-1: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
A parcel of land which does not comply with the area or requirements of the
district in which it is located, shall be the same and is declared to be a
lawful building site provided:
   A.   Single Ownership: Any lot or parcel of land under one ownership and of
record or the subject of a contract of sale on the effective date hereof and
where no adjoining land was then or is now owned by the same person, may be
used as a building site even when of less area or width than that required by
the regulations for the district in which it is located; or
   B.   Approved By Variance Procedure: Such site is approved by the variance
procedure as outlined in this Title; or
   C.   Government Acquisition: Such site conforms to the Code requirements,
but was made nonconforming by acquisition of a portion thereof by a
governmental entity so that the parcel size is decreased not more than twenty
percent (20%) and the yard facing any road was decreased not more than fifty
percent (50%).
   D.   Existed Prior To Adoption: Where buildings or structures have been
erected prior to or subsequent to the effective date hereof, the area on which
such building or structures are erected shall not be subsequently divided so as
to reduce the building site area and/or frontage below the requirements of this
Title for the zoning district within which such building exists. (Ord. 253, 12-
1-1998)
10-14-2: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
A lawful use of land or a building on the effective date of this Title, or its
amendment, which is made no longer permissible by the terms of this regulation
or its amendment, may be continued if it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   A.   Enlarged, Increased Or Extended: No such nonconforming use shall be
enlarged, increased or extended to occupy a greater area of land or a greater
portion of a building than was occupied by such use at the effective date
hereof, or amendment of this regulation.
   B.   Moved: No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part,
to any other portion of the lot, parcel or building of being occupied by such
use at the effective date hereof, or amendment of this regulation.
   C.   Use Cases: If any such nonconforming use ceases for a period of more
than one year, any subsequent use of land or a building shall conform to this
Title for the zone in which it is located. The term "ceases", as used in this
case means that the activity in question has not been in operation for a period
of one year. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-14-3: ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
In all residential districts any use lawfully existing, but which becomes
nonconforming by the adoption of the ordinance codified in this Title, but
permitted only in the L-1 Light Industrial District:
   A.   Obsolete, Dilapidated Or Substandard: Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this Chapter, whenever a nonconforming structure is determined to
be obsolete, dilapidated or substandard by the Town Council, the right to
operate, occupy or maintain such structure may be terminated by action of the
Council and such structure shall be demolished. Such action by the Town Council
shall follow the procedures for amendments in Chapter 16 of this Title. Where
the property owner refuses to demolish the building, the Town Council is
empowered to demolish the building and assess the cost of demolition as a lien
on the property. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-14-4: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where structures exist that could not be built under the terms of this Title,
such structures may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful;
provided, that:
   A.   Increase In Nonconformity: No such structure may be enlarged or altered
in a way that increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Destroyed: Should such structures be destroyed by any means, in extent
of more than seventy five percent (75%) of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provision of this Title.
   C.   Moved: Should such structure be moved, it shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district to which it is relocated. (Ord. 253, 12-1-
1998)
10-14-5: MAINTENANCE:
Any land, building or structure of nonconforming use may be maintained or
repaired; provided, that such repair or maintenance does not constitute an
expansion or enlargement; provided, further, that the Board of Adjustment may
grant a permit for the enlargement of an existing building or erection on the
same lot or plot of ground of additional buildings for trade, business or
industry located in the district restricted against its use where such
enlargement or expansion of facilities will not be detrimental or tend to alter
the character of the neighborhood. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-14-6: HOME OCCUPATION (COTTAGE INDUSTRY):
Upon receiving an application, in writing, describing, the location, the full
nature and extent of the occupation, which includes addressing all items in the
definition of "home occupation", the Town Council will review the application
at a Town meeting. The Town Council has the authority to grant or deny the
application. Upon a written complaint being filed and after proper fact finding
the Town Council may revoke the permit. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 15
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose
10-15-2: Definitions
10-15-3: Signs Permitted Without A Permit
10-15-4: Sign Regulations
10-15-5: Area Computation; Permitted Deviations
10-15-6: Application Procedure
10-15-7: Appeals Of Town Council Decision Regarding Sign Permits With
Deviations
10-15-8: Appeals Of Zoning Administrator Decision Regarding Sign Permits
Without Deviations
10-15-9: Penalty
10-15-1: PURPOSE:
By establishing regulations for on-premises signs, the purpose of this Chapter
is to:
   A.   Promote the general health, safety and welfare of the public.
   B.   Protect property values through eliminating visual clutter and light
intrusion.
   C.   Create a more attractive economic and business climate.
   D.   Enhance the physical appearance and respect the identity of the
community.
   E.   Reduce hazards, obstructions and distractions that may endanger persons
and contribute to vehicular accidents.
   F.   Encourage the protection of historic resources.
   G.   Protect the area's natural scenic beauty.
   H.   Provide all businesses an equal opportunity to display signage adequate
for people to locate the goods and services they desire. (Ord. 259, 12-7-1999)
10-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meanings set forth in
this Section:
                        A roof-like structure composed of a skeletal frame,
AWNING:                 covered with a fabric or similar material, and that
                        projects beyond the wall of a building, generally
                        constructed to provide protection from the weather.
AWNING SIGN:            A sign attached to, printed on, or made part of an
                        awning.
                        A sign or portion thereof with letters or numbers that
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN:   can be periodically changed or rearranged without
                        altering the face of the sign.
FREESTANDING SIGN:      A permanent sign supported by a structure anchored in
                        the ground and not attached to any building.
                        Illumination of a sign from a concealed light source
ILLUMINATION, EXTERNAL: outside the sign face, whereby light reflects from the
                        exterior of the sign face.
                        Illumination of a sign emanating from a concealed light
ILLUMINATION, INTERNAL: source behind the sign face, whereby light projects
                        through a translucent sign face or silhouettes features
                        of an opaque sign face.
                        A sign attached to or part of a marquee, which is a
MARQUEE SIGN:           permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond the
                        wall of a building and generally designed to provide
                        protection from the weather.
                        A combined proposal for all signs on two (2) or more
MASTER SIGNAGE PLAN:    contiguous lots, or for all signs on one lot with two
                        (2) or more uses or business establishments.
                        A freestanding sign composed of a solid structure
MONUMENT SIGN:          between finished grade and the top of the sign. The
                        solid structure may include a vertical opening of not
                        more than one foot (1').
PORTABLE SIGN:          A sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a
                        permanent structure.
                        A sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
PROJECTING SIGN:        that the sign faces are perpendicular to the building
                        or wall.
ROOF SIGN:              A sign constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
                        building.
                        A temporary and movable, nonilluminated sign placed on
SIDEWALK SIGN:          the sidewalk immediately in front of the business
                        establishment it serves, and displayed only during
                        business hours.
SUSPENDED SIGN:         A sign suspended from the underside of a horizontal
                        surface.
TEMPORARY SIGN:         A sign that is placed for a period not to exceed 48
                        hours and is not greater than 4 square feet.
                        A sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
                        that the sign face is parallel to the building or wall.
WALL SIGN:              For gasoline service stations and similar uses, signs
                        on the fascia of a protective canopy and signs attached
                        to objects or apparatus beneath the canopy shall be
                        considered as wall signs.
                        A sign that may include lettering, pictures or symbols,
                        designed to communicate information about an activity,
WINDOW SIGN:            business, commodity, event, sale or service, that is
                        placed inside a window or affixed to the glass and is
                        visible from the exterior of the window. (Ord. 259, 12-
                        7-1999; amd. Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
 
10-15-3: SIGNS PERMITTED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts and do not require a
permit:
   A.   Architectural Decoration: Decorative or architectural features integral
to the design of a building, except moving parts, flashing lights, or letters
or trademarks indicating a use or business housed within the building.
   B.   Campaign Signs: Signs erected in conjunction with campaigns for elected
public office when erected no sooner than sixty (60) days prior to the election
and removed no later than fifteen (15) days following the election.
   C.   For Sale Signs: Signs advertising the sale, lease or rental of the
premises on which the sign is located, and which do not exceed six (6) square
feet in area.
   D.   Governmental Insignia: Flags, banners, symbols or other insignia of any
governmental body or political subdivision.
   E.   Holiday Decorations: Decorative lights and visual elements associated
with traditional public or religious holidays and which are displayed only
during the normal holiday season.
   F.   Identification Signs: Signs bearing only property numbers, postbox
numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other identification of premises.
The area of such signs shall not exceed one square foot. The area of such signs
shall not exceed one square foot.
   G.   Information Signs: Signs directing, informing, or guiding pedestrians
or vehicles on public or private property, whether erected by public or private
bodies, and bearing no advertising matter. The area of such signs shall not
exceed two (2) square feet.
   H.   Legal Notices: Posted notices of public hearings or administrative
procedures, or other legal notices erected or required by governmental bodies.
   I.   Preexisting Signs: Any sign erected prior to the effective date hereof
shall be exempt from the requirements set forth herein. However, any subsequent
alteration to a preexisting sign that results in any alteration to its external
appearance shall cause the sign to be subject to regulation by this chapter.
   J.   Sidewalk Signs: Sidewalk signs, if not illuminated and if displayed
only during business hours of the establishment displaying the sign. The area
of a sidewalk sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet.
   K.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs may be used in any zoning district and
must comply with the regulations in section
10-15-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 259, 12-7-1999; amd. Ord. 09-002, 10-13-2009; Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-15-4: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   All Districts: All signs requiring permits must comply with the
following regulations:
      1.   Awning Signs:
         a.   Placement: An awning sign may be placed only on the valance at
the base of an awning or on that portion of a curved awning that is vertical.
No sign shall be placed on nonvertical curved or slanted portions of an awning.
         b.   Maximum Height: Maximum height of lettering and other designs of
an awning sign shall be eight inches (8").
         c.   Area: The area of one awning sign shall be excluded from the
maximum total area of signs allowed on the lot. Additional awning signs shall
be calculated as wall signs. Awning signs shall not be allowed above the first
floor of a building.
      2.   Changeable Copy Signs: Changeable copy signs are permitted in all
but residential districts. This permitted use is contingent upon the continued
maintenance of the copy or reader board and the prompt updating of information
and replacement of missing letters or numbers to avoid the blighting influence
of poorly maintained changeable copy signs.
      3.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall not be placed within
the sight distance triangle required for traffic safety.
      4.   Historic Signs: Any sign that can be demonstrated to have been
erected at least twenty five (25) years prior to the effective date hereof
shall be exempt from the requirements set forth herein, so long as the sign is
restored to and continues to be maintained in its original condition.
Applicants for historic sign designations must be granted a historic sign
permit as per section
10-15-6 of this chapter.
      5.   Illuminated Signs: An illuminated sign or lighting device must emit
a light of constant intensity, and no sign may be illuminated by or contain
flashing, intermittent, rotating or moving lights. Portions of a sign that
indicate the current time or temperature shall be allowed to have intermittent
illumination. No illuminated sign or lighting device may be placed or directed
so that the illumination therefrom causes glare or reflection beyond the
property lines of the lot. No exposed light bulbs except Christmas decoration.
      6.   Marquee Signs: Marquee signs shall be calculated as wall signs.
      7.   Master Signage Plan:
         a.   Sign Applications: Sign applications eligible for consideration
as part of a master signage plan may, at the discretion of the planning board,
be required to be submitted as a master signage plan.
         b.   Projecting Signs: Where projecting signs are permitted in a
district, the maximum number of projecting signs in a master signage plan shall
be one per use or business establishment.
         c.   Freestanding Signs: Where freestanding signs are permitted in a
district, the maximum number of freestanding signs for all uses or business
establishments included in a master signage plan shall not exceed two (2).
         d.   Maximum Total Area: For each business establishment greater than
one that is included in a master signage plan, the maximum total area of all
signs permitted under the master signage plan shall increase by fifty percent
(50%) over the total sign area permitted for one use in that district. However,
the total area of any individual sign shall not exceed the total area for
individual signs permitted in that district, and the maximum height of any sign
shall not exceed the maximum sign height permitted in that district.
      8.   Moving Signs: No sign or portion thereof may consist of or contain
moving devices, including, but not limited to, banners, pennants, ribbons,
streamers or spinners.
      9.   Signs On Multiple-Frontage Lots: Lots fronting on two (2) or more
streets are allowed the permitted sign area for the initial building frontage,
and each subsequent building frontage shall be allowed a maximum of twenty five
percent (25%) of the permitted sign area for the initial frontage.
      10.   Portable Signs: Portable signs, except for sidewalk signs, are
prohibited in all districts. Portable signs that have changeable copy are
allowed up to thirty (30) days per organization.
      11.   Roof Signs: Roof signs are prohibited in all districts.
      12.   Suspended Signs: Suspended signs shall be calculated as wall signs
or projecting signs, depending on their orientation in relation to the surface
of the building to which they are attached.
      13.   Wall Signs: A wall sign shall not project more than one foot (1')
from the face of the building to which it is attached. A wall sign attached to
the fascia of a protective canopy shall not project horizontally or vertically
beyond the edges of the fascia. A wall sign attached to an object or apparatus
underneath a protective canopy shall not project horizontally or vertically
beyond the edges of the object or apparatus to which it is attached. (Ord. 259,
12-7-1999)
      14.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs may be put up no more than eight
(8) hours in advance of the event the sign is advertising and must be removed
within eight (8) hours following the conclusion of the event. (Ord. 09-002, 10-
13-2009)
   B.   AG Agricultural District:
      1.   Area: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot shall be thirty two
(32) square feet.
      2.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs are permitted in this district.
      3.   Wall Signs: No more than one shall be permitted on a lot.
      4.   Window Signs: Window signs are permitted in this district.
      5.   Freestanding Signs: No more than one shall be permitted on a lot.
The maximum height shall be twelve feet (12') with a six foot (6') clearance,
and have a ten foot (10') setback.
      6.   Illumination: Internally and externally illuminated signs are
permitted in this district.
   C.   RR Rural Residential District:
      1.   Area:
         a.   Permitted Uses: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot for
permitted uses shall be eight (8) square feet.
         b.   Conditional Uses: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot for
conditional uses shall be sixteen (16) square feet.
      2.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs are not permitted in this
district.
      3.   Wall Signs: No more than one shall be permitted on a lot.
      4.   Window Signs: Window signs are not permitted in this district.
      5.   Freestanding Signs: No more than one shall be permitted on a lot.
The maximum height shall be six feet (6'). Freestanding signs of any type other
than a monument sign are not permitted in this district.
      6.   Illumination: Internally illuminated signs are not permitted in this
district.
   D.   R-1 Low Density Residential District: Maximum total area of all signs
on a lot for conditional uses shall be eight (8) square feet.
   E.   R-3 Medium Density Residential District: Maximum total area of all
signs on a lot for conditional uses shall be eight (8) square feet.
   F.   CBD Central Business District:
      1.   Area: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot shall be two hundred
(200) square feet.
      2.   Projecting Signs:
         a.   Maximum Number: Maximum number permitted on a lot shall be two
(2).
         b.   Maximum Total Area: Maximum total area of any projecting sign
shall be twenty four (24) square feet.
         c.   Height; Clearance:
            (1)   Maximum height of any projecting sign shall not exceed twenty
four feet (24').
            (2)   Signs that extend over a sidewalk or walkway shall have a
vertical clearance of at least eight feet (8').
            (3)   Signs that extend over a driveway, an alleyway, or pavement
shall have a minimum height of fourteen feet (14') to bottom of sign.
      3.   Wall Signs: Maximum square feet of signage per linear foot of
building frontage: 1.5.
      4.   Window Signs:
         a.   Area: Window signs may cover no more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the surface area of the window or door on which such signs are placed.
In calculating maximum permitted area, window signs shall be considered to be
wall signs.
         b.   Temporary Signs: Temporary window signs shall not be counted into
the total signage allowance. Temporary window signs may be displayed without a
permit in ground level windows only, and may include, but are not limited to:
public notices concerning off- premises special events or public meetings,
announcements of on- premises special events; and announcements of sales and
specials.
      5.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs are permitted with a maximum
height of sixteen feet (16'), and a maximum total area of twenty four (24)
square feet.
      6.   Illumination: Internally and externally illuminated signs are
permitted in this District.
   G.   NHB Neighborhood Highway Business District:
      1.   Area: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot shall be no more than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      2.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs are permitted in this District.
         a.   Number: Maximum number permitted on a lot shall be two (2).
         b.   Area: Maximum total area of any projecting sign shall be twenty
four (24) square feet.
         c.   Height; Clearance:
            (1)   Maximum height of any projecting sign shall be fifteen feet
(15').
            (2)   Signs that extend over a sidewalk or walkway shall have a
vertical clearance of at least eight feet (8').
            (3)   Signs that extend over a driveway an alleyway or pavement
shall have a minimum height of fourteen feet (14') to the bottom of the sign.
      3.   Wall Signs: Maximum square feet of signage per linear foot of
building frontage: 2.0.
      4.   Freestanding Signs:
         a.   Number: Maximum number permitted on a lot shall be one per zoned
lot.
         b.   Specifications: One freestanding sign with a minimum fifteen foot
(15') setback with a maximum elevation of 4,312.25 feet above mean sea level
(elevation of existing Conoco sign as of December 1999) with a maximum total
area of one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
      5.   Illumination: Internally and externally illuminated signs are
permitted in this District.
      6.   Setback: No sign shall be placed within the required twelve foot
(12') setback from public street and highway frontages, where such required
setback has been established.
   H.   L-1 Light Industrial District:
      1.   Area: Maximum total area of all signs on a lot shall be two hundred
(200) square feet.
      2.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs are permitted in this District.
         a.   Number: Maximum number permitted on a lot shall be two (2).
         b.   Area: Maximum total area of any projecting sign shall be twenty
four (24) square feet.
         c.   Height; Clearance:
            (1)   Maximum height of any projecting sign shall be fifteen feet
(15').
            (2)   Signs that extend over a sidewalk or walkway shall have a
vertical clearance of at least eight feet (8').
      3.   Wall Signs: Maximum square feet of signage per linear foot of
building frontage: 2.0.
      4.   Freestanding Signs:
         a.   Number: Maximum number permitted on a lot shall be one per one
hundred feet (100') of frontage on each public street abutting the lot.
         b.   Area: Maximum total area of any freestanding sign shall be:
            (1)   Fifty (50) square feet if set back at least twenty five feet
(25') from a public right of way.
            (2)   Thirty four (34) square feet if set back less than twenty
five feet (25') from a public right of way.
         c.   Height: Maximum height of any freestanding sign shall be eight
feet (8').
      5.   Illumination: Internally and externally illuminated signs are
permitted in this district. (Ord. 259, 12-7-1999)
10-15-5: AREA COMPUTATION; PERMITTED DEVIATIONS:
   A.   Computation Of Sign Area:
      1.   Measurement Of Sign Area: Sign area shall comprise the length times
the width of a sign at the outside edge. Circular or other alternative shapes
shall not exceed maximum square footage.
      2.   Area Of Multifaced Sign: The area of a sign with more than one face
shall be computed by using the length times the width of each face visible from
any one point.
   B.   Permitted Deviations From Sign Regulations:
      1.   Exceptional Cases: To accomplish the purpose of this chapter, and to
produce an environment, landscape quality or architectural character superior
to that produced by the standard sign regulations, in exceptional cases it may
be necessary to deviate from the strict application of the sign regulations
prescribed herein.
      2.   Recommendation Of Planning Board: In such exceptional cases, the
planning board may recommend and the town council may authorize deviations
beyond or below minimum or maximum standards for signs, respectively, if it is
demonstrated in the submittal that the deviation will produce an environment,
landscape quality or architectural character superior to that produced by the
standard sign regulations.
      3.   Application: An application for deviation shall be subject to the
submittal and approval requirements of section
10-15-6 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by sufficient documentation to
illustrate the superior environment, landscape quality or architectural
character that the deviations will produce, over and above compliance with the
standard sign regulations. (Ord. 259, 12-7-1999)
10-15-6: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permit Required: Prior to placing, erecting or modifying any sign
requiring a permit under this chapter, the owner of the lot shall obtain a sign
permit.
   B.   Required Documentation: The application for a sign permit shall consist
of:
      1.   A letter of intent stating the owner’s name and address.
      2.   Accurate, scaled drawing of the proposed sign or signs.
      3.   An accurate, scaled drawing of the proposed location of the sign or
signs on the building(s) and lot(s).
      4.   Where one or more deviations are requested, sufficient explanation
of the result to be obtained from the proposed deviation, in comparison to
compliance with the standard sign regulations, to allow the planning board and
town council to make a reasoned decision on the application. (Ord. 259, 12-7-
1999)
      5.   The application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by a fee, the
amount of which shall be set and amended as necessary by resolution. No permits
shall be reviewed or issued unless or until such fee is paid in full. (Ord.
298, 8-9-2004)
   C.   Submittal To Zoning Administrator: Applications for sign permits shall
be submitted to the town hall, which shall review applications as follows:
      1.   Applications Not Requesting Deviations: The zoning administrator
shall review the application materials and, upon finding that the application
materials are complete and that the proposed sign or master signage plan
conforms to the intent and regulations of this chapter, may approve, approve
with conditions, or deny an application for a sign permit without deviations.
      2.   Applications Requesting Deviations: For an application with
deviations, the planning board shall hold a public hearing on the proposed sign
or master signage plan. At the public hearing, interested parties and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard. Following the public hearing, the
planning board shall make a recommendation to the town council, which shall
also hold a public hearing prior to making a decision for approval, approval
with conditions, or denial.
   D.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the public hearings for a sign permit
before the planning board and town council shall be prominently posted on the
front of the lot where the proposed sign is to be installed. Such notice shall
be posted at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing and shall
remain posted until the public hearing is closed.
   E.   Master Signage Plan: Application and review procedures for a master
signage plan shall be the same as for a single sign permit.
   F.   Historic Sign Permit: Applicants requesting designation of a sign as a
“historic sign” shall be required to document, for review by the planning
board, the date when the sign was erected and the dates of subsequent
alterations. Historic sign applications are subject to the public hearing
procedures of this section.
(Ord. 259, 12-7-1999)
10-15-7: APPEALS OF TOWN COUNCIL DECISION REGARDING SIGN PERMITS WITH
DEVIATIONS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Town Council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
Board.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-15-8: APPEALS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION REGARDING SIGN PERMITS
WITHOUT DEVIATIONS:
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
zoning administrator, may present to the Board of Adjustments a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is unfounded, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the complaint. Such petition shall be presented to
the Board of Adjustments within thirty (30) days after the filing of the
decision of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 24-004, 5-9-2024)
10-15-9: PENALTY:
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth
in section
1-4-2 of this code.
(Ord. 259, 12-7-1999)
CHAPTER 16
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Initiation
10-16-2: Investigations
10-16-3: Hearing
10-16-1: INITIATION:
The Town Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or change this Title
and the regulation of maps, appertaining thereto:
   A.   Town Initiated: An amendment, supplement or change may be initiated by
the Town Council.
   B.   Property Owner Initiated: Whenever the property owner of any land or
building desires a reclassification of his/her property or change in
regulations applicable thereto, he/she may file with the Zoning Administrator
on forms provided by the Town for this purpose, a petition duly signed and
verified by him/her requesting an amendment or change of regulations prescribed
for such property.
   C.   Filing Fee: A fee shall be paid to the Town upon filing of each
application for the purpose of defraying expenses incidental to proceedings. No
application will be regarded as having been filed until such fee has been paid.
Said fee amount may be obtained from the Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-16-2: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon initiation of an amendment, by the Town Council or upon petition from a
property owner, the Town Council shall request the Planning Board to make an
investigation of the petition and will provide necessary information to assure
that the action of each such petition is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this Title and the Manhattan Master Plan. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998; amd. 2000
Code)
10-16-3: HEARING:
Before an amendment is approved or denied, two (2) public hearings shall be
held, one before the Planning Board and the other before the Town Council.
   A.   Planning Commission Hearing: The Planning Commission, after their
review and investigation of the application shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed amendment, supplement or change in a district's boundary, at which
time, all interested parties and citizens shall have an opportunity to provide
testimony for or against the application. They shall forward their
recommendation onto the Town Council.
   B.   Town Council Hearing: The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed amendment, supplement or change in the district boundary, at which
time interested parties and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
   C.   Notice Of Hearings: Notice of the public hearings shall be published at
least once in an official paper or paper of general circulation at least
fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days prior to each of the
public hearings.
   D.   Protest: In case, however, of protest against such changes signed by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more either of the area of those lots
immediately adjacent extending one hundred fifty feet (150') in all directions,
such amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of
three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the Town Council. (Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 17
MAPS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Manhattan Zoning Map
10-17-2: Manhattan Jurisdictional Area Zoning Map
10-17-1: MANHATTAN ZONING MAP:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1664.gif]
 
(Ord. 253, 12-1-1998)
10-17-2: MANHATTAN JURISDICTIONAL AREA ZONING MAP:
The Manhattan jurisdictional area zoning map is on file in the town clerk's
office. (Ord. 08-004, 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 18
TOWNHOUSE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Minimum Lot Size
10-18-2: Building Design Standards
10-18-3: Building Design
10-18-1: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
For two (2) contiguous units, the minimum lot size in the R-3 zoning district
shall be eight thousand five hundred (8,500) square feet. For three (3) to five
(5) contiguous units, the minimum lot size shall be three thousand (3,000)
square feet per unit. In R-1 zoning district, the minimum lot size for two (2)
townhomes shall be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. (Ord. 20-001, 7-9-
2020)
10-18-2: BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Unit Size: Every townhouse dwelling unit shall have a minimum of one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of floor area. The footprint,
exclusive of the garage, for a townhouse unit shall not be less than nine
hundred (900) square feet of floor area.
   B.   Garage: Every townhouse dwelling unit shall have a minimum one (1) car
garage.
   C.   Height Of Structure: Maximum height for any townhouse structure shall
not be greater than the specific zoning district in which the townhouse is
proposed.
   D.   Dwelling Unit Access: Each townhouse unit shall have two (2) separate
entries from the ground on which the structure is erected.
   E.   Building Coverage: In the R-3 zoning district, townhomes, including any
accessory buildings, shall not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the
individual lot area. In the R-1 zoning district, townhomes, including any
accessory building, shall not cover more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the
individual lot area.
   F.   Street Frontage: Each townhouse project site shall border on a public
street, except provided that they face private or common open areas.
   G.   Right-Of-Way Setback: No townhouse unit shall be located closer than
fifteen (15) feet from any public right-of-way or within fifteen (15) feet of a
private drive, access road, or common open parking area, to the front or rear
of such dwelling.
   H.   Yard Requirements: In the R-3 zoning district, each individual
townhouse lot shall have a minimum front yard of fifteen (15) feet and a rear
yard of twenty (20) feet. The minimum side yard requirements shall be eight (8)
feet from any adjoining property line of the townhouse project site. If, due to
unique and innovative design techniques, townhouse units are arranged such that
said setback requirements are not feasible, a variance may be requested at the
time of project submittal.
   In the R-1 zoning district, each individual townhouse lot shall have a
minimum front yard of twenty-five (25) feet. However, in blocks where
residential buildings have been erected on forty percent (40%) or more of the
lots, the front yard shall not be less than the average front yard thus
established. Corner lots shall have a minimum setback of twenty-five (25) feet
on the frontage with the narrowest width and fifteen (15) feet on the frontage
with the longest width. Lots abutting on cul-de-sacs shall have a front yard of
not less than twenty- five (25) to the closest point of the structure. There
shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than twenty (20) feet. Rear
yards having a depth of not less than ten (10) feet may be approved by the town
council if the lot has no alley. There shall be a side yard having a depth of
not less than eight (8) feet.
   I.   Parking Spaces Required: In the R-3 zoning district, a minimum of two
(2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each townhouse unit. One
(1) space as required may be within the driveway of the front yard setback
area. In the R-1 zoning district, a minimum of two (2) off-street parking
spaces shall be provided for each townhouse unit.
      1.   Parking spaces may be provided on the lot of the townhouse or in a
commonly owned and maintained off-street parking bay; provided that such a
parking facility is within one hundred (100) feet.
      2.   Required parking spaces shall not be located in any front or side
yard, except in a driveway.
      3.   Access drives to parking areas shall be allowed in front and side
yards, but shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in width.
   J.   Construction: All permanent off-street parking spaces and access areas
thereto shall be paved. Temporary exemptions for access approaches from the
property line to the street surface may be granted based on public street
paving schedules established by the City. Individual unit parking spaces and/or
townhouse site parking bay facilities shall be designed and constructed
according to stipulations set forth in Chapter 13 of this Code.
      1.   A minimum distance of forty (40) feet shall be maintained between
all curb cuts (centerlines). Not more than one (1) curb cut shall be permitted
per two (2) townhouses.
      2.   In no case shall any curb cut be permitted which, in the opinions of
the Town Engineer and Town Planner, may cause an unsafe or hazardous driving
condition.
   K.   Maintenance Of Common Areas: All common areas and facilities including,
but not limited to, recreational facilities, off-street parking and common open
space shall be maintained in a satisfactory manner without expense to the
general taxpayers of the Town. In order to ensure the maintenance of and the
payment of taxes on the commonly held non-public property, a mandatory
homeowners association shall be created and be recorded in the public records
of Gallatin County if satisfactory to the Town Council.
   L.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory building shall be erected in any
required front yard or side yard setback area, and no separate accessory
building shall be erected within ten (10) feet of any principal building. An
accessory building shall not be located within ten (10) feet of the rear
property line or occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the rear yard
area.
   M.   Utilities And Services: Each individual townhouse unit shall be
connected to and serviced by public water and sewer lines, or connected to a
sewer and water system that has been approved by the Montana Department of
Health and Environmental Sciences. The water and sewer lines shall be
independent of any other townhouse unit or structure.
      1.   Water service shall have curb stop and valve for each townhouse
unit. Sewer lines shall have strategically placed "clean-outs" as required by
the City Engineer.
      2.   Necessary easements shall be indicated and recorded on the townhouse
plat and be of a width that is satisfactory to the Town Engineer.
      3.   All utility services shall be designed for subdivisions that are
platted for townhouse development at the time of plat submittal. The Town
Engineer and/or city utilities supervisor shall review said utility plans with
any necessary recommendations.
      4.   Utility services shall be designed such that unnecessary disturbance
of paved streets shall be avoided. (Ord. 20-001, 7-9-2020)
10-18-3: BUILDING DESIGN:
   A .    Townhomes should integrate repetition with variety. The townhomes
below illustrate this concept. Long homogenous facades should not dominate;
rather, the design tends to mimic, and be compatible in scale with, the variety
usually found in single family residential development.
   B.   Setback Variation. No more than two (2) abutting townhouses or
townhouse groupings within the townhouse project site shall have a common front
building setback. Variations in the setback of front building faces shall be at
least two (2) feet. Height variations shall also be incorporated, if feasible,
in townhouse design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.png]
   C.   Townhouse clusters must employ one (1) or more of the following
repetition with variety guidelines:
      1.   Reversing the elevation of two (2) out of four (4) dwellings.
      2.   Providing different building elevations by changing the roofline,
articulation, windows, and/or building modulation patterns.
      3.   Adding a different dwelling design or different scale of the same
design, such as adding a one (1) story version of the basic dwelling design
where two (2) stories are typical (or a two (2) story design where three (3)
stories are typical).
      4.   Other design treatments that add variety or provide special visual
interest. While the variable use of color on buildings can be effective in
reducing the perceived scale of the building and adding visual interest, color
changes alone are not sufficient to meet the intent of the standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.png]
(Ord. 20-001, 7-9-2020)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title And Governing Bodies
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Purpose; Intent
11-1-5: Designated Agency
11-1-1: TITLE AND GOVERNING BODIES:
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the MANHATTAN SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS hereinafter referred to as "this title".
The Town of Manhattan town council shall be the governing body, for all
applications pursuant to this title within the town limits, hereinafter
referred to as "the town".
The Gallatin County Commissioners shall be the governing body, for all
applications pursuant to this title within the urban growth area and planning
jurisdictional area of the Town of Manhattan as shown on the adopted Town of
Manhattan future land use map, hereinafter referred to as "the county". (Ord.
24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
Authorization for this title is contained in the Montana subdivision and
platting act (MSPA) and the Montana code annotated (MCA). (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
This title governs the division of land within Gallatin County which is located
within the town.
   A.   Within Town: If a subdivision is located both within the town and
outside the town, the division of land is governed by this title.
   B.   Urban Growth Area: If a subdivision is located within the urban growth
area (UGA) of the town, as depicted on the official future land use map of
Manhattan, the division of land is governed by this title.
   C.   Proposed Annexation: If a subdivision is proposed to be annexed to the
town prior to finalization, the subdivision may be governed by this title but
must be annexed prior to final plat. The Manhattan town council may combine
public hearings and otherwise coordinate the subdivision review process and
annexation procedures whenever possible.
   D.   Outside Town: If a subdivision is located outside of the town and urban
growth area but within the jurisdictional area of the Manhattan city-county
planning board as shown on the official future land use map of Manhattan, the
subdivider shall submit the preliminary plat to the Manhattan city-county
planning board for review. The recommendation of the Manhattan city-county
planning board shall be forwarded to the Gallatin County commission.
   E.   This Title Supplements Other Regulations: This title supplements all
other regulations, and where they are at variance with other laws, regulations,
ordinances, or resolutions, the more restrictive requirements apply. Other
regulations include, but are not limited to, zoning regulations, floodplain
regulations, building codes, development codes, and fire codes. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-1-4: PURPOSE; INTENT:
.   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the subdivision of land; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to lessen congestion in the streets and highways; to
provide for adequate light, air, water supply, sewage disposal, parks and
recreation areas, ingress and egress, and other public requirements; to require
development in harmony with the natural environment; and with the townscape
character of the town, to protect the rights of property owners; to promote
preservation of open space; to promote development approaches that minimize
costs to citizens and that promote effective and efficient provision of public
services; and to require uniform monumentation of land subdivisions and
transferring interests in real property by reference to plat or certificate of
survey.
   B.   Intent: Further, to support the purposes of MCA 76-3-102, this title is
intended to promote and to provide for:
      1.   The orderly development of the town.
      2.   The preservation of agricultural activities and agricultural water
use facilities.
      3.   The coordination of streets within subdivided land with other
streets, both existing and planned.
      4.   The dedication of land for roadways and for public utility
easements.
      5.   The townscape character of Manhattan.
      6.   The provision of proper physical and legal access, including
obtaining of necessary easements.
      7.   The provision of adequate open spaces for travel, light, air, and
recreation.
      8.   The provision of adequate transportation, water, drainage, and
sanitary facilities.
      9.   The avoidance or minimizing of congestion.
      10.   The avoidance of subdivision which would involve unnecessary
environmental degradation.
      11.   The encouragement of subdivision development in harmony with the
natural environment.
      12.   The avoidance of danger or injury by reason of natural hazard or
the lack of water, drainage, access, transportation, or other public services.
      13.   The avoidance of excessive expenditure of public funds for the
supply of public services.
      14.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat for subdivided
lands.
      15.   The administration of this title by defining the powers and duties
of approving authorities including procedures for the review and approval of
all plats of subdivisions covered by these provisions.
      16.   The improvement of roads.
   C.   Growth Policy: Pursuant to MCA 76-1-605 and MCA 76-1-606, these
regulations are intended to implement the Manhattan city-county growth policy.
These subdivision regulations are also intended to be in accordance with the
growth policy. In the case of a difference of meaning or implication between
these regulations and the Manhattan city-county growth policy, the subdivision
regulations shall supersede the growth policy. The town council may not
withhold, deny, or impose conditions on any land use approval or other
authority to act based solely on compliance with the Manhattan city-county
growth policy. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-1-5: DESIGNATED AGENCY:
   A.   City-County Planning Board: The town council does hereby delegate to
the city-county planning board the responsibility to accept applications for
subdivision approval, advertise and conduct public hearings on preliminary
plats, and submit in writing its recommendations to the town council to
approve, conditionally approve, or deny a subdivision proposal reviewed under
the MSPA.
   B.   Staff Planner:
      1.   Defined: "Staff planner" shall be defined as a professional land use
planner hired by the Town or the county of Gallatin to be the subdivision
administrator, whichever is pertinent at the time.
      2.   Duties: The staff planner shall advise the town council if
subdivision plats meet all state and local requirements. The staff planner will
also provide technical assistance to the city-county planning board and the
town council regarding all aspects of the MSPA. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Construction
11-2-2: General Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
When consistent with the context, words used in the present tense shall include
the future; the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular;
the word "shall" is always mandatory, and the word "may" indicates use of
discretion in making decisions. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For this title, the following words or phrases shall have the meaning assigned
to them by this section:
ACCESS ROAD(S): All off-site roads that connect to an interior subdivision road
or a direct driveway approach to a subdivision lot. An access road may be a
town or county maintained road.
ADJOINING LANDOWNER OR PROPERTY OWNER: The owner of record of a parcel of land
that is contiguous, at any point, or land that is separated from the parcel
only by a road, watercourse, or deeded right-of-way.
AGRICULTURE: The cultivation or tilling of soil for the purpose of producing
vegetative materials for sale or for use in a commercial operation and/or the
raising or tending of animals for use or commercial sale. All aspects of
farming or ranching including the cultivation or tilling of soil; dairying; the
production, cultivation, growing, harvesting of agricultural or horticultural
commodities; raising of livestock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry; and
any practices including, forestry or lumbering operations, including
preparation for market or delivery to storage, to market, or to carriers for
transportation to market. Agriculture does not include gardening for personal
use, keeping of house pets, or landscaping for aesthetic purposes.
AGRICULTURAL WATER USER FACILITY: Those facilities which provide water for
irrigation or stock watering to agricultural lands to produce agricultural
products. These facilities include, but are not limited to, ditches, head
gates, pipes, and other water conveying facilities.
ALIQUOT PART: An equal division of a government section as described by the
'Manual for the Survey of The Public Lands of the United States'.
ALLEY: A public or private way reserved as a secondary means of access to the
rear or side of lots which adjoin on and are served by public roads.
ARTERIAL ROAD: A road having the primary function of moving traffic with
emphasis on a high level of mobility for through movement and the secondary
function of providing access to adjacent land. Arterials generally carry
relatively large volumes of traffic.
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT): The average number of moving vehicles on a roadway
segment during a non-holiday week day.
BASE FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A base flood is the same as a one hundred (100)
year flood.
BLOCK: A piece or tract of land surrounded by public highways roads, waterways,
railway, right- of-way, or parks, etc., or a combination thereof. A group of
lots, tracts, or parcels within well- defined and fixed boundaries.
CENTRAL SEWAGE SYSTEM: A public sewage system as defined in MCA 75-6-102 and
ARM 17.36.101.
CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM: A public water supply system as defined in MCA 75-6-102
and ARM 17.36.101.
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY: A drawing of a field survey prepared by a registered
land surveyor for the purpose of disclosing facts pertaining to boundary
location.
COLLECTOR ROAD: A road that gives equal priority to the movement of traffic and
access to abutting properties.
COMMON OPEN SPACE OR AREA: Undeveloped land within a subdivision that has been
designated, dedicated, reserved, or restricted in perpetuity from further
development and is set aside for the use and enjoyment by residents of the
development. Common open space shall not be part of individual residential
lots. It shall be substantially free of structures, but may contain historic
structures and archaeological sites, and/or recreational facilities for
residents, including but not limited to, meeting rooms, benches, picnic tables,
and interpretive signage as indicated on an approved development plan.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of individual ownership with unrestricted right of disposal
of one or more units in a multiple unit project with the land and all other
parts of the project held in common ownership or use with owners of the other
units. Pursuant to MCA 70-23-102 (5), condominium means the ownership of single
units with common elements located on property submitted to the provisions of
the unit ownership act (MCA title 70, chapter 23).
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: The grant of a property right or interest from the
property owner to a unit of government or nonprofit conservation organization
stipulating that the described land shall remain in perpetuity (or defined
period) in its natural and open state, precluding future or additional
development (except for any allowable structures or facilities).
CONTIGUOUS TRACT: For these regulations, a parcel of land next to, abutting,
adjacent to, adjoining or touching another individual parcel of land, including
tracts which are separated only by public right-of-way.
COVENANT: An agreement, or restriction, in writing, of two or more parties by
which any of the parties pledges to the others that something is done or shall
be done. Covenant or restrictive covenant: A limitation contained in a deed or
other document that restricts or regulates the use of the real property.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general
and public use, reserving no rights which are incompatible with the full
exercise and enjoyment of the public use to which the property has been devoted
(MCA 76-3-103(3)).
DIVISION OF LAND: The segregation of one or more parcels of land from a larger
tract held in single or undivided ownership by transferring or contracting to
transfer title to or possession of a portion of the tract or properly filing a
certificate of survey or subdivision plat establishing the identity of the
segregated parcels pursuant to the MSPA. The conveyance of a tract of record or
an entire parcel of land that was created by a previous division of land is not
a division of land (MCA 76-3-103(4)).
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof providing complete, independent,
and permanent living facilities for one family.
EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest in land that gives a person or entity the
right to use the land of another for a specific purpose or purposes.
ENGINEER (REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER): A person licensed in conformance
with the Montana professional engineers registration act (MCA title 37, chapter
67) to practice engineering in the state of Montana.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing showing the subdivision and dedication which is
prepared for filing for record with the county clerk and recorder and contains
all elements and requirements set forth in MSPA and these subdivision
regulations.
FIRM-FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The map on which the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) has delineated both the one hundred (100) year
floodplains and the risk premium zones.
FIRST MINOR SUBDIVISION: A proposed minor subdivision from a tract of record
that has not been subdivided or created by a subdivision under the MSPA, or has
not resulted from a tract of record that has had more than five (5) parcels
created from that tract of record under MCA 76-3-201 or MCA 76-3-207, since
October 1st, 2023. (MCA 76-3-609(2)).
FLOOD OF 100 YEAR FREQUENCY: A flood magnitude which has a one percent chance
of occurring in any given year, or is a flood magnitude which is expected to
recur on the average of once every one hundred (100) years (MCA 76-5-103 (9)).
FLOOD: The water of any watercourse or drainage which is above the bank or
outside the channel and banks of such watercourse or drainage (MCA 76-5-103
(8)).
FLOODPLAIN: The area adjoining the watercourse or drainage that would be
covered by the floodwater of a one hundred (100) year flood (MCA 76-5-103
(10)). The floodplain consists of a floodway and floodway fringe.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream or river and the adjacent over bank areas
that must be reserved to discharge a base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than six inches (6").
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside the limits of the
floodway but within the floodplain.
GOVERNING BODY: The governing authority of a county, city, town, or
consolidated local government organized pursuant to law (MCA 76-3-103 (7)). The
governing body referred to in these regulations is the town council of
Manhattan ("town council").
GROWTH POLICY: An official public document adopted and used by a local
government as a general guide for development and conservation decisions. It is
not a regulation; rather, it is an official statement of public policy to guide
growth and change. The required and optional elements of a growth policy are
listed in MCA title 76, chapter 1, part 6.
HEALTH AUTHORITIES: The Montana department of environmental quality, local and
county health officer, local sanitarian, or another authorized representative.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY: A spouse, children by blood or adoption, and parents.
LEGAL ACCESS: Where access to a subdivision, or any lot within a subdivision,
is provided by a dedicated public road right-of-way over which a governing body
has accepted or acquired jurisdiction, a private right-of-way, or over which
the town council will accept jurisdiction upon approval of the subdivision
application.
LOCAL SERVICES: All services that local governments, public or private
utilities are authorized to provide for the benefit of their citizens. These
services include, but are not limited to, law enforcement, fire protection,
water supply, recreation, roads, parks, libraries, schools, wastewater and
solid waste collection and disposal.
LOT: A parcel, plot or other land area created by subdivision for sale, lease,
or rent.
LOT MEASUREMENTS:
Lot Depth. The average distance from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
Lot Width. The average distance between side lot lines.
Lot Frontage. The width of the front lot line.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot determined exclusive of highway, alley, road, or
any other right-of- way.
LOT TYPES:
Corner Lot. A lot located at the intersection of two roads or a road and an
alley.
Interior Lot. A lot with no frontage on any road.
Double Frontage Lot. A lot with both front and rear lot lines abutting a road.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision containing six (6) or more lots, which does
not qualify for review as a minor subdivision.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision that creates five or fewer lots.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit, which may consist of
one or more sections, fabricated at a factory, and designed to be towed on its
own chassis to a building site for occupation as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation. The term includes, but is not limited to, "trailer
homes," "house trailers," and "manufactured homes" whether the unit has been
constructed after July 1, 1976, in conformance with federal manufactured home
construction and safety standards. The term does not include "modular" or
"factory-built buildings" that are fabricated at a factory in accordance with
the uniform building code standards applicable to site- built homes, and are
transported to the site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME LOT OR SPACE: A designated portion of a
manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home
and its accessory buildings or structures for the exclusive use of the
occupants.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME STAND: That area of a manufactured home lot which
has been prepared for the placement of a manufactured home.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME PARK: Any real property under single ownership or
control for which the primary purpose is the placement of two or more
manufactured homes for permanent residential dwellings and to produce income. A
manufactured home park does not include real property used for the display and
sale of manufactured units, nor does it include real property used for seasonal
purposes only, as opposed to year-round occupancy. Home sites within the park
are leased to individual homeowners, who retain customary leasehold rights.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and/or intended
for the sale of lots for siting manufactured homes.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable, manufactured Structure, suitable for year-round
single-family occupancy and having water, electrical, and sewage connections
like those of conventional dwellings. This definition applies only to units
constructed prior to the federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act of 1974, which became effective June 15, 1976. Compare to the
definition of manufactured home.
MONUMENT (PERMANENT MONUMENT): Any structure of masonry, metal or other
permanent material placed in the ground which is exclusively identifiable as a
monument to a survey point, expressly placed for surveying reference (ARM
8.94.3001).
MSPA: Montana subdivision and platting act, MCA title 76, chapter 3.
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT: The physical conditions which exist within a given area,
including land, water, mineral, flora, fauna, sound, light, and objects of
historic or aesthetic significance.
NET DENSITY: The number of residential dwelling units per unit of land,
excluding any land used or to be used as road rights-of-way and dedicated
parkland/open space.
OPEN SPACE: A land or water area devoid of buildings and other physical
structures except where accessory to the provision of recreation.
ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK: The outermost line that water impresses on land by
covering it for sufficient periods to cause physical characteristics that
distinguish the area below the line from the area above it. Characteristics of
the area below the line include, when appropriate, but are not limited to
deprivation of the soil of substantially all terrestrial vegetation and
destruction of its agricultural vegetative value. A floodplain adjacent to
surface waters is not considered to lie within the surface waters' high-water
marks (MCA 23-2-301).
PEDESTRIAN FACILITY: A sidewalk or walkway, separate from the traveled portion
of the Roadway located in a right-of-way.
PHASED DEVELOPMENT OR SUBDIVISION: A large-scale development which is designed
to be completed, one defined geographic area (phase) at a time, with each phase
standing on its own in terms of access, circulation, utilities, parks, and open
space, and so on, in the event subsequent phases are delayed or canceled.
For subdivision preliminary plat applications submitted on or after May 8,
2017, phased development also means a subdivision application and preliminary
plat that at the time of submission consists of independently platted
development phases that are scheduled for review on a schedule proposed by the
subdivider. (§ MCA 76-3-103(10)).
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A land development project consisting of
residential clusters, industrial parks, shopping centers, office buildings,
parks, or any combination thereof which comprises a planned mixture of land
uses built in a pre-arranged relationship to each other and having open space
and community facilities in a common ownership or use.
PLANNING BOARD: The Manhattan city-county planning board.
PLANNING DEPARTMENT: The Manhattan planning department or land use planning
contractor.
PLAT: Preliminary Plat. A legible and scaled drawing of a proposed subdivision
showing the layout of roads, alleys, lots, blocks, and other elements of a
subdivision that furnish a basis for review by a governing body as more
specifically set forth in these regulations and the MSPA.
Final Plat. The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication required to be
prepared for filing for record with the county clerk and recorder containing
all elements and requirements set forth in these regulations and the MSPA.
(title 76, chapter 3, MCA).
Amended Plat. The final drawing of any change to a filed platted subdivision or
any lots within a filed platted subdivision.
Vacated Plat. A plat which has been voided under the provisions of MCA 76-3-
305, 7-5- 2501, 7-5-2502, 7-14-2616 (1) and/or (2), 7-14-2617, 7-14-4114 (1)
and/or (2), and 7-14-3115.
PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT: Private improvements are the same types of improvements as
defined under public improvements, except the structure or facility has not
been dedicated to the public or otherwise acquired by a government entity for
public use.
PROPERTY OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity shown as being
the legal owner of a tract, parcel, or lot in the records of the town or county
clerk and recorder.
PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An association whether incorporated or not,
formed to own, manage, or maintain common property or facilities.
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY: A condition of optimal well-being, free from danger
or injury, for a community at large, not merely for an individual or small
group of persons.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any structure or facility constructed to serve more than
one lot in a subdivision which is dedicated to the public or otherwise acquired
by a government entity for public use. Examples of typical public improvements
include parks, roads, sidewalks, trails, curbs, gutters, street lighting,
utilities, and systems for water supply, sewage disposal, drainage, or fire
protection.
PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM: A system of collection, transportation, treatment, and
disposal of sewage that serves fifteen (15) or more families or twenty-five
(25) or more persons daily for any sixty (60) or more days in a calendar year
(MCA 75-6-102 and ARM 17.36.101).
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: A system for the provision of water for human
consumption from any community well, water hauler for cisterns, water bottling
plant, water dispenser, or other water supply that has at least fifteen (15)
service connections or that regularly serves at least twenty-five (25) persons
daily for any sixty (60) or more days in a calendar year. (MCA 75-6-102 and ARM
17.36.101).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A place used for public camping where persons can
rent space to park individual camping trailers, pickup campers, motor homes,
travel trailers or automobiles for transient dwelling purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A designated portion of a recreational vehicle park
designed for the placement of a single recreational vehicle and the exclusive
use of its occupants.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY (ROW): A linear public way established or dedicated for public
purposes by a duly recorded plat, deed, easement, grant, prescription,
condemnation, governmental authority or by operation of law, intended to be
occupied by a road, trail, motorized and non-motorized vehicle path, railroad,
electric transmission lines, water line, sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line,
or other similar uses.
ROADWAY: That portion of the road right-of-way which is improved or is proposed
to be improved to carry traffic and provide for the on-road storage of
automobiles; where curb is provided, the roadway is measured from face-of-curb
to face-of-curb.
STRUCTURE: A combination of materials to form a building, edifice, or any piece
of work for use, occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, or below the
surface of land or water. This excludes materials that the finished height is
at grade of adjacent ground.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, or corporation, or other entity who causes land
to be subdivided or who proposes a subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: A division of land or land so divided which creates one or more
parcels containing less than one hundred sixty (160) acres that cannot be
described as a one (1) quarter aliquot part of a United States government
section, exclusive of public roadways, in order that the title to the parcels
may be sold, or otherwise transferred and includes any re-subdivision and a
condominium. The term also means an area, regardless of its size, that provides
or will provide multiple spaces for rent or lease on which recreational camping
vehicles or mobile homes will be placed (MCA 76-3-103(15)).
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR: The person or persons authorized by the governing
body to perform the duties of review and administration as set forth in these
regulations.
SUBSEQUENT MINOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision of five (5) or fewer parcels that
is not a first minor subdivision.
SURVEYOR (REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR): A person licensed in conformance with the
Montana professional engineers, registration act (MCA 37-67-101 through 37-67-
332) to practice surveying in the State of Montana.
SWALE: A drainage channel or shallow depression designed to direct surface
water flow.
TITLE OF REPORT (ABSTRACT OF TITLE, SUBDIVISION GUARANTEE, OR PLATTING REPORT):
A report from a title service company on the condition of title to the property
proposed for subdivision, which identifies the owners of record of the
property, lien holders, encumbrances, easements and restrictions of record, and
all other conditions of title of public record, and accompanied by a guarantee
of the accuracy of the report from the title insurance agent or its
underwriter.
TOWNHOME OR TOWNHOUSE: Property that is owned subject to an arrangement under
which persons own their own units and hold separate title to the land beneath
their units, but under which they may jointly own the common areas and
facilities. (MCA 70-23-102 (14))
TRACT: Land area proposed to be subdivided.
TRACT OF RECORD: An individual parcel of land, irrespective of ownership, that
can be identified by legal description, independent of any other parcel of
land, using documents on file in the records of the county clerk and recorder's
office (MCA 76-3-103(17)(a)).
TRAIL: A public facility that accommodates recreational and transportation
needs of citizens.
TRAILS PLAN: A planning document adopted as an amendment to the Manhattan city-
county growth policy pursuant to title 76, chapter 1, MCA that serves as a
guide for future trail facility needs.
TRANSPORTATION PLAN: A planning document adopted by the Town of Manhattan which
serves as a guide for future transportation system needs.
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM: The network of public roads, intersections, sidewalks,
bike facilities, trails, and transit systems.
UN-SUBDIVIDED LAND: Existing transferable parcels of land which are not
recorded as parcels or lots within a platted subdivision. Parcels of land not
created through the MSPA or local subdivision review process.
UTILITIES: Public or private services that are necessary for development of the
property. This includes any required servicing lines for water, sewer,
electrical power, internet, or telephone service. This list is not exhaustive
and other lines necessary to service a development maybe included under
utilities.
VARIANCE, UNDUE HARDSHIP: The physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the property involved preclude the development of the property.
Undue hardship does not include personal or financial hardship, or any hardship
that is self-imposed.
VICINITY SKETCH: A map at a scale suitable to locate a proposed subdivision,
showing the boundary lines of all adjacent properties and roads, trails, and
other information necessary to determine the general location of the proposed
subdivision.
WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: Agricultural water user facilities and other
facilities that convey water for agriculture, stock, domestic, fish and
wildlife, industrial, irrigation, mining, municipal, power, recreation, aquifer
recharge or mitigation, and all other beneficial uses set forth in MCA 85-2-
101, et seq. These facilities include, but are not limited to, ditches, canals,
pipelines, flumes, wells, infiltration galleries, diversion structures,
headgates, pumps, blowoffs, swales and associated infrastructure. This term is
not intended to include a "watercourse" as defined in these regulations or any
man-made structure the primary purpose of which is to convey stormwater.
WATERCOURSE: Any natural stream, river, creek, drainage, waterway, gully,
ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and
has a definite channel, bed, and banks, and includes any area adjacent thereto
subject to inundation by reason of overflow. The term watercourse shall not be
construed to mean any facility created exclusively for the conveyance of
irrigation water.
WETLAND: Areas that are inundated and saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency or duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas.
WILDLIFE: Animals that are neither human, domesticated, nor feral descendants
of commonly domesticated animals.
WILDLIFE HABITAT: The place or type of habitat where wildlife naturally lives.
(Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Construction Timing
11-3-2: Transfers Of Title
11-3-3: Preapplication Process
11-3-4: Permission To Enter
11-3-5: Appeals
11-3-6: Initial Review Process For Preliminary Plats
11-3-7: Final Plats
11-3-7-1: Submission
11-3-7-2; Contents
11-3-7-3: Review
11-3-7-4: Approval; Disapproval
11-3-7-5: Filing
11-3-7-6: Correcting Or Amending Recorded Final Plats
11-3-8:    Restrictive Covenants; Approval, Content And Enforcement By
Governing Body
11-3-9:    Public Improvements Agreement; Guaranty
11-3-10: Amending Approved Preliminary Plats Before Final Plat Approval
11-3-1: CONSTRUCTION TIMING:
The subdivider shall not proceed with any construction work on the proposed
subdivision, including grading or excavating, to install public improvements,
until the town has granted preliminary approval of the proposed subdivision
plat and contact has been made with any agricultural water user whose facility
crosses or is directly adjacent to the proposed subdivision. Written
communication and response from said agricultural water user shall be supplied
to the town. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-2: TRANSFERS OF TITLE:
Except as noted below, a final subdivision plat must be filed for record with
the Gallatin County clerk and recorder before title to the subdivided land can
be sold or transferred in any manner. After the preliminary plat of a
subdivision has been approved or conditionally approved, the subdivider may
enter contracts to sell lots in the proposed subdivisions if all the following
conditions are met:
   A.   Escrow Agent: Under the terms of the contracts, the purchasers of lots
in the proposed subdivision make any payments to an escrow agent, which must be
an escrow agent chartered to do business in the state.
   B.   Payments: Under the terms of the contracts and the escrow agreement,
the payments made by purchasers of lots in the proposed subdivision may not be
distributed by the escrow agent to the subdivider until the final plat of the
subdivision is filed with the Gallatin County clerk and recorder.
   C.   Failure To File Final Plat: The contracts and the escrow agreement
provide that if the final plat of the proposed subdivision is not filed with
the Gallatin County clerk and recorder within the approval period of the
preliminary plat including any approved extensions by the town council, the
escrow agent shall immediately refund to each purchaser any payments made under
the contract.
   D.   Taxes And Special Assessments: The Gallatin County treasurer has
certified that all real property taxes and special assessments assessed and
levied on the land to be divided have been paid.
   E.   Required Language: The contracts contain the following language
conspicuously set out therein:
      1.   The real property which is the subject hereof has not been finally
platted, and until a final plat identifying the property has been filed with
the Gallatin County clerk and recorder, title to the property cannot be
transferred in any manner.
   F.   Submittal To Planning Board: A copy of the contracts and escrow
agreements described above must be submitted to the town council. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-3-3: PREAPPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Meeting Required: Prior to submittal of a subdivision application, the
subdivider shall request a preapplication meeting with the subdivision
administrator. The meeting shall occur within thirty (30) days after the
subdivider submits a written request for the meeting to the subdivision
administrator.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this meeting is to discuss this title and
standards, and to familiarize the subdivider with the applicable goals and
objectives of the Manhattan city-county growth policy and zoning regulations
and to discuss the proposed subdivision as it relates to these matters.
   C.   Sketch Plan: At the time of the preapplication meeting request, the
subdivider shall provide to the subdivision administrator a sketch of the
proposed subdivision showing the layout of the proposed features in relation to
existing site conditions.
      1.   The sketch shall be a scaled map of the area proposed for division
at a scale that is adequate to show the property and must include the
following:
         a.   Information on the status of the site, including:
            (1)   Location;
            (2)   Approximate tract and lot boundaries of existing tracts of
record;
            (3)   Description of general terrain;
            (4)   Natural features on the land, including water bodies,
floodplains, geologic hazards, and soil types;
            (5)   Existing structures and improvements;
            (6)   Existing utility lines and facilities serving the area to be
subdivided;
            (7)   Existing easements and rights of way;
            (8)   Existing conservation easements;
         b.   Documentation on the status of the site, including:
            (1)   Existing covenants or deed restrictions;
            (2)   Ownership information, such as a deed, option to buy or buy-
sell agreement, including permission to subdivide;
            (3)   Water rights, including location of agricultural water
facilities;
            (4)   Any special improvement districts; and
            (5)   Rights of first refusal for the property.
         c.   Information on the proposed subdivision, including:
            (1)   Tract and proposed lot boundaries;
            (2)   Proposed public and private improvements;
            (3)   Location of utility lines and facilities;
            (4)   Easements and rights of way; and
            (5)   Parks and open space; and
            (6)   Proof of adequate and legal water supply; and
            (7)   Proposed conservation easements.
   D.   Additional Meeting Topics: At the preapplication meeting:
      1.   The subdivision administrator shall identify, for informational
purposes, the state laws, local regulations, and growth policy provisions that
may apply to the subdivision review process including, but not limited to,
zoning regulations, floodplain regulations, building codes and fire codes;
      2.   The subdivision administrator shall provide the subdivider with a
list of public utilities, local, state, and federal agencies, and any other
entities that have an interest in the proposed subdivision and that may be
contacted for comment by the subdivision administrator or planning board on the
subdivision application. The subdivision administrator shall also identify the
periods that the public utilities, agencies, and other entities are given to
respond; and
      3.   The subdivision administrator shall identify additional information
the subdivision administrator anticipates will be required for review of the
subdivision application. This does not limit the ability of the subdivision
administrator to request additional information later.
   E.   Time Limit: Unless the subdivider submits a subdivision application
within one hundred eighty (180) days of this preapplication meeting, the
subdivider must request a new preapplication meeting prior to submitting the
subdivision application, unless the subdivision administrator provides
communication extending the one hundred eighty (180) day timeline.
   F.   The subdivision administrator shall only approve an extension if there
are no material changes. Material changes are considered the following,
although not an exhaustive list:
      1.   Configuration;
      2.   Increase in the density or number of lots;
      3.   Road layout;
      4.   Water and/or septic proposals;
      5.   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
      6.   Easement provisions; and
      7.   Designated access. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-4: PERMISSION TO ENTER:
The town's designated agent(s) or affected agencies identified during the
preapplication meeting may investigate, examine, and evaluate the site of the
proposed subdivision to verify information provided by the subdivider and to
subsequently monitor compliance with any conditions if the preliminary plat is
conditionally approved. The submission of a subdivision application constitutes
a grant of permission by the subdivider for the governing body, its agents, and
affected agencies to enter the subject property. The agent(s) or agencies shall
provide the subdivider notice of intent to visit the site. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-3-5: APPEALS:
Appeals can be made as stated in MCA 76-3-625. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-6: INITIAL REVIEW PROCESS FOR PRELIMINARY PLATS:
For both minor and major subdivisions, the initial review process is as
follows:
   A.   Element (Completeness) Review:
      1.   Within five (5) working days of receipt of a subdivision application
and fee submitted in accordance with any deadlines established for submittal,
the subdivision administrator shall determine whether the application contains
all the applicable materials required by this title and shall give written
notice to the subdivider of the subdivision administrator's determination.
         a.   If the subdivision administrator determines that elements are
missing from the application, the subdivision administrator shall contact the
applicant and identify those elements in the notification, and no further
action shall be taken on the application by the subdivision administrator until
the application is resubmitted.
         b.   The subdivider may correct the deficiencies and submit the
required materials in accordance with any deadlines established for submittal.
         c.   If the subdivider corrects the deficiencies and resubmits the
application the subdivision administrator shall have five (5) working days to
notify the subdivider whether the resubmitted application contains all the
materials required by this title, as applicable.
         d.   This process shall be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application containing all the materials required by this title, or the
application is withdrawn.
         e.   The five (5) working day review period shall be considered met if
the letter is dated, signed, and placed in the outgoing mail within the five
(5) working day review period.
   B.   Sufficiency Review:
      1.   Within fifteen (15) working days after the subdivision administrator
notifies the subdivider that the application contains all of the elements
required by this title as applicable, the subdivision administrator shall
determine whether the application and required elements contain detailed,
supporting information that is sufficient to allow for the review of the
proposed subdivision under these regulations and shall give written
notification to the subdivider of the subdivision administrator's
determination.
         a.   If the subdivision administrator determines that the information
in the application is not sufficient to allow for review of the proposed
subdivision, the subdivision administrator shall identify specific required
information in its notification and provide written notification to the
applicant, and no further action shall be taken on the application by the
subdivision administrator until the material is resubmitted.
         b.   The subdivider may correct the deficiencies and submit the
requested information in accordance with any deadlines established for
submittal, or withdraw the application.
         c.   If the subdivider corrects the deficiencies and resubmits the
application, the subdivision administrator shall have fifteen (15) working days
to notify the subdivider whether the resubmitted application and required
elements contain detailed, supporting information that is sufficient to allow
for review of the proposed subdivision under these regulations.
         d.   This process shall be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application that contains detailed, supporting information that is sufficient
for review of the proposed subdivision under the provisions of these
regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
         e.   The fifteen (15) working day review period shall be considered
met if the letter is dated, signed, and placed in the outgoing mail within the
fifteen (15) working day review period.
      2.   A determination that an application contains sufficient information
for review does not ensure that the proposed subdivision will be approved or
conditionally approved by the governing body and does not limit the ability of
the subdivision administrator, planning board, or the governing body to request
additional information during the review process.
      3.   A determination of sufficiency by the subdivision administrator
pursuant to this section does not limit the DEQ from requiring additional water
and sanitation information as part of the DEQ review.
   C.   Applicable Regulations: Subdivision review and approval, conditional
approval, or denial shall be based on those regulations in effect at the time a
subdivision application and preliminary plat is deemed to contain sufficient
information for review. If regulations change during the element or sufficiency
review, the determination of whether the application contains the required
elements and sufficient information, and the subdivision review, shall be based
on the new regulations. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7: FINAL PLATS:
11-3-7-1: SUBMISSION:
The final plat must be submitted to the subdivision administrator before the
expiration of the preliminary plat approval period and at least fourteen (14)
days before a regularly scheduled meeting of the planning board. An application
for final plat approval, together with the final plat, two (2) copies of the
final plat, the appropriate review fee and any other required documents as
dictated by the conditions of approval shall be submitted to the subdivision
administrator. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7-2: CONTENTS:
   A.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: The final plat submitted for
approval shall conform to the preliminary plat as previously reviewed by the
planning board and approved by the town council. The final plat shall
incorporate all modifications and conditions of approval required in the review
process. The final plat shall comply with the Montana uniform standards for
final subdivision plats (ARM 8.94.3003).
   B.   Phased Development: Because subdivisions may be completed in phases,
separate final plats may be filed that constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat that reflects that phase of the development;
provided, that such portion conforms to all requirements of this title and is
approved by the Town Council. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7-3: REVIEW:
The final plat will be reviewed, provided that all requirements for the form
and content and its supplements are met, to assure that it conforms to the
conditions of approval for preliminary plat. Any significant change may require
the holding of a public hearing for review.
   A.   Examination By Land Surveyor: The town council shall require that final
subdivision plats be reviewed for errors and omissions in calculation or
drafting by an examining land surveyor before recording with the Gallatin
County clerk and recorder. When the survey data shown on the plat meets the
conditions set forth by the MSPA and the Montana uniform standards for
monumentation and final subdivision plats, the examining land surveyor shall so
certify on the plat. No land surveyor having a financial or personal interest
in a plat shall act as an examining land surveyor regarding that plat.
   B.   Certificate Of Abstract: A certificate of abstract indicating all
delinquent taxes, trustees, lien holders, owners of record, claimants of
record, rights of way and easements must be provided with the preliminary plat.
The certificate of abstract must be dated not more than one year before the
application is submitted. The town may provide for the review of the abstract
or certificate of title of the land in question by the town attorney.
   C.   Guarantee Of Public Improvements: As a condition of the approval of the
final plat, the subdivider shall have installed all required improvements or
shall enter into a subdivision improvements agreement guaranteeing the
construction and installation of all such improvements. If the completion of
the subdivision improvements is to be deferred, then the projected cost of
completing the improvements and the financing arrangements must be specified.
The city engineer or consulting engineer designated by the town council shall
review and certify all public improvements have been installed in conformance
with the plans and specifications.
   D.   Supporting Documentation: The subdivider must disclose information on
the ownership of water rights, mineral rights, and development rights, if
separate from the ownership of the property to be subdivided. The subdivider is
also required to provide documentation on utility easements and legal access.
Copies of easements, right of way records or other documentation must be
submitted with the application to verify utility easements and legal access.
   E.   Approval, Or Denial: Approval, or denial may be granted for the entire
development. However, final plat approval may be granted to requested phases as
they are submitted. Final plat approval for each subsequent phase will be
contingent upon completion and acceptance by the town of all improvements in
each preceding phase.
   F.   Noxious Weed MOU: Prior to final plat approval, a memorandum of
understanding shall be entered into by the weed control district and the
developer. The memorandum of understanding shall be signed by the district and
the developer prior to final plat approval, and a copy of the signed document
shall be submitted to the planning department with the application for final
plat approval. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7-4: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Action By Town Council: The town council shall approve or disapprove
the final plat within forty-five (45) days of its presentation to the planning
board. The subdivision administrator and the planning board shall examine the
final subdivision plat and shall recommend approval only when it conforms to
the conditions of approval set forth on the preliminary plat and to the terms
of the MSPA and this title.
   B.   Basis For Decision: The town council shall examine every final
subdivision plat and shall approve it when, and only when, it conforms to the
conditions of approval set forth for the preliminary plat and to the terms of
the MSPA and this title.
   C.   Approval Certified; Disapproval, Reasons Stated: Approval shall be
certified by the town on the face of the final plat. If the final plat is
disapproved, the reasons for disapproval shall be stated in the records of the
town and noted on the final plat.
   D.   Return Of Disapproved Final Plat; Resubmittal: The final plat, along
with the reasons for disapproval, shall be returned to the subdivider within
ten (10) days of the action. The town will provide a written statement on the
reasons, evidence that justifies the denial or conditional approval, and
information describing the appeal process for the denial to the applicant. The
applicant may then make necessary corrections and resubmit the final plat for
approval.
   E.   Inaccurate Information; Withdrawal of Approval: The town council may
withdraw approval of a plat if it determines that information provided by the
subdivider, and upon which such decision was based, is inaccurate. (Ord. 24-
007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7-5: FILING:
Within thirty (30) days of the approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall
submit for filing the approved final plat and supplementary documents with the
Gallatin County clerk and recorder. After approval, the plats may not be
altered in any manner. The Gallatin County clerk and recorder shall refuse to
accept any plat for record that fails to have approval in proper form or that
has been altered, and shall file the approved plat only if it is accompanied by
the documents specified in uniform standards for final subdivision plats. (Ord.
24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-7-6: CORRECTING OR AMENDING RECORDED FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Correcting Filed Recorded Plats: Corrections of drafting or surveying
errors that, in the town's opinion, will not materially alter the plat, its
land division, or the improvements to less than the standards contained herein,
may be made by the submission of a corrected final plat for the town's
approval. The plat shall be entitled "Corrected Plat of the (name of
subdivision) Subdivision" and the reason for the correction shall be stated on
the face of the plat.
   B.   Amending Final Plats:
      1.   Material Alterations:
         a.   Filing Amended Plat: Changes that materially alter the final plat
or any portion thereof or its land divisions or improvements shall be made by
the filing of an amended plat showing all alterations. Within a platted
subdivision, any division of lots which results in an increase in the number of
lots, or which redesigns or rearranges six (6) or more lots, must be reviewed
and approved by the town and an amended plat must be filed with the Gallatin
County clerk and recorder.
         b.   Procedures: The amended plat shall be subject to procedures for
major or minor subdivision, as is appropriate. The town may not approve an
amendment which will place the plat in nonconformance with the standards
contained, the MSPA, local zoning regulations, floodplain regulations, or any
other relevant regulation herein unless a public hearing is held on the plat
and a written variance from the standards is issued pursuant to section
11-10-2  of this title.
         c.   Consent Of Property Owners: The town council may not approve an
amendment unless it is consented to, in writing, by all affected property
owners.
         d.   Final Amended Plat Submitted: The final amended plat submitted
for approval shall comply with the Montana uniform standards for final
subdivision plats (ARM 8.94.3003) with the exception that the title shall
include the word "Amended", or "Amended Plat of the (name) Subdivision", or "
(name) Subdivision Amended".
      2.   Exemption From Amended Plat Review: Amended subdivision plats that
show the relocation of common boundaries and the aggregation of lots within
platted subdivisions where five (5) or fewer of the original lots are affected
within a platted subdivision filed with the Gallatin County clerk and recorder
are exempt from approval as subdivisions. An amended plat must be prepared
following the requirements of the Montana uniform standards for final
subdivision plats (ARM 8.94.3003) except that in place of the town's approval,
the landowner certifies that the approval of the town is not required pursuant
to MCA 76-3-207(2). (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-8: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS; APPROVAL, CONTENT AND ENFORCEMENT BY GOVERNING
BODY:
   A.   Identification Of Covenants On Plat: The governing body may require
that some or all restrictive covenants governing the use of land within the
subdivision, whether proposed by the subdivider or required by the governing
body, be set forth in a separate heading identifying them as plat approval
covenants, and indicating: "These covenant(s) may not be repealed or amended
without prior written consent of the Town of Manhattan."
   B.   Required Language Under Certain Conditions: The governing body may
require that all restrictive covenants it has required as a condition of plat
approval contain the following language: "The Town of Manhattan is a party to
this restrictive covenant and may enforce its terms."
   C.   Common Property Deeded To Property Owners' Association:
      1.   Provisions Of Covenants And Bylaws: If common property is to be
deeded to a property owners' association, the covenants and bylaws which govern
the association must, at a minimum, provide for the:
         a.   Formation of a property owners' association concurrently with the
filing of the final subdivision plat. articles of incorporation shall be filed
with the secretary of state's office;
         b.   Mandatory membership for each property owner. Purchasers of
property may also be required to sign a waiver of right to protest the
formation of a maintenance district to maintain improvements;
         c.   Perpetual reservation of the common property when required under
section MCA 76-3-621(8)(a);
         d.   Payment of liability insurance premiums, local taxes, and the
cost of maintaining recreational or other facilities;
         e.   Placement of liens on the property of lot owners who are
delinquent in the payment of association fees and assessments;
         f.   Adjustment of assessments to meet changing needs;
         g.   Means of enforcing the covenants, and of receiving and processing
complaints;
         h.   Transition of control of the association from the declarant to
the homeowners;
         i.   Dissolution of the association and modification of the covenants
and restrictions after obtaining the governing body's approval of the change;
and
         j.   Regular maintenance of roads, parks, buildings, drainage
facilities, and other facilities controlled by the association.
      2.   Permanent Care And Maintenance Of Commonly Owned Open Spaces,
Facilities, Streets, etc.: The developer shall submit a legal instrument
setting forth a plan providing for the permanent care and maintenance of
commonly owned open spaces, recreational areas, facilities, private streets,
public and private wells and associated infrastructure, and parking lots. If
the property owners' association fails to install or maintain improvements
according to approved plans, the town may, at its option, complete construction
of improvements and/or maintain improvements. The town's representative,
contractors and engineers shall have the right to enter upon the property and
perform such work, and the property owners' association shall permit and secure
any additional permission required to enable them to do so. The town shall bill
the property owners' association for any costs associated with the installation
or maintenance of improvements.
   D.   Failure To Maintain Common Areas; Notice And Hearing: In the event the
organization or any successor organization established to own and maintain
commonly owned open spaces, recreational areas, facilities, private streets,
and parking lots, shall at any time fail to maintain the common areas or
facilities in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the approved
plan, the town council may cause written notice to be served upon such
organization or upon the owners of property in the development.
      1.   The written notice shall set forth the way the common areas or
facilities have failed to be maintained in reasonable condition. In addition,
the notice shall include the demand that the deficiencies noted be cured within
thirty (30) days thereafter and shall state the date and place of a hearing to
be held within fourteen (14) days of the notice. At the time of hearing, the
town council may modify the terms of the original notice as to deficiencies and
may extend the time within which the same may be cured.
      2.   If the deficiencies set forth in the original notice or
modifications are not cured within the time set, the town may enter upon such
common facilities and maintain the same for a period of one year, to preserve
the taxable values of properties within the development and to prevent the
common facilities from becoming a public nuisance.
      3.   Such entry and maintenance shall not vest in the public any right to
use the common facilities not dedicated to public use. Before the one-year
period expires, the council shall, upon its own initiative or upon written
request of the organization theretofore responsible for maintenance, call a
public hearing and give notice of such hearing to the organization responsible
for maintenance or the property owners of the development. At the hearing, the
organization responsible for maintenance and/or the residents of the
development may show cause why maintenance by the town should not be continued
for a succeeding year. If the town council determines that it is not necessary
for the town to continue such maintenance, the town shall cease such
maintenance at the time established by the town council. Otherwise, the town
shall continue maintenance for the next succeeding year subject to a similar
hearing and determination at the end of each year thereafter.
      4.   The cost of maintenance by the town shall be a lien against the
common facilities of the development and the private properties within the
development. The town council shall have the right to make assessments against
properties, public or private, in the development on the same basis that the
organization responsible for maintenance of the facilities could make such
assessments. Any unpaid assessment shall be a lien against the properties
responsible for the same, enforceable the same as a mortgage against such
property. The town may further foreclose its lien on the common facility or
private property by certifying the same to the county treasurer for collection
as in the case of collection of general property taxes.
      5.   Should the property owners' association request that the town assume
permanent responsibility for maintenance of facilities, all facilities shall be
brought to town standards prior to the town assuming responsibility. The
assumption of responsibility must be by action of the town council and all
costs to bring facilities to town standards shall be the responsibility of the
property owners' association. The town may create special financing mechanisms
so that those properties within the area affected by the property owners'
association continue to bear the costs of maintenance. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-3-9: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT; GUARANTY:
As a condition of approval of the final plat, the subdivider must have
installed all required improvements or have entered into a subdivision
improvements agreement guaranteeing the construction, installation, and
maintenance of all required improvements. No construction or placement of
structures on the lots may occur until improvements related to public health
and safety, such as roads or firefighting facilities, have been installed and
engineering plans have been filed. A model subdivision improvements agreement
can be found on the town website or at town hall. The alternative methods of
guaranteeing public improvements, the procedures, and requirements for securing
an agreement, and suggested conditions for maintenance are set out in section
11-12-2. If the subdivider chooses to enter into a subdivision improvements
agreement, guaranteeing the public improvements through a bond or letter of
credit, three (3) bids for the cost of installation of the public improvements
shall be obtained by the subdivider. The amount of the guarantee shall be one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the highest bid. The bond timeline shall run as
necessary to install all required improvements. The timeline for such bond
shall be reviewed and approved by the town council, town attorney, town
engineer, and other relevant agents as determined by the town council. As the
public improvements are installed, the subdivider shall provide a letter to the
governing body indicating such, and including a copy of the engineered plans.
The town engineer designated by the governing body shall review and certify all
public improvements have been installed in conformance with the plans and
specifications. Prior to the release of the guarantee, a copy of the plans,
stamped by the project surveyor or engineer in accordance with their licensing
provisions, shall be filed in the clerk and recorder's office with reference to
the final subdivision plat. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-3-10: AMENDING APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLATS BEFORE FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   If the subdivider proposes to change the preliminary plat after the
preliminary plat approval but before the final plat approval, the subdivider
shall submit the proposed changes to the subdivision administrator for review.
      1.   Within five (5) working days of receiving the proposed changes, the
subdivision administrator shall determine whether the changes to the
preliminary plat are material.
      2.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are
material, the subdivision administrator shall require the subdivider to begin
the subdivision review process again, starting with the preapplication meeting,
and require payment of a new application fee.
      3.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are not
material, the subdivision administrator shall accept the changes and notify the
subdivider and the governing body of its decision.
   B.   The following changes, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered material:
      1.   Configuration or number of lots;
      2.   Road layout;
      3.   Water and/or septic proposals;
      4.   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
      5.   Easement provisions;
      6.   Designated access; or
      7.   Change to conditions of approval.
   C.   A subdivider whose proposed changes to the preliminary plat have been
deemed material by the subdivision administrator may appeal the subdivision
administrator's decision to the governing body by written notice within ten
(10) working days. The subdivider may request a hearing, and may submit
additional evidence to show that the changes to the preliminary plat are not
material.
   D.   If the subdivider and subdivision administrator determine that a
condition of approval is illegal or impossible to comply with due to
circumstances outside the subdivider's control, economic hardship
notwithstanding, the condition may be reviewed by the governing body through a
properly noticed public hearing to determine if the condition may be waived or
amended. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 4
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Preliminary Plats
11-4-1-1: Application Forms
11-4-1-2: Review Fees
11-4-1-3: Submittal
11-4-1-4: Public Hearings
11-4-1-5: Review
11-4-1-6: Approval, Conditional Approval, Or Disapproval
11-4-1-7: Approval Period
11-4-1-8: Amended Applications
11-4-1-9: Final Plats
11-4-1-10: Restrictive Covenants; Approval, Content And Enforcement By
Governing Body
11-4-1-11: Public Improvements Agreement; Guaranty
11-4-1-12: Amending Approved Preliminary Plats Before Final Plat Approval
11-4-1: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Subdivisions that qualify for major subdivision review are those divisions of
land containing six (6) or more lots, or subdivisions of five (5) or fewer lots
that do not otherwise qualify for review as first minor subdivisions under MCA
76-3-609 and this title.
The preapplication process and initial review process set forth in chapter 3,
"General Procedures", of this title apply to this chapter. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-4-1-1: APPLICATION FORMS:
The preliminary plat application form must be completed and signed by the
owners of record and subdivider. The application can be found on the town's
website or at town hall. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-2: REVIEW FEES:
   A.   The required review fee as presented in the fee schedule shall be paid
when the application is submitted. All checks shall be payable to the town. All
review fees are nonrefundable.
   B.   If additional costs of review are incurred by the town after the
application is submitted, the town shall bill the applicant for the additional
review costs, including, but not limited to, all consultant costs and fees;
costs and expenses incurred in conducting all public hearings; costs and fees
for examining the application and its contents; and the costs of mailing,
posting and publication of all necessary notices. Consultants may consist of
architects, attorneys, planners, land surveyors, engineers, and title examiners
as may be necessary to process the application.
   C.   If the bill for costs and fees is not paid to the town within thirty
(30) days of billing, the amount due shall become a lien on the property that
is the subject of the review. If, after a lien is filed on the property and the
bill remains unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days, the town may, at its sole
discretion, bring an action to foreclose the lien in accordance with MCA 71-3-
124. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-3: SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Time Of Submittal; Number Of Copies: One (1) copy of the completed
application form and all required documents of the preliminary plat together
with the appropriate review fee and one (1) copy of the preliminary plat in
twenty-four inches by thirty-six-inch (24" x 36") format, and an electronic
copy of all documents shall be submitted to the town clerk in accordance with
any deadlines established for submittal. All preliminary plat submissions must
conform to the procedures and standards contained in this title.
   B.   Required Information: The subdivider shall submit to the governing
body, or to the agent or agency designated by the governing body, a subdivision
application addressing these topics and containing the following information,
materials, and supplements, all described in more detail in Manhattan major
subdivision plat application administrative materials "A" provided by the
subdivision administrator, as applicable:
      1.   A completed and signed subdivision application form;
      2.   The required review fee;
      3.   A preliminary plat at a scale sufficient to legibly represent the
required data on the plat. The plat size shall be twenty-four inches by thirty-
six inches (24" x 36"). The preliminary plat shall conform to the design
standards set forth in chapter 6 of this title and shall contain the
information required by this title:
         a.   Name and location of the subdivision, scale, bar, north arrow,
and date of preparation.
         b.   The exterior boundaries of the tract and the location of all
section corners or legal subdivision corners of sections pertinent to the
subdivision boundary. If available, the names of plats and certificate of
survey numbers previously recorded adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
         c.   All lots and blocks, designated by numbers, and the dimensions
and area of each lot.
         d.   All streets, alleys, avenues, roads and highways, and the width
of the rights of way, grades, and curvature of each with existing and proposed
street names, and proposed locations of intersections or other access points
for any subdivision requiring access to arterial or collector highways.
         e.   The approximate location, boundaries, dimensions and areas of any
parks, schools, common grounds, or other grounds dedicated for public use.
         f.   Any existing and proposed utilities located on or adjacent to the
tract including:
            (1)   The approximate location, size and depth of water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, and fire hydrants.
            (2)   The approximate location of nearest water mains and sewer
lines where none are located on or adjacent to the tract.
            (3)   The approximate location of gas, electric and telephone
lines, and streetlights.
         g.   The approximate location of existing buildings, structures,
railroads, and improvements.
         h.   The approximate location and identity of all existing easements
and rights of way of record and proposed public and private easements and
rights of way on or adjacent to the tract, including description of their width
and purpose.
         i.   The location and description of all existing agricultural water
user facilities on or adjacent to the tract;
      4.   A vicinity map;
      5.   A topographic map;
      6.   Adjacent Property Owners: A certified list of names and addresses of
owners of record and purchasers under contract for deed of adjacent property.
      7.   A grading and drainage plan A complete grading and drainage plan
with accurate dimensions, course, and elevations, showing the proposed grades
of streets, bridges, ditches, culverts, and other drainage improvements;
      8.   Engineering plans for all public and private improvements;
      9.   Overall development plan if development is in phases;
      10.   Abstract of title (or title report);
      11.   Lien holders' acknowledgment of subdivision;
      12.   Documentation of legal and physical access;
      13.   Documentation of existing easements, including those for
agricultural water user facilities;
      14.   Existing covenants and deed restrictions;
      15.   Existing water rights to include adequate and legal water rights;
      16.   Existing mineral rights;
      17.   Proposed road plans and profiles;
      18.   Encroachment permits from Montana department of transportation or
the local jurisdiction (if required);
      19.   Proposed easements;
      20.   Proposed disposition of water rights to include the proposed use of
the water and the proposed water supply source;
      21.   Proposed disposition of mineral rights;
      22.   Park land dedication calculations;
      23.   Environmental assessment and/or summary of probable impacts;
         a.   Required: An environmental assessment shall accompany the
preliminary plat unless the subdivider has been exempted. Section 11-12-1-1of
this title provides the format of and questions to be addressed in the
environmental assessment.
         b.   Waived By Planning Board: The requirement for preparing an
environmental assessment pursuant to MCA 76-3-504(1), shall be waived by the
planning board when:
            (1)   The proposed subdivision is totally within an area covered by
the master plan adopted pursuant to MCA 76-1-606;
            (2)   Municipal zoning regulations have been adopted pursuant to
MCA 76-2-301 through MCA 76-2-328; and
            (3)   A long-range development program of the public works projects
including a capital improvements plan, has been adopted pursuant to MCA 76-1-
601(4).
         c.   Statement: When such an exemption is granted, the planning board
shall prepare and certify a written statement of the reasons for granting the
exemption. A copy of this statement shall accompany the preliminary plat of the
subdivision when it is submitted for review.
      24.   Transportation impact analysis or transportation plan;
      25.   Fire risk rating analysis and fire prevention plan;
      26.   Weed management plan and revegetation plan;
      27.   Property owners' association documents, including draft articles of
incorporation, declaration, and bylaws;
      28.   Covenants And Restrictions: Drafts of any covenants and
restrictions to be included in deeds or contracts for sales:
      29.   FIRM or FEMA panel map and letter identifying floodplain status,
unless provided by the Town;
      30.   Required water and sanitation information;
      31.   A form of subdivision improvements agreement, if proposed;
      32.   Letter requesting a revocation of agricultural covenants;
      33.   Letter indicating locations of cultural or historic resources;
      34.   Variance request or approval (if required);
      35.   Rezoning application or approval (if required);
      36.   Flood hazard evaluation (if required);
      37.   Letter identifying and proposing mitigation for potential hazards
or other adverse impacts as identified in the preapplication meeting and not
covered by any of the above required materials; and
      38.   Such additional relevant and reasonable information as identified
by the subdivision administrator during the preapplication meeting that is
pertinent to the required elements of this section.
   C.   Overall Development Plan:
      1.   Phased Development: When a tract of land is to be subdivided in
phases, the subdivider must provide an overall development plan indicating
intent for the entire development.
      2.   Based On Overall Plan: The preliminary plat submission,
environmental assessment, and other supplements must include the entire
development and follow the procedures and standards contained in this title and
plat review will be based on the overall development plan.
   D.   Review And Approval Period: Within sixty (60) working days or eighty
(80) working days if the proposed subdivision contains fifty (50) or more lots,
the town council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed
subdivision in accordance with this title, unless the subdivider and the
subdivision administrator agree to an extension or suspension of the review
period, or a subsequent public hearing is held pursuant to this title. A
subdivision application is deemed submitted for review, and the sixty (60)
working day period begins when the subdivision administrator notifies the
subdivider or the subdivider's agent in writing that the application contains
sufficient information to conduct the review.
   E.   Withdrawal Of Application: An application may be withdrawn, in writing
or statement given at a public hearing, by the owners of record and subdividers
at any time during the review process. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-4: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearings: The planning board and the governing body shall each hold a
public hearing on the subdivision application when a hearing is required by
these regulations.
   B.   Notice:
      1.   Publication: The planning board and governing body shall give notice
of times, dates, and locations of the hearings by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the hearings.
      2.   Certified Mail: The subdivider, each property owner of record, and
each purchaser under contract for deed adjoining the land included in the plat
shall be notified of the hearing by certified mail not less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the date of the hearings.
      3.   Posted Notice: A notice of the public hearing shall be posted at
conspicuous places on the proposed site by the subdivider. The town shall place
notice in conspicuous places around town to inform the public.
   C.   Planning Board Hearing: After the subdivision application is deemed to
have all the required elements and contain detailed, supporting information
that is sufficient to allow for review, and the subdivision administrator has
prepared a staff report, the planning board shall schedule and hold a public
hearing on the subdivision application. At the public hearing the planning
board shall recommend approval, denial, or approval with conditions to the town
council. The planning board shall add any conditions to the application that is
necessary to mitigate impacts to the criteria contained in MCA 76-3-608.
   D.   Town Council Hearing: After the planning board makes its
recommendation, the governing body shall hold a public hearing on the
subdivision application. Comments and documents regarding the subdivision shall
be submitted to the subdivision administrator, rather than to the governing
body directly, to be forwarded to the governing body. At the public hearing the
town council shall approve, deny, or approve with conditions the application.
The town council shall add any conditions to the application that is necessary
to mitigate impacts to the criteria contained in MCA 76-3-608.
   E.   Presentation Of New Information:
      1.   The governing body shall determine whether public comments or other
information presented to the governing body at a hearing held pursuant to MCA
76-3-605 constitutes relevant, new information regarding a subdivision
application or a substantial change to the design of the subdivision that has
never been submitted as evidence or considered by either the governing body or
its agent or agency and has a substantial effect on the governing body's
consideration of the application.
      2.   If the governing body determines that the information presented to
the governing body constitutes the information described in subsection
11-4-1-4 -E-1, the governing body may:
         a.   approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision
without basing its decision on the new information if the governing body
determines that the new information is either irrelevant or not credible or the
change to the design of the subdivision does not substantially impact the
analysis of potentially significant adverse impacts; or
         b.   schedule or direct its agent or agency to schedule a subsequent
public hearing for consideration of only the new information, including a
substantial change to the design of the subdivision for purposes of considering
its findings of fact and conclusions and any proposed conditions of approval
considering the new information that the governing body will rely on in making
its decision on the proposed subdivision.
      3.   If a public hearing is held as provided in subsection
11-4-1-4 -E-2-b, the sixty (60) working-day review period required in MCA 76-3-
604(4) is suspended and the new hearing must be noticed and held within forty-
five (45) days of the governing body's determination to schedule a new hearing.
After the new hearing, the sixty (60) working-day time limit resumes at the
governing body's next scheduled public meeting for which proper notice for the
public hearing on the subdivision application can be provided. The governing
body may not consider any information regarding the subdivision application
that is presented after the hearing when making its decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision.
         a.   Notice of the time, date and location of the subsequent hearing
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the subsequent
hearing.
         b.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the subsequent
hearing, notice of the subsequent hearing shall be given by certified mail to
the subdivider, each adjoining landowner to the land included in the
preliminary plat, and each purchaser under contract for deed of property
immediately adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat.
         c.   The governing body shall require that notice be posted at a
conspicuous place on the site of the proposed subdivision. The town shall place
notice in conspicuous places around town to inform the public. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-4-1-5: REVIEW:
   A.   The basis for the governing body's decision to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny a proposed subdivision is whether the subdivision application,
preliminary plat, applicable environmental assessment, public hearing, planning
board recommendations, or additional information demonstrates that development
of the proposed subdivision meets the requirements of this chapter. A governing
body may not deny approval of a proposed subdivision based solely on the
subdivision's impacts on educational services or based solely on parcels within
the subdivision having been designated as wildland-urban interface parcels
under 76-13-145.
      1.   The governing body shall issue written findings of fact that weigh
the criteria in subsection
11-4-1-5 -(2), as applicable.
      2.   A subdivision proposal must undergo review for the following primary
criteria:
         a.   Except when the governing body has established an exemption or
except as provided in MCA 76-3-509, 76-3-609(2) or (4), or 76-3-616, the
specific, documentable, and clearly defined impact on agriculture, agricultural
water user facilities, local services, the natural environment, wildlife,
wildlife habitat, and public health and safety, excluding any consideration of
whether the proposed subdivision will result in a loss of agricultural soils;
         b.   Compliance With:
            (1)   The survey requirements provided for in MCA;
            (2)   The local subdivision regulations provided; and
            (3)   The local subdivision review procedure provided for in this
part;
            (4)   The provision of easements within and to the proposed
subdivision for the location and installation of any planned utilities; and
            (5)   The provision of legal and physical access to each parcel
within the proposed subdivision and the required notation of that access on the
applicable plat and any instrument of transfer concerning the parcel.
   B.   The governing body may require the subdivider to design the proposed
subdivision to reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse impacts
identified through the review required under subsection
11-4-1-4 -E-2 but may not require a set-aside of land or monetary contribution
for the loss of agricultural soils. Pursuant to MCA 76-3-620, the governing
body shall issue written findings to justify the reasonable mitigation required
under this subsection (2).
   C.   In reviewing a proposed subdivision under section
11-4-1-4 -E-2 and when requiring mitigation under
11-4-1-4 -E-2, a governing body may not unreasonably restrict a landowner's
ability to develop land, but it is recognized that in some instances the
impacts of a proposed development may be deemed unmitigable and will preclude
approval of the subdivision.
      1.   When requiring mitigation under section
11-4-1-4 -E-2 and consistent with MCA 76-3-620, a governing body shall consult
with the subdivider and shall give due weight and consideration to the
expressed preference of the subdivider.
   D.   A governing body may conditionally approve or deny a proposed
subdivision as a result of the water and sanitation information provided
pursuant to MCA 76-3-622 or public comment received pursuant to MCA 76-3-604 on
the information provided pursuant to MCA 76-3-622 only if the conditional
approval or denial is based on existing subdivision, zoning, or other
regulations that the governing body has the authority to enforce.
   E.   A governing body may not require as a condition of subdivision approval
that a property owner waive a right to protest the creation of a special
improvement district or a rural improvement district for capital improvement
projects that does not identify the specific capital improvements for which
protest is being waived. A waiver of a right to protest may not be valid for a
period longer than twenty (20) years after the date that the final subdivision
plat is filed with the county clerk and recorder.
   F.   A governing body may not approve a proposed subdivision if any of the
features and improvements of the subdivision encroach onto adjoining private
property without a valid easement or other legally binding agreement or if the
well isolation zone of any proposed well to be drilled for the proposed
subdivision encroaches onto adjoining private property unless the owner of the
private property authorizes the encroachment. For the purposes of this section,
"well isolation zone" has the meaning provided in MCA 76-4-102.
   G.   If a federal or state governmental entity submits a written or oral
comment or an opinion regarding wildlife, wildlife habitat, or the natural
environment relating to a subdivision application for the purpose of assisting
a governing body's review, the comment or opinion may be included in the
governing body's written statement under MCA 76-3-620 only if the comment or
opinion provides scientific information or a published study that supports the
comment or opinion. A governmental entity that is or has been involved to
acquire or assist others in acquiring an interest in the real property
identified in the subdivision application shall disclose that the entity has
been involved in that effort prior to submitting a comment, an opinion, or
information as provided in this subsection.
   H.   Findings of fact by the governing body concerning whether the
development of the proposed subdivision meets the requirements of this chapter
must be based on the record. The governing body's findings of fact must be
sustained unless they are arbitrary, capricious, or unlawful. (Ord. 24-007, 12-
11-2024)
11-4-1-6: APPROVAL, CONDITIONAL APPROVAL, OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Action By Town Council: The town council shall approve, conditionally
approve, or disapproves the preliminary plat within sixty (60) working days of
determination of sufficiency for review, unless the subdivider consents to an
extension of the review period. If the town council disapproves or
conditionally approves the preliminary plat, it shall forward one copy of the
plat to the subdivider accompanied by a letter over the appropriate signature
stating the reason for disapproval or enumerating the conditions that must be
met to assure approval of the final plat.
   B.   Basis For Decision: The basis for the town council's decision to
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a subdivision shall be whether
the preliminary plat and supplements; environmental assessment; planner's
report; planning board recommendations; and additional information demonstrates
that development of the subdivision would meet the requirements of the MSPA,
these regulations, the Manhattan city-county growth policy, zoning regulations,
and this code.
      1.   Prerequisites To Approval: The governing body may not approve or
conditionally approve a subdivision application and preliminary plat unless the
proposed subdivision:
         a.   Provides easements for the location and installation of any
planned utilities;
         b.   Provides legal and physical access to each parcel within the
subdivision and the notation of that access on the applicable plat and any
instrument transferring the parcel;
         c.   Provides adequate and legal water rights;
         d.   Assures that all required public or private improvements will be
installed before final plat approval, or that their installation after final
plat approval will be guaranteed as provided by these regulations;
         e.   Assures that the requirements of MCA 76-3-504(1)(j) regarding the
disclosure and disposition of water rights have been considered and will be
accomplished before the final plat is submitted;
         f.   Assures that the requirements of MCA 76-3-504(1)(k) regarding
watercourse and irrigation easements have been considered and will be
accomplished before the final plat is submitted; and
         g.   Provides for the appropriate park dedication or cash in lieu.
      2.   Consideration; Standards: In approving, conditionally approving, or
denying a subdivision application and preliminary plat, the governing body
shall consider the prerequisites above, and whether the proposed subdivision
complies with:
         a.   These regulations, including, but not limited to, the standards
set forth in chapter 6 of this title;
         b.   Applicable zoning regulations;
         c.   Other applicable regulations;
         d.   The MSPA, including, but not limited to, the following impacts
and proposed mitigation strategies:
            (1)   Impact on agriculture;
            (2)   Impact on agricultural water user facilities;
            (3)   Impact on local services;
            (4)   Impact on the natural environment;
            (5)   Impact on wildlife;
            (6)   Impact on wildlife habitat;
            (7)   Impact on public health and safety; and
      3.   Consideration; Evidence: In making its decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny a proposed subdivision, the governing body may
consider and weigh the following, as applicable:
         a.   The subdivision application and preliminary plat;
         b.   The environmental assessment;
         c.   The summary of probable impacts and mitigation;
         d.   An officially adopted growth policy;
         e.   Comments, evidence, and discussions at the public hearing(s);
         f.   Subdivision administrator's staff report and recommendations;
         g.   Planning board recommendation; and
         h.   Any additional information authorized by law.
      4.   No Information Considered After Final Public Hearing:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the governing body may not consider any
information regarding the subdivision application that is presented after the
final public hearing (which may include a subsequent hearing if any) when
making its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed
subdivision.
   C.   Findings Of Fact: In rendering its decision to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the proposed subdivision, the town council shall issue a
written findings of fact that discusses and weighs the proposed subdivision's
compliance with this code and the MSPA.
   D.   Inaccurate Information; Withdrawal Of Approval: The town council may
withdraw approval of a plat if it determines that information provided by the
subdivider, and upon which such decision was based, is inaccurate.
   E.   Written Statement: When a preliminary plat is approved, denied, or
conditionally approved, the Town shall provide the subdivider a written
statement, with appropriate signature, and make the written statement available
to the public. The written statement shall:
      1.   Contain information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identify the regulations and statutes that are used in reaching the
decision to approve, deny, or impose conditions and explain how they apply to
the decision;
      3.   Provide the facts and conclusions that the governing body relied
upon in making its decision and reference documents, testimony, or other
materials that form the basis of the decision;
      4.   Provide the conditions that apply to the preliminary plat approval
and that must be satisfied before the final plat may be approved; and
      5.   Set forth the time limit for approval.
   F.   Water And Sanitation; Special Rules:
      1.   Water and sanitation information provided during the application
review process, including public comment, may be used as a basis for a
conditional approval or denial of a subdivision only if the governing body
finds that the application does not comply with previously adopted subdivision,
zoning, floodplain, or other regulations.
      2.   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing less than twenty (20) acres, the governing body shall require
approval by the DEQ as a condition of approval of the final plat. This approval
applies to the development of lots at the time of the approval and is no
guarantee that a source of water or a location for a septic system or drain
fields will be available when the lots are developed.
      3.   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing twenty (20) acres or more, the governing body shall condition
approval of the final plat upon the subdivider demonstrating that there is an
adequate water source and at least one area for a septic system and a
replacement drain field for each lot. Septic systems are only allowed for
commercial subdivisions within town limits. Residential projects in the UGA and
PJA may propose the use of septic systems. This demonstration to the local
reviewing authority is to evaluate the ability to develop lots at the platting
stage and is no guarantee that a source of water or a location for a septic
system or drain fields will be available when the lots are developed.
      4.   The governing body shall collect public comments submitted regarding
water and sanitation information and shall make any comments submitted or a
summary of the comments submitted available to the subdivider within thirty
(30) days after conditional approval or approval of the subdivision application
and preliminary plat.
      5.   The subdivider shall, as part of the subdivider's application for
sanitation approval, forward the comments or the summary provided by the
governing body to the:
         a.   Reviewing authority provided in MCA, title 76, chapter 4, for
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing less than twenty
(20) acres; and
         b.   Local health department or board of health for proposed
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing twenty (20) acres
or more and less than one hundred sixty (160) acres. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-7: APPROVAL PERIOD:
   A.   Statement Of Approval: Upon approving or conditionally approving a
preliminary plat, the town council shall provide the subdivider with a dated
and signed statement of approval. This approval shall be in force for not more
than three (3) calendar years.
   B.   Extension: At the end of this period, the town council may, at the
written request of the subdivider at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the preliminary plat approval. If the applicant fails to petition
the town thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date the applicant must
restart the process and submit a new application. The town council may extend
its approval for a period of no more than one (1) year, except that the town
council may extend its approval for a period of more than one (1) year if that
approval period is included as a specific condition of a written subdivision
improvements agreement between the town and the subdivider or there is
reasonable evidence that something outside of the subdividers control shall
delay the project beyond a calendar year.
   C.   Additional Conditions: After the preliminary plat is approved, the town
council may not impose any additional conditions as a prerequisite to final
plat approval providing said approval is obtained within the original or
extended approval period. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-8: AMENDED APPLICATIONS:
   A.   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application or preliminary
plat after the subdivision administrator approves sufficiency but before the
planning board hearing, the subdivider shall submit the amended application to
the subdivision administrator for review.
      1.   Within five (5) working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the subdivision administrator shall determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat are material.
      2.   The sixty (60) working day review period is suspended while the
subdivision administrator considers whether the changes to the subdivision
application or preliminary plat are material.
      3.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are not
material, the sixty (60) working day review period resumes when the subdivision
administrator provides notice of the decision to the subdivider.
      4.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are
material, the subdivision administrator shall either require the subdivider to
schedule a new preapplication meeting and resubmit the application as a new
subdivision application or proceed with the sixty (60) working day review
period upon certification from the subdivision administrator that the
application is sufficient for review.
   B.   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application or preliminary
plat after the planning board hearing but before the governing body hearing,
the subdivider shall submit the amended application or preliminary plat to the
subdivision administrator for review.
      1.   Within five (5) working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the subdivision administrator shall determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat are material.
      2.   The sixty (60) working day review period is suspended while the
subdivision administrator considers whether the changes to the subdivision
application or preliminary plat are material.
      3.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are not
material, the sixty (60) working day review period resumes when the subdivision
administrator provides notice of the decision to the subdivider.
      4.   If the subdivision administrator determines the changes are
material, the subdivision administrator shall either:
         a.   Require the subdivider to begin the subdivision review process
again, starting with the preapplication meeting, and require payment of a new
application fee; or
         b.   Schedule a new planning board hearing to take comment on the
amended application or preliminary plat. Notice of the subdivision
administrator's determination to schedule a new planning board hearing shall be
provided. A supplemental staff report shall be prepared to address the changes
to the original application.
      5.   If a new planning board hearing is held, the sixty (60) working day
review period is suspended for the time between notice of the subdivision
administrator's determination and ten (10) working days after the date of the
second planning board hearing.
   C.   Material changes are considered the following, although not an
exhaustive list:
      1.   Configuration;
      2.   Increase in the density or number of lots;
      3.   Road layout;
      4.   Water and/or septic proposals;
      5.   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
      6.   Easement provisions; and
      7.   Designated access.
   D.   By making changes to a pending subdivision application or preliminary
plat, the subdivider consents to suspension of the review period as provided
above.
   E.   A subdivider whose subdivision application or preliminary plat has been
deemed materially changed by the subdivision administrator may appeal the
subdivision administrator's decision to the governing body by written notice
within ten (10) working days. The subdivider may request a hearing, and may
submit additional evidence to show that the changes to the preliminary plat are
not material.
      1.   The sixty (60) working day review period is suspended until the
governing body decision on the appeal is made.
      2.   If the governing body concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are material, the governing body shall determine whether the subdivision
application should be resubmitted or scheduled for rehearing in front of the
planning board.
      3.   If the governing body concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are not material, the sixty (60) working day review period resumes as of the
date of the decision.
      4.   By appealing the decision of the subdivision administrator, the
subdivider agrees to suspension of the sixty (60) working day review period
provided above. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-9:   FINAL PLATS:
The final plat shall be in accordance with the appropriate procedural
requirements contained in section
11-3-7  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-10:   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS; APPROVAL, CONTENT AND ENFORCEMENT BY
GOVERNING BODY:
The restrictive covenants shall be in accordance with the requirements
contained in section
11-3-8  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-11:   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT; GUARANTY:
The public improvements agreement and guaranty shall be in accordance with the
requirements contained in section
11-3-9  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-4-1-12:   AMENDING APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLATS BEFORE FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
Any proposal to amend a preliminary plat before final plat approval shall be in
accordance with the requirements contained in section
11-3-10  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 5
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Preliminary Plats
11-5-1-1: Submission
11-5-1-2: Review Fee
11-5-1-3: Plat Review
11-5-1-4: Approval Period
11-5-2: Final Plats
11-5-2-1: Restrictive Covenants; Approval, Content And Enforcement By Governing
Body
11-5-2-2: Public Improvements Agreement; Guaranty
11-5-2-3: Amending Approved Preliminary Plats Before Final Plat Approval
11-5-1: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
   A.   First Minor Subdivision: A "first minor subdivision" is any proposed
minor subdivision from a tract of record that has not been subdivided or
created by a subdivision under the MSPA, or has not resulted from a tract of
record that has had more than five (5) parcels created from that tract of
record under MCA 76-3-201 or MCA 76-3-207, since October 1st, 2003. First minor
subdivisions shall be reviewed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Subsequent Minor Subdivisions: A "subsequent minor subdivision" is any
subdivision with five (5) or fewer lots that is not a first minor subdivision.
Subsequent minor subdivisions shall be reviewed as major subdivisions under
chapter 4 of this title unless exempted under section
11-5-1 -B-1. All the requirements and procedures of major subdivisions must be
followed for subsequent minor subdivisions. However, a park dedication is not
required.
      1.   Subsequent minors that meet the following criteria are reviewed
pursuant to chapter 11 of this title:
         a.   Are in a zoned area;
         b.   Has a will-serve letter from water and sewer system;
         c.   Has existing legal and physical access to each lot; and
         d.   Does not require a variance to subdivision regulations.
   C.   Preapplication And Initial Review Process: The preapplication process
and initial review process set forth in chapter 3, "General Procedures", of
this title apply to this chapter. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-1-1: SUBMISSION:
   A.   Time Of Submittal; Number Of Copies: An application for a minor
subdivision plat and all required documents together with the review fee, one
(1) copy of the preliminary plat in twenty-four inches by thirty-six-inch (24"
x 36") format, one (1) copies of plat supplements, and one (1) electronic copy
of all documents shall be submitted to town hall in accordance with any
deadlines established for submittal.
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   A completed and signed subdivision application form;
      2.   The required review fee;
      3.   A preliminary plat at a scale sufficient to legibly represent the
required data on the plat. The plat size shall be twenty-four inches by thirty-
six inches (24" x 36"). The preliminary plat shall conform to the design
standards set forth in chapter 6 of this title and shall contain the
information required by this title:
         a.   Name and location of the subdivision, scale, bar, north arrow,
and date of preparation.
         b.   The exterior boundaries of the tract and the location of all
section corners or legal subdivision corners of sections pertinent to the
subdivision boundary. If available, the names of plats and certificate of
survey numbers previously recorded adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
         c.   All lots and blocks, designated by numbers, and the dimensions
and area of each lot.
         d.   All streets, alleys, avenues, roads and highways, and the width
of the rights of way, grades, and curvature of each with existing and proposed
street names, and proposed locations of intersections or other access points
for any subdivision requiring access to arterial or collector highways.
         e.   The approximate location, boundaries, dimensions and areas of any
parks, schools, common grounds, or other grounds dedicated for public use.
         f.   Any existing and proposed utilities located on or adjacent to the
tract including:
            (1)   The approximate location, size and depth of water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, and fire hydrants.
            (2)   The approximate location of nearest water mains and sewer
lines where none are located on or adjacent to the tract.
            (3)   The approximate location of gas, electric and telephone
lines, and streetlights.
         g.   The approximate location of existing buildings, structures,
railroads, and improvements.
         h.   The approximate location and identity of all existing easements
and rights of way of record and proposed public and private easements and
rights of way on or adjacent to the tract, including description of their width
and purpose.
         i.   The location and description of all existing agricultural water
user facilities on or adjacent to the tract;
      4.   A vicinity map;
      5.   A topographic map;
      6.   Adjacent Property Owners: A certified list of names and addresses of
owners of record and purchasers under contract for deed of adjacent property.
      7.   A grading and drainage plan A complete grading and drainage plan
with accurate dimensions, course, and elevations, showing the proposed grades
of streets, bridges, ditches, culverts, and other drainage improvements;
      8.   Engineering plans for all public and private improvements;
      9.   Overall development plan if development is in phases;
      10.   Abstract of title (or title report);
      11.   Lien holders' acknowledgement of subdivision;
      12.   Documentation of legal and physical access;
      13.   Documentation of existing easements, including those for
agricultural water user facilities;
      14.   Existing covenants and deed restrictions;
      15.   Existing water rights;
      16.   Existing mineral rights;
      17.   Proposed road plans and profiles;
      18.   Encroachment permits from Montana department of transportation or
the local jurisdiction (if required);
      19.   Proposed easements;
      20.   Proposed disposition of water rights and proof of adequate water
supply for the proposed development;
      21.   Proposed disposition of mineral rights;
      22.   Transportation impact analysis or transportation plan;
      23.   Fire risk rating analysis and fire prevention plan;
      24.   Weed management plan and revegetation plan;
      25.   Property owners' association documents, including draft articles of
incorporation, declaration, and bylaws;
      26.   Covenants And Restrictions: Drafts of any covenants and
restrictions to be included in deeds or contracts for sales.
      27.   FIRM or FEMA panel map and letter identifying floodplain status,
unless provided by the town;
      28.   Required water and sanitation information;
      29.   A form of subdivision improvements agreement, if proposed;
      30.   Letter requesting a revocation of agricultural covenants;
      31.   Letter indicating locations of cultural or historic resources;
      32.   Variance request or approval (if required);
      33.   Rezoning application or approval (if required);
      34.   Flood hazard evaluation (if required);
      35.   Letter identifying and proposing mitigation for potential hazards
or other adverse impacts as identified in the preapplication meeting and not
covered by any of the above required materials; and
      36.   Such additional relevant and reasonable information as identified
by the subdivision administrator during the preapplication meeting that is
pertinent to the required elements of this section.
      37.   Sufficient documentary evidence from the public records
demonstrating that the subdivision will be the first minor subdivision from a
tract of record. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-1-2: REVIEW FEE:
The required review fee as presented in the fee schedule shall be paid when the
application is submitted. All checks shall be payable to the town. All review
fees are nonrefundable. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-1-3: PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   If the proposed subdivision is a first minor subdivision from a tract
of record and, when legal and physical access to all lots is provided, must be
reviewed as follows:
      1.   The governing body shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
first minor subdivision from a tract of record within thirty (35) working days
of a determination by the reviewing agent or agency that the application
contains required elements and sufficient information for review. The
determination and notification to the subdivider must be made in the same
manner as is provided in MCA 76-3-604(1) through (3).
      2.   The subdivider and the reviewing agent or agency may agree to an
extension or suspension of the review period, not to exceed one (1) year.
      3.   An application must include a summary of the probable impacts of the
proposed subdivision based on the criteria described in MCA 76-3-608(3).
      4.   The following requirements do not apply to the first minor
subdivision or a subsequent minor that meets section
11-5-1 -B-1 from a tract of record as provided:
         a.   The requirement to prepare an environmental assessment; and
         b.   The requirement to review the subdivision for the criteria
contained in MCA 76-3-608(3)(a) if the minor subdivision is proposed in the
portion of a jurisdictional area that has adopted zoning regulations that
address the criteria in MCA 76-3-608(3)(a).
      5.   The governing body or its authorized agent or agency may not hold a
public hearing or a subsequent public hearing under MCA 76-3-615 for a first
minor subdivision from a tract of record.
      6.   The governing body may adopt regulations that establish requirements
for the expedited review of the first minor subdivision from a tract of record.
The following apply to a proposed subdivision reviewed under the regulations:
         a.   Except as provided in section
11-5-1-3 -A, the provisions of MCA 76-3-608(3); and
         b.   The provisions of title 76, chapter 4, part 1, whenever approval
is required by those provisions.
   B.   Except as provided in MCA 76-3-616, any minor subdivision that is not a
first minor subdivision from a tract of record or a subsequent minor meeting
the criteria of section
11-5-1 -B-1, is a subsequent minor subdivision and must be reviewed as provided
in chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   Review and approval, conditional approval, or denial of a subdivision
under this chapter may occur only under those regulations in effect at the time
that a subdivision application is determined to contain sufficient information
for review.
      1.   If regulations change during the period that the application is
reviewed for required elements and sufficient information, the determination of
whether the application contains the required elements and sufficient
information must be based on the new regulations.
   D.   First and subsequent minor subdivisions must be reviewed using the
administrative process provided for in subsection
11-5-1-3 -E if the proposed subdivision:
      1.   Is in an area that is subject to and complies with zoning
regulations adopted pursuant to title 76, chapter 2, part 2 or 3, that, at a
minimum, address development intensity through densities, bulk, and dimensional
requirements, and use standards;
      2.   Has a will-serve letter from a municipal water and sewer service or
by a county water and/or sewer district created under MCA 7-13-2203 that
supplies both water and sewer services;
      3.   Has existing legal and physical access to each lot; and
      4.   Does not require a variance to any of the contents of the
subdivision regulations required in MCA 76-3-504(1)(g).
   E.   An administrative minor subdivision meeting the requirements of
subsection
11-5-1-3 -F is exempt from:
      1.   Submitting the summary of probable impacts based on criteria
described in MCA 76- 3-608(3) and the environmental assessment required in MCA
76-3-603;
      2.   The review criteria described in MCA 76-3-608(3)(a); and
      3.   The requirements of subsections (A) through (F) of section
11-5-1-3 .
   F.   For administrative minor subdivisions, the subdivision administrator
appointed by the governing body shall:
      1.   Assume all decision-making authority of the governing body provided
in MCA 76-3- 608;
      2.   Approve, conditionally approve, or deny an administrative minor
subdivision and issue a written statement pursuant to MCA 76-3-620 within
thirty (30) working days of a determination by the reviewing agent or agency
that the application contains required elements and sufficient information for
review as provided in MCA 76-3-604(1) through (3); and
      3.   Immediately on a determination that the application meets the
requirements of MCA 76-3-604(1) through (3), notify by first-class mail of the
pending application:
         a.   Each property owner of record whose property is immediately
adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat; and
         b.   Each purchaser under contract for deed of property immediately
adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat.
      4.   If a party identified in MCA 76-3-625(3) objects to a subdivision
administrator's decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an
administrative minor subdivision, the party may request in writing that the
subdivision administrator forward the application on to the governing body. The
governing body shall sustain the subdivision administrator's decision based on
the record unless the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or unlawful. The
governing body has fifteen (15) working days from the receipt of the request to
review a decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the administrative
minor subdivision and make a final determination.
   G.   As used in this section, "administrative minor subdivision" means a
subdivision meeting the requirements of section
11-5-1-3 -D and
11-5-1 -B-1. All the requirements of title 76, chapter 3, except those exempt
in subsections
11-5-1-3 -E and F, apply to an administrative minor subdivision. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-5-1-6: APPROVAL PERIOD:
Upon approving or conditionally approving a preliminary plat, the town or
subdivision administrator shall provide the subdivider with a dated and signed
statement of approval. This approval shall be in force for not more than one
(1) calendar year. At the end of this period, the town may, at the request of
the subdivider, extend its approval for no more than one (1) calendar year. If
the subdivider does not extend the application per this title they have waived
the right to an extension. The town may, however, extend its approval for a
period of more than one (1) calendar year if that approval period is included
as a specific condition of subdivision improvements agreement between the town
and the subdivider or there is reasonable evidence that something outside of
the subdividers control shall delay the project beyond a calendar year. (Ord.
24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-2: FINAL PLATS:
The final plat shall be in accordance with the appropriate procedural
requirements contained in section
11-3-7  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-2-1: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS; APPROVAL, CONTENT AND ENFORCEMENT BY GOVERNING
BODY:
The restrictive covenants shall be in accordance with the requirements
contained in section
11-3-8  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-2-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT; GUARANTY:
The public improvements agreement and guaranty shall be in accordance with the
requirements contained in section
11-3-9  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-5-2-3: AMENDING APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLATS BEFORE FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
Any proposal to amend a preliminary plat before final plat approval shall be in
accordance with the requirements contained in section
11-3-10  of this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: General Standards
11-6-2: Lands Unsuitable For Subdivision
11-6-3: Floodplain Provisions
11-6-4: Improvement Design
11-6-5: Lots
11-6-6: Blocks
11-6-7: Streets, Roads, Alleys And Access
11-6-8: Grading And Drainage
11-6-9: Water Supply Systems
11-6-10: Sewage Treatment System
11-6-11: Solid Waste
11-6-12: Utilities
11-6-13: Easements
11-6-14: Park Land Requirements
11-6-15: Fire Protection
11-6-16: Disposition Of Water Rights
11-6-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All subdivisions approved by the town council
shall comply with the provisions of this section, except where granted a
variance. For subdivisions created by lease or rent, condominiums, and planned
unit developments, refer to chapters 7, 8 and 9 of this title.
   B.   Design And Development: The design and development of a subdivision
shall conform with the Manhattan city-county growth policy, Town of Manhattan
design standards and specifications policy, Town of Manhattan modifications to
Montana public works standard specifications and standard drawings for utility
improvements, this code, the Montana department of environmental quality
standards and other regulations. The design and development of subdivisions
shall provide satisfactory building sites which are properly related to
topography, and shall preserve the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing
topsoil, trees, and natural vegetation to the extent possible. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-6-2: LANDS UNSUITABLE FOR SUBDIVISION:
Lands which the town council has found to be unsuitable for subdivision shall
not be subdivided for building or residential purposes unless the hazards are
eliminated or will be overcome by approved design and construction plans. These
unsuitable lands may have one or more of the following potential hazards:
   A.   Flooding;
   B.   Unstable soils;
   C.   High water table;
   D.   Polluted soils and/or ground water;
   E.   High voltage lines or high-pressure gas lines;
   F.   Vehicular traffic hazards, congestion; and
   G.   Lands placing unreasonable burdens on the public such as requirements
for the excessive expenditure of public funds or environmental degradation.
(Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-3: FLOODPLAIN PROVISIONS:
Land located in the floodway of a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency as
defined by title 76, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated, or land deemed subject
to flooding as determined by the town council or designee shall not be
subdivided for building or residential purposes, or other uses that may
increase or aggravate flood hazards to life, health, or property. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-6-4: IMPROVEMENT DESIGN:
Engineering and survey plans, specifications and reports required in connection
with public improvements and other elements of a subdivision required by the
town council shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer or a
registered land surveyor as their respective licensing laws allow in accordance
with the MSPA and this title. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-5: LOTS:
   A.   Building Site: Each lot shall contain a satisfactory building site,
which is properly related to topography and conforms to the Montana department
of environmental quality regulations, this code, and this title.
   B.   Prohibited Divisions:
      1.   No single lot shall be divided by a municipal boundary line.
      2.   No single lot shall be divided by a public street, alley, or utility
right of way or easement.
   C.   Access: Each lot shall have access to a public or private street.
Alleys may not be used to provide the primary means of access to a lot.
   D.   Corner Lots:
      1.   Driveway Access: Corner lots shall have driveway access to the same
street or road as interior lots.
      2.   Area: Corner lots shall be of sufficient area to provide acceptable
visibility for traffic safety.
   E.   Depth: No lot shall have an average depth greater than three (3) times
its average width.
   F.   Width: No lot shall have an average width greater than its average
depth.
   G.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at substantially right angles
to street or road lines and radial to curved street or road lines.
   H.   Through Lots: Through lots are prohibited except where essential to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation.
   I.   Lot And/or House Numbers: Lots and/or houses shall be clearly numbered
or otherwise identified. Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in
height and visible from the street. If adjacent to existing platted lots, lot
or house numbers shall correspond accordingly.
   J.   Penalty: Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-2  of this code. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-6: BLOCKS:
   A.   Design: Blocks shall be designed to assure traffic safety and ease of
traffic control and circulation, to accommodate the special needs of the use
contemplated, and to take advantage of the area's topography.
   B.   Length: Unless impractical, block length must not be more than seven
hundred fifty feet (750').
   C.   Termination Of Streets: Blocks shall be wide enough to allow for two
(2) tiers of lots except where essential to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific topography and
orientation constraints or unless the town council approves the design of
irregular shaped blocks indented by cul-de-sacs.
   D.   Pedestrian Walks: Rights of way for pedestrian walks, not less than ten
feet (10') wide, shall be required to provide access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be required in all residential subdivisions where
prudent and utilities shall be placed in alleys when possible.
Penalty: Any person violating a provision of this section for which another
penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as
set forth in section
1-4-2  of this code. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-7: STREETS, ROADS, ALLEYS AND ACCESS:
   A.   Design:
      1.   Existing Conditions: The arrangement, type, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets and alleys shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets and alleys, to topographical conditions and to
public convenience and safety, and in their relation to the proposed uses of
the land they will serve.
      2.   Design Specifications: Streets and alleys shall meet the design
specifications in the Town of Manhattan design standards and specifications
policy, Town of Manhattan modifications to Montana public works standard
specifications and standard drawings for utility improvements, and this code.
      3.   Termination Of Streets: Where streets terminate, either a cul-de-sac
or T turnaround must be provided at the terminus.
      4.   Soil Stability: In areas where the Gallatin County soil survey
designates severe limitations exist in soil stability, aggregate surfacing
thickness design of streets shall be based upon an analysis of subgrade
foundation strength.
      5.   Dedication To Public: All streets and alleys within a subdivision
shall be dedicated to the public.
      6.   Alleys: A minimum twenty-foot (20') alley shall be required for fire
lane and utility easements.
      7.   Residential Driveways: Residential driveways in major subdivisions
shall not have direct access to primary highways. Where no reasonable option is
available, the Montana department of transportation may issue a road approach
permit.
      8.   Through Traffic: Local streets shall be designed to discourage
through traffic. This is not meant to discourage the continuance or connection
of the grid pattern present in Manhattan. Where possible all street shall
connect to the existing transportation network of Manhattan.
      9.   Arterial Highway Or Major Thoroughfare: Where a subdivision abuts or
contains an existing or proposed arterial highway or major thoroughfare, the
town council may require frontage roads, and prohibit access along the rear
property line, deep lots, or other appropriate actions to adequately protect
residential properties and to separate arterial and local traffic.
      10.   Existing Streets And Alleys: Streets and alleys which are a
continuation of existing streets and alleys outside the proposed subdivision
shall be aligned to ensure their center lines and boulevards coincide.
Continuation of existing streets and alleys shall have the right-of-way width
of at least that of the existing streets and alleys unless otherwise specified
by the town.
      11.   Half Streets: Half streets are prohibited except where essential to
the development of the subdivision and where the town council is assured that
it will be possible to require the dedication of the other half of the street
when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever an existing half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street must be
platted within such tract.
      12.   Names: Names of new streets aligned with existing streets shall be
the same as those of the existing streets. Street names for noncontinuous
streets shall not be duplicated nor be confused with existing street names.
Street names are subject to approval of the town council.
      13.   Intersections: The following items apply to intersections:
         a.   Streets shall intersect at ninety-degree (90°) angles, except
when topography precludes, and in no case shall the angle of intersection be
less than seventy-five degrees (75°) to the center line of the street being
intersected.
         b.   Two (2) streets meeting a third street from opposite sides must
be offset at least one hundred twenty-five feet (125') for local streets and
three hundred feet (300') for arterials or collectors.
         c.   Intersection design shall provide acceptable visibility for
traffic safety as indicated by the designed operating speeds on the individual
roadways.
         d.   Intersections of local streets with major arterials or highways
shall be kept to a minimum.
   B.   General Improvements:
      1.   Roadway Improvements: All roadway improvements including pavement,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and drainage shall be constructed in accordance with
the specifications and standards prescribed in the town specifications for
street improvements.
      2.   Sidewalks Or Walkways: Sidewalks or walkways shall be provided in
subdivisions of the town and shall be a minimum width of five feet (5') in
residential districts and ten feet (10') in commercial districts. Boulevards
shall conform with existing boulevards or when none exist, boulevards shall be
a minimum of four feet (4').
      3.   Streetlights: Streetlights shall be required by the town on all
streets within the subdivision. They shall be designed to meet the Town of
Manhattan design standards and specifications policy, Town of Manhattan
modifications to Montana public works standard specifications and standard
drawings for utility improvements and exceed the following minimum standards:
 
Location         Average Horizontal Foot Candles
Within Manhattan Town Limits
Entrance Streets 1.2
Minor Streets    0.9
 
      4.   Existing Trees And Vegetation: Existing trees and other vegetation
shall be preserved where possible. The Town may require plantings for
buffering, screening, or soil erosion protection.
      5.   Street Name and Traffic-Control Signs: Street name and traffic-
control signs shall be installed at all intersections and other appropriate
locations within the subdivision. The size, shape, height, and placement of
signs shall conform with the town sign specifications. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-6-8: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Drainage System And Facilities:
      1.   Standards: The drainage system and facilities required for any
surface runoff affecting the subdivision shall meet the minimum drainage
standards of the Town of Manhattan design standards and specifications policy,
town of Manhattan modifications to Montana public works standard specifications
and standard drawings for utility improvements, the Montana department of
environmental quality and all other adopted regulations and are subject to the
approval of the town.
      2.   Subdivider To Provide: The subdivider shall provide suitable
drainage facilities (e.g., storm drains, ditches, or culverts) for any surface
runoff affecting the subdivision and any adjacent properties. These facilities
shall be in street rights of way or in perpetual easements of appropriate
widths and are subject to approval by the town.
      3.   Size; Specifications: Each drainage facility shall be large enough
to accommodate potential runoff from upstream drainage areas. The size of the
facility shall be calculated in accordance with the Town of Manhattan design
standards and specifications policy, Town of Manhattan modifications to Montana
public works standard specifications and standard drawings for utility
improvements. Other erosion control measures may be required as necessary.
      4.   Discharge Prohibited: Stormwater drainage systems, roof drainage,
building foundation drains and sump pumps, and groundwater dewatering systems
shall not discharge into any sanitary sewer facility.
   B.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required in all
subdivisions. Where possible, curbs and gutters on adjoining properties shall
be extended to join new curbs and gutters.
   C.   Preparation Of Plans, Specifications And Reports: Plans,
specifications, and reports required with the grading and drainage plan shall
be prepared by a registered professional engineer or a registered land surveyor
as their respective licensing laws allow. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-9: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Installation Required: The subdivider shall install complete water
distribution facilities to adjoin the existing municipal system in accordance
with the requirements of the Town of Manhattan design standards and
specifications policy, Town of Manhattan modifications to Montana public works
standard specifications and standard drawings for utility improvements, the
Montana department of environmental quality, and this code.
   B.   Adequate And Legal Water Supply: The subdivider shall provide the town
with adequate and legal water supply or the town shall provide water supply
only if the town has a surplus of legal and adequate water supply and that the
inclusion of proposed development has no negative impacts to the distribution
system nor the capacity of water of the town's water supply system.
   C.   Plans And Specifications: The subdivider shall submit plans and
specifications for the proposed facilities to the town and to the Montana
department of environmental quality and shall obtain their approvals prior to
undertaking any construction. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-10: SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Installation Required: Except as otherwise provided in section
9-2-2  of this code, the subdivider shall install complete sanitary sewer
collection facilities to adjoin the existing municipal system in accordance
with the requirements of the Town of Manhattan design standards and
specifications policy, Town of Manhattan modifications to Montana public works
standard specifications and standard drawings for utility improvements, the
Montana department of environmental quality, and this code.
   B.   Plans And Specifications: The subdivider shall submit plans and
specifications for the proposed facilities to the town and to the Montana
department of environmental quality and shall obtain their approval prior to
undertaking any construction. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-11: SOLID WASTE:
The subdivider shall assure that provisions for collection and disposal of
solid waste are available and meet the regulations and minimum standards of the
Montana department of environmental quality. These means shall be in accordance
with current town procedures for collection and disposal. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-6-12: UTILITIES:
   A.   Easements: The subdivider shall provide adequate and appropriate
easements for the construction of utilities within the subdivision. The
subdivider shall obtain any easements necessary to extend utilities to the
subdivision.
   B.   Underground Placement: Utilities shall be placed underground whenever
practical. Underground utilities, if placed in the street right of way, shall
be located between the roadway and the right of way line to simplify location
and repair of lines. Underground utility lines shall be installed after the
street has been brought to grade and before it is surfaced to minimize the
necessity for disturbing road surfacing to connect individual services.
   C.   Overhead Utility Lines: Overhead utility lines shall be located at rear
property lines, where practical.
   D.   Design: Utility facilities shall be designed by utility firms in
cooperation with the subdivider. Design is subject to all applicable laws and
rules and regulations of any regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such
facilities. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-13: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Required: Where required by the town or private utility company,
easements shall be provided for utilities, drainage and vehicular or pedestrian
access.
   B.   Location: Front setback utility easements must be ten feet wide, and
must always be provided unless written confirmation is submitted to the town
from all utility companies providing service indicating that a front setback
easement is not needed. Side and back yard utility easements, if required,
shall be centered along or adjacent to side and rear lot lines where possible.
If placed in the street, they shall be located between the roadway and the
right of way line.
   C.   Width: Utility easements shall be at least ten feet (10') along the
front yard and street frontage, twenty feet (20') wide along or adjacent to
rear lot lines and sixteen feet (16') wide for side lot lines unless otherwise
specified by the town.
   D.   Encroachment Permit: Where a utility will be in an existing, dedicated
right of way, an encroachment permit must be obtained from the local and/or
state road department having jurisdiction.
   E.   Watercourse, Drainageway, Channel, Ditch Or Stream:
      1.   Except as noted below, the subdivider shall establish within the
subdivision ditch easements that:
         a.   Are in locations of appropriate topographic characteristics and
sufficient width to allow the physical placement and unobstructed maintenance
of open ditches or belowground pipelines for the delivery of water for
irrigation to persons and land legally entitled to the water under an
appropriated water right or permit of an irrigation district or other private
or public entity formed to provide for the use of the water rights on the
subdivision lots;
         b.   Are a sufficient distance from the centerline of the ditch to
allow for construction, repair, maintenance, and inspection of the ditch; and
         c.   Prohibit the placement of structures or the planting of
vegetation other than grass within the ditch easement without the written
permission of the ditch owner.
      2.   The subdivider shall, unless otherwise provided under separate
written agreement or filed easement, show on the preliminary and final plat,
and file and record with the county clerk and recorder, ditch easements for the
unobstructed use and maintenance of existing water delivery ditches, pipelines,
and facilities in the proposed subdivision that are necessary to convey water
through the subdivision to lands adjacent to or beyond the subdivision
boundaries in quantities and in a manner that are consistent with historic and
legal rights. A minimum width of fifteen feet (15') is required on each side of
irrigation canals and ditches for maintenance purposes.
         a.   In addition to showing the location of the easement on the plat
with dashed lines, the following statement shall be on the final plat or an
accompanying document:
   F.   The undersigned hereby grants unto each person, firm or corporation
that has a documented water right or agricultural water user facilities as
shown on this plat, an easement for the maintenance and repair of said
agricultural water user facilities in, over and across the areas designated
water user facility easement.
   G.   Required Statement: In addition to showing the location of the utility
easement on the plat with dashed lines, the following statement shall be on the
final plat or an accompanying document:
"The undersigned hereby grants unto each person, firm, or corporation, whether
public or private, providing or offering to provide telephone, telegraph,
electrical power, gas, television, water or sewer service to the public, the
right to joint use of an easement for the construction, maintenance, repair and
removal of their lines and other facility, in, over, under and across each area
designated on this plat as "Utility Easement" to have and to hold forever."
(Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-14: PARK LAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Cash Or Land Donation Required: A subdivider may dedicate to the town a
cash or land donation equal to eleven percent (11%) of the area of the land
proposed to be subdivided into parcels of one-half (½) acre or smaller.
   B.   Additional Requirements: When a subdivision is located totally within
an area for which density requirements have been adopted pursuant to the
Manhattan master plan or to title 10 of this code, the town may establish park
dedication requirements based on the community need for parks and the
development densities identified in the plan or ordinance. Park dedication
requirements established under this subsection is in lieu of those provided in
section
11-6-14 -A of this section, and may not exceed three one-hundredths (0.03) acre
per dwelling unit.
   C.   Exceptions: A park dedication may not be required for:
      1.   A minor subdivision;
      2.   Subdivision into parcels that are all nonresidential;
      3.   Subdivision exemptions per MCA 76-3-207;
      4.   A subdivision in which parcels are not created, except when that
subdivision provides permanent multiple spaces for recreational camping
vehicles, mobile homes, or condominiums; or
      5.   A subdivision in which only one additional parcel is created.
   D.   Suitable Locations; Determination of Donation: The town, in
consultation with the subdivider and the planning board or park board that has
jurisdiction, may determine suitable locations for parks and playgrounds and,
giving due weight and consideration to the expressed preference of the
subdivider, may determine whether the park dedication must be a land donation,
cash donation, or a combination of both. When a combination of land donation
and cash donation is required, the cash donation may not exceed the
proportional amount not covered by the land donation.
   E.   Dedicated Funds, Use Of: In accordance with the provisions of
subsections
11-6-14 -E-1 and
11-6-14 -E-2 of this section, the town shall use the dedicated money or land
for development, acquisition, or maintenance of parks to serve the subdivision.
      1.   Acquire, Develop Or Maintain Parks Or Recreational Areas: The town
may use the dedicated money to acquire, develop, or maintain, within its
jurisdiction, parks, or recreational areas or for the purchase of public open
space or conservation easements only if:
         a.   The park, recreational area, open space, or conservation easement
is within a reasonably proximity to the proposed subdivision; and
         b.   The town has formally adopted a park plan that establishes the
needs and procedures for use of the money.
      2.   Maintenance: The town may not use more than fifty percent (50%) of
the dedicated money for park maintenance.
   F.   Waiver: The town shall waive the park dedication requirement if:
      1.   Park And Recreational Uses:
         a.   The preliminary plat provides for a planned unit development or
other development with land permanently set aside for park and recreational
uses sufficient to meet the needs of the persons who will ultimately reside in
the development; and
         b.   The area of the land and any improvements set aside for park and
recreational purposes equals or exceeds the area of the dedication required
under subsection A of this section;
      2.   Long Term Protection:
         a.   The preliminary plat provides long term protection of critical
wildlife habitat; cultural, historical, or natural resources; agricultural
interests; or aesthetic values; and
         b.   The area of the land proposed to be subdivided, by virtue of
providing long term protection provided for in subsection
11-6-14 -F-2-a of this section, is reduced by an amount equal to or exceeding
the area of the dedication required under subsection A of this section; or
      3.   Equal To or Exceed Requirement: The area of the land proposed to be
subdivided, by virtue of a combination of the provisions of subsections
11-6-14 -F-1 and
11-6-14 -F-2 of this section, is reduced by an amount equal to or exceeding the
area of the dedication required under subsection A of this section.
      4.   Land Outside Subdivision: The subdivider provides for land outside
of the subdivision to be set aside for park and recreational uses sufficient to
meet the needs of the persons who will ultimately reside in the subdivision;
and the area of the land and any improvements set aside for park and
recreational uses equals or exceeds the area of dedication required under this
section.
   G.   Cash Donation Defined: For the purposes of this section, "cash
donation" is the fair market value of the unsubdivided, unimproved land after
it has been annexed and given an urban zoning designation. The town intends to
obtain the highest value for cash in lieu of park land that is allowable under
Montana law.
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide an
appraisal of the fair market value by a certified real estate appraiser of
their choosing. The appraisal fee shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      2.   When a land value must be established for cash in lieu of land
dedication, and the value of the land in an unsubdivided, unimproved, but
annexed and zoned condition cannot reasonably be determined, the developer may
provide an appraisal of residentially zoned property with a zoning designation
that allows the density of dwellings proposed for development.
      3.   The appraisal shall be conducted not sooner than ninety (90) days
prior to the submittal of an application for final plat or final site plan
approval.
   H.   Land Donation To School District: Subject to the approval of the local
governing body and acceptance by the school district trustees, a subdivider may
dedicate a land donation to the Manhattan school district, adequate to be used
for school facilities or buildings. The area dedicated to the school district
may be used for school facilities or buildings, including, but not limited to,
playgrounds or other recreational facility.
      1.   In approving a dedication of land to the school district the town
council shall make affirmative findings that:
         a.   Adequate public park land already exists within the vicinity of
the dedicating subdivision to meet service standards established by the town's
parks master plan;
         b.   The land is located within the town limits or within one mile of
town limits;
         c.   The school district has established a facility plan to
demonstrate how the dedicated property will be utilized;
         d.   The school district's facility plan shall describe any
coordination intended for joint use of the property by the school district and
the town; and
         e.   The option for cash in lieu of land described in this section
shall not be used in place of a land dedication to the school district.
      2.   It shall be noted in a certificate on the plat and in any deed to
the land that if the school district later chooses to dispose of the property,
it shall revert to the town to be used for park purposes. The land shall be
transferred to the town from the school district with clear title and in a
condition meeting the minimum development standards for parks. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-6-15: FIRE PROTECTION:
All subdivisions shall be planned, designed, constructed, and maintained to
minimize the risk of fire and to permit the effective and efficient suppression
of fires to protect persons and property. All subdivisions must conform to
standards and specifications required by the town fire department. (Ord. 24-
007, 12-11-2024)
11-6-16: DISPOSITION OF WATER RIGHTS:
If a subdivision will create lots within the planning jurisdictional area of
the town, but not within town limits, averaging less than five (5) acres in
size, the subdivider shall submit evidence with the final plat that the
subdivider has:
   A.   Reserved all or a portion of the appropriation water rights owned by
the owner of the land to be subdivided and transfer these water rights to the
town for use by landowners within the subdivision;
   B.   If the land to be subdivided is subject to a contract or interest in a
public or private entity formed to provide for the use of a water right on the
subdivision lots, established a landowner's water use agreement administered
through a single entity. Any entity that is not affiliated with the town may
not operate a public or private water system within the town limits. If
proposed in the UGA or PJA an agreement to provide water service to the
proposed development must be filed with the Town of Manhattan prior to
preliminary plat approval. This agreement must specify how the water rights
will be administered and describe the rights and responsibilities of landowners
within the subdivision who have a legal right and access to the water; or
   C.   Reserved and severed all surface water rights from the land proposed
for subdivision. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 7
EXPEDITED REVIEW FOR CERTAIN SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Criteria
11-7-2:    Review Process
11-7-1: CRITERIA:
Except as provided in this chapter, a subdivision application, regardless of
the number of lots, that meets the requirements provided in section
11-7-1 -B is entitled to the expedited review process provided in this section
at the applicant's request.
   A.   A subdivision application that meets the requirements provided in
section
11-7-1 -B is exempt from:
      1.   The preparation of an environmental assessment as required in MCA
76-3-603; and
      2.   The review criteria listed in MCA 76-3-608(3)(a).
   B.   A subdivision qualifies for the expedited review process provided in
this section if the proposed subdivision:
      1.   Is within an incorporated city or town or consolidated city-county
government and is subject to an adopted growth policy pursuant to MCA title 76,
chapter 1, and adopted zoning regulations pursuant to MCA title 76, chapter 2,
part 3; or
      2.   Is within a county water and/or sewer district created under MCA 7-
13-2203 that provides both water and sewer services or an area outside the
boundaries of an incorporated city, town, county, or consolidated city-county
that is served by city, town, county, or consolidated city-county water and
sewer services and is subject to an adopted growth policy as provided in title
76, chapter 1, and zoning regulations pursuant to MCA title 76, chapter 2, part
2, that, at a minimum, address development intensity through minimum lot sizes
or densities, bulk and dimensional requirements, and use standards;
         a.   Complies with zoning regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-2-203
or MCA 76-2-304 and complies with the design standards and other subdivision
regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504; and
         b.   Includes in its proposal plans for the onsite development of or
extension to public infrastructure in accordance with adopted ordinances and
regulations. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-7-2: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   On submission for expedited review under this section, the subdivision
application must be reviewed for required elements and sufficiency of
information as provided in MCA 76-3- 601(1) through (3) to determine whether
the application complies with zoning regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-2-
203 or MCA 76-2-304 and complies with the design standards and other
subdivision regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504 MCA and includes in
its proposal plans for the onsite development of or extension to public
infrastructure in accordance with adopted ordinances and regulations. The
application may include a request for variance or deviation from subdivision
regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504 and in accordance with the
provisions of MCA 76-3-506.
   B.   The Governing Body Shall:
      1.   Hold a hearing and approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
subdivision application within thirty-five (35) working days of a determination
by the reviewing agent or agency that the application contains required
elements and sufficient information for review as provided in section
11-7-1 -B. If the subdivision application includes a request for variance or
deviation from subdivision regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76- 3-504, the
time for holding a hearing as required in this subsection
11-7-2 -D must be extended to a total of forty-five (45) working days.
      2.   Provide notice for the hearing required in section
11-7-2 -D-a by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing;
      3.   Approve the application unless public comment or other information
demonstrates the application does not comply with:
         a.   Adopted zoning regulations, design standards, and other
requirements of subdivision regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504,
including any criteria for granting variances or deviations from subdivision
regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504; or
         b.   Adopted ordinances or regulations for the onsite development of
or extension to public infrastructure; and
      4.   Provide to the applicant and the public a written statement within
thirty (30) days of the decision to approve or deny a proposed subdivision for
expedited review as allowed in this section that provides:
         a.   The facts and conclusions that the governing body relied on in
making its decision to approve or deny the application; and
         b.   The conditions that apply to the preliminary plat approval that
must be satisfied before the final plat may be approved.
   C.   The Governing Body May:
      1.   With the agreement of the applicant, grant one (1) extension of the
review period allowed in subsection
11-7-2 -D-a not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) calendar days;
      2.   Adopt conditions of approval only to ensure an approved subdivision
application is completed in accordance with the approved application and any
applicable requirements pursuant to MCA title 76, chapter 4; or
      3.   Delegate to its reviewing agent or agency the requirement to hold a
public hearing on the subdivision application as required in this section.
   D.   A local governing body may not adopt zoning regulations pursuant to MCA
76-2-203 or MCA 76-2-304, subdivision regulations pursuant to MCA 76-3-504, or
other ordinances or regulations that restrict the use of the expedited
subdivision review process as provided in this section.
   E.   Except as modified in this section, subdivision applications meeting
the requirements for an expedited review remain subject to the provisions of
MCA 76-3-608(3)(b) through (3)(d) and MCA 76-3-608(6) through (10), MCA 76-3-
610 through MCA 76-3-614, MCA 76-3-621, and MCA 76-3-625.
   F.   The provisions of this section supersede any provision of this chapter
that conflicts with any provision of this section. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISIONS CREATED BY RENT OR LEASE
SECTION:
11-8-1: General
11-8-2:    Procedure
11-8-3:    Standards For Mobile Home Parks And Recreational Vehicle Camping
Parks
11-8-1: GENERAL:
An area, regardless of its size, that provides for the rent or lease of
multiple spaces for recreational camping vehicles or mobile homes, townhouses
and condominiums are exempt from the survey requirements of these regulations,
but must be submitted for review and be approved by the governing body before
possession of any portion thereof may be conveyed in any manner.
   A.   Condominiums, townhomes, townhouses, or conversions, as those terms are
defined in section 70-23-102, constructed on land subdivided in compliance with
parts 5 and 6 of this chapter or on lots within incorporated cities and towns
are exempt from the provisions of this chapter if:
      1.   The approval of the original subdivision of land expressly
contemplated the construction of the condominiums, townhomes, or townhouses and
any applicable park dedication requirements in section 76-3-621 are complied
with; or
      2.   The condominium, townhome, or townhouse proposal is in conformance
with applicable local zoning regulations pertaining to land use, density, bulk
and dimensional requirements, landscaping, and parking requirements when local
zoning regulations are in effect. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-8-2: PROCEDURE:
Subdivisions created for the rent or lease of multiple spaces for recreational
camping vehicles or mobile homes, Townhouses, and condominiums shall be
reviewed in accordance with the procedures outlined in the major subdivision
section for proposals that include six (6) or more mobile home, townhouses,
condominium, or recreational camping vehicle units; or the minor subdivision
section for proposals that include five (5) or fewer mobile home, townhouses,
condominium, or recreational camping vehicle units.
   A.   Plans And Data. Plans and supplemental information required in these
regulations shall be submitted with the following exemptions and additions.
      1.   Boundary Lines: All plans may show approximate boundary, lot, right-
of-way, or other lines including the plan submitted for final approval.
      2.   Documents And Certificates: Only the following documents and
certificates shall be submitted with or shown on the preliminary plan (draft or
copy) and the plan submitted for final approval (final form and signed).
         a.   Covenants, restrictions, or lease and rental agreements.
         b.   Encroachment permits or a letter indicating intent to issue a
permit where new roads, easements, and other subdivision improvements intersect
or are located within city, county, or state highways or roads.
         c.   Certificates of installation of improvements by engineer.
         d.   Certificate of the town council.
         e.   A letter of approval from the town council where a zoning change
is necessary (with plan for final approval only).
         f.   Certificate of approval by MDEQ (with plan for final approval
only). (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-8-3: STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE CAMPING PARKS:
   A.   The design and improvement standards of these regulations shall be
compiled with, except where otherwise noted below.
   B.   Density: The density shall not exceed twenty (20) spaces per acre of
gross site area.
   C.   Occupied Area: Mobile home and its attached structures may not occupy
more than one- third (1/3) of the area of its lot. The total area occupied by a
mobile home and its roofed accessory buildings and structures may not exceed
two-thirds (2/3) of the area of a lot.
   D.   Space Layout: Required plans shall include a layout of a typical mobile
home or recreational camping vehicle space showing the location and dimensions
of the space, stand, driveway, and parking spaces in compliance with the
following standards:
 Mobile Home Park Recreational Vehicle Park
                        Mobile Home Park            Recreational Vehicle Park
Minimum Space Area      6,000 sq. ft.               1,500 sq. ft.
Minimum Space Width     60 ft.                      15 ft.
Minimum Stand Size      12 ft. x 50 ft. Single Wide
                       24 ft. x 50 ft. Double Wide
Setback of Stands from:
 
Property Lines          20 ft.                      25ft.
Interior Roads          15 ft.
Public Roads            25 ft.
Distance between Stands
Side to Side            25 ft.
Rear to Rear            15 ft.
Parking Spaces
Each Lot                2
Every four (4) Lots     1
Space Size Requirements 9 ft. x 20 ft.
 
   E.   Road Design: Roads within mobile home or recreational camping vehicle
parks shall be improved in accordance with the Manhattan transportation design
and construction standards. The subdivider shall not be required to reserve
right-of-way more than road width. The roadway width, as measured from improved
edge to improved edge shall be:
 
Road with parking on each side    40 feet
Road with parking on one (1) side 32 feet
Roads with no parking             24 feet
 
As determined by the town's engineer, roads within a mobile home or
recreational camping vehicle park may either be public or private.
   F.   Mail Delivery: If mail delivery will not be to each individual space or
unit, the mobile home or recreational camping vehicle park shall provide an
off-road area for mail delivery within the park in cooperation with the United
States post office.
   G.   Driveway: The driveway shall be located to allow convenient access to
the mobile home. The minimum width shall be sixteen feet (16').
   H.   Primary Access: Mobile home and recreational camping vehicle parks
shall have direct access to a collector or arterial road.
   I.   Stand Access: Minimum access width to each mobile home stand shall be
twelve feet (12').
   J.   Second Access: To facilitate traffic, the provision of emergency
services, and the placement of utility easements, the subdivider may be
required to provide all mobile home or recreational camping vehicle parks with
a second access.
   K.   Skirting: Each mobile home shall be skirted within sixty (60) days
after being moved onto a lot within the mobile home park. The skirting shall be
made of fire-resistant material like the material which the mobile home
exterior is constructed.
   L.   Arrangement: Mobile or manufactured home spaces shall be arranged to
permit the practical placement and removal of mobile homes.
   M.   Detached Structures: No detached structure, such as a storage shed, may
be located within five feet (5') of any mobile home or its attached structures.
   N.   Limits Marked: The limits of each mobile home or recreational camping
vehicle space shall be marked on the ground with a suitable means prior to
submittal of the plan for final approval.
   O.   Stand Base Requirements: Each mobile home stand shall be constructed to
provide adequate support for placement of the mobile home, including a stabile
sub base along with an appropriate base material (gravel, concrete, etc.) and
this base material shall be subject to road department approval.
   P.   Tie-Downs: Mobile home stands shall be equipped with anchors or tie-
downs in conformance with the uniform building code.
   Q.   Landscaping: Landscaping may be required to provide a buffer between
mobile home and recreational camping vehicle parks and adjacent properties.
   R.   Recreation Areas: A common recreational area(s) shall be provided in
the mobile or recreational camping vehicle park for use by all tenants and
their invited guests. These areas shall be located to conveniently serve
residents of the entire development, with a minimum total area of four hundred
(400) square feet of recreational space for each mobile or recreational camping
vehicle space. Common recreation areas may include community recreation
buildings and facilities.
   S.   If a Subdivision provides multiple spaces for mobile homes or
recreational camping vehicles is also a "trailer court", "work camp", "youth
camp", or "campground" as those terms are defined in section MCA 50-52-102, the
town council will not grant final approval of the subdivision until the
subdivider obtains a license for the facility from the Montana department of
public health and human services under MCA title 50, chapter 52. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Procedures
11-9-2:    Standards
11-9-3:    Administration And Review Process
11-9-4:    Project Design
11-9-5:    Application Requirements
11-9-6:    Legal Requirements
11-9-7:    Standards Of Development
11-9-8:    Conditional Approval
11-9-9:    Approval
11-9-10: Review Criteria
11-9-11: Responsibility For Impact Mitigation:
11-9-12: Appeal Process
11-9-1: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Subject To Procedures: Planned unit developments are subdivisions and
are subject to the procedures contained in chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Qualifications Required: To qualify as a PUD, the development plan must
promote the clustering of individual building sites, and do one (1) or more of
the following:
      1.   Preserve to the maximum extent possible, the natural characteristics
of the land including topography, vegetation, streams, and other bodies of
water.
      2.   Provide economies in the provision of roads and other public
improvements.
      3.   Preserve productive agricultural land, open space, or riparian
areas.
      4.   Protect important historic sites or structures or areas of important
wildlife habitat.
      5.   Provide developed facilities for recreational purposes. (Ord. 24-
007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Flexibility: For PUDs, flexibility in certain subdivision standards is
provided allowing creativity in subdivision design using cluster development to
promote economies in providing services while preserving and enhancing open
space and unique natural features.
   B.   Design And Improvement Standards: Planned unit developments shall
comply with the appropriate standards contained in chapter 6 of this title
unless proposing alternatives approved by the town council.
   C.   Modification Of Standards: The design and improvement standards
contained in chapter 6 of this title may be modified by the town upon request
of the subdivider where the plan for a PUD includes provisions for efficient
traffic circulation, adequate light, air, and open space and where these
standards are not practical or reasonable in respect to the overall PUD
subdivision design.
   D.   Streets: The arrangement, type, extent, width, grade, and location of
all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions and to public convenience and safety.
   E.   Common Open Space: Each planned unit residential development shall
provide at least eleven percent (11%) of the platted area, exclusive of all
other dedications, for common open space. The open space shall be:
      1.   Held in common ownership by a property owner's association; and/or
      2.   Dedicated to public use, if acceptable to the town.
   F.   Dedication And Cash Donation Requirements: The town may waive
dedication and cash donation requirements when the subdivider agrees to create
a property owner's association for the proposed subdivision and the deed to the
association land to be held in perpetuity for use as parks or playgrounds.
   G.   Required Information: The development shall comply with PUD provisions
in title 10 of this code. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-3: ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   A PUD shall not be placed in the central business district nor the
parks and open space district.
   B.   A PUD application shall follow the review process outlined below.
      1.   All applications for a planned unit development shall be filed in
the town office accompanied with the appropriate fee prescribed on the adopted
Town of Manhattan fee schedule.
      2.   The town council shall then cause to be made such investigation of
facts bearing on the application as will provide necessary information to
assure that the action on each such application is consistent with the intent
and purpose of this title.
      3.   The planning board shall, after legal notice of not less than
fifteen (15) days, hold a public hearing to review the application. At the
hearing the planning board shall make a recommendation to the town council and
add any relevant conditions to mitigate impacts to the criteria found in
section 10-10-5.
      4.   The town council shall, after legal notice of not less than fifteen
(15) days, hold a public hearing on the application and take testimony from
interested parties. The town council shall then either approve or deny the
application. If the application is denied, reasons for denial should be given.
(Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-4: PROJECT DESIGN:
   A.   The applicant may submit any combination of proposed uses to the town
council for a PUD. The combination of uses and their impacts to adjacent owners
within and adjacent to the subject site shall be a primary review criterion.
This includes uses that are not currently defined in the town code.
   B.   The applicant may propose their own standards regarding the following
items for review by the council, adherence to the design standards of the town
is required unless the applicant can provide sufficient reasoning as to their
proposed modifications:
      1.   Density;
      2.   Lot Size;
      3.   Use;
      4.   Height Restrictions;
      5.   Encroachments;
      6.   Alleys;
      7.   Road design (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024).
11-9-5: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A planned unit development application shall include a plan of development with
the following information:
   A.   A sketch of the proposed site showing existing physical features, i.e.,
topography, trees, streams, structures, streets, utility lines, etc.;
   B.   General information and plans of utility systems and any design plans
or reports as required to ensure that the proposal complies with town
standards;
   C.   Legal description and plat of proposed site;
   D.   Notation of acreage within the proposed site, numbers of lots, typical
lot size, proposed uses of lots, sites for parks and recreation or other public
and quasi-public uses;
   E.   Existing zoning of the proposed site and surrounding area;
   F.   Names, location, and tentative finished grades of all proposed streets;
   G.   Location and design of all proposed structures (should include
distances from streets and property lines and between structures);
   H.   Location and number of proposed parking spaces;
   I.   Proposed design standards and proposed zoning requirements of the PUD;
   J.   Copies of all covenants and legal instruments pertaining to operation
of the planned unit development;
   K.   Impacts and mitigation strategies to the following items:
      1.   Stormwater drainage;
      2.   Snow storage;
      3.   Traffic impacts;
      4.   Community services to include:
         a.   Water;
         b.   Wastewater;
         c.   Traffic;
         d.   Police;
         e.   Fire;
         f.   Emergency Services;
         g.   Other services as identified by town staff, the planning board,
or town council (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024).
11-9-6: LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In a planned unit development containing areas or facilities of common
or restricted ownership, the subdivision plat, dedication, covenants, and other
recorded legal agreements shall:
      1.   Legally create automatic membership in a nonprofit property owner's
association or similar instrument;
      2.   Place title to any common property or facility in the property
owner's association;
      3.   Appropriately and permanently limit the uses of common property and
open space;
      4.   Give each lot or unit owner the right to use and enjoyment of any
common property or facility;
      5.   Place responsibility for operation and maintenance of the common
property in the property owner's association;
      6.   Place an association charge on each lot or unit in a manner which
will:
      7.   Ensure sufficient funds for maintenance and operation, such charge
to be a lien on the property,
      8.   Provide adequate safeguards for owners against undesirably high
charges.
   B.   Where any of the above are not applicable or suitable, the applicant
may suggest alternative solutions approved by the town council. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-9-7: STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT:
All planned unit developments shall meet or exceed the following standards of
development:
   A.   Adequate and legal water supply. The planned unit development shall
provide proof that they have adequate and legal water supply for their proposed
development.
   B.   Site. Planned unit development sites shall not be exposed to adverse
elements, i.e., smoke, dust, noise, etc., which might create damage to property
or bring harm to occupants.
   C.   Site Size. Site size for planned unit developments shall be appropriate
to the proposed area and design but shall not be less than two (2) acres.
   D.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in convenient
locations and in accordance with title 10 of this title.
   E.   Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance
with title 10 of this title.
   F.   Open Space. Not less than eleven percent (11%) of the planned unit
development site shall be designated and maintained as common open space for
the use of the occupants of the development.
   G.   Utilities. Utilities shall be provided in a manner to meet town
specifications.
   H.   Landscaping. Landscaping may be required to provide a buffer between
proposed uses or between different adjacent district classifications. (Ord. 24-
007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-8: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
The town council may make the granting of a planned unit development subject to
reasonable limitations or conditions as it may deem necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare and to reduce any impacts to nearby property
or residences.
11-9-9: APPROVAL:
   A.   When the town council gives approval of a planned unit development,
permits shall be issued only in accordance with the approved plan and
stipulated conditions.
   B.   When the town council approves the planned unit development it shall be
noted on the official town zoning map and any future development shall adhere
to the approved PUD design standards. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-10: REVIEW CRITERIA:
All proposed planned unit developments shall be reviewed against the criteria
listed in this chapter. The applicant shall clearly demonstrate how the planned
unit development specifically addresses each applicable criterion. In
evaluating a planned unit development proposal, the planning board and town
council may determine that certain criteria are not applicable to a particular
proposal and therefore do not apply to that proposal, and establish other
reasonable review criteria and design standards, guidelines, and policies for
the purpose of implementing and interpreting the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Assure Accordance With Town Plans And Policies: The proposed
development must be in accordance with the Manhattan city-county growth policy
and other adopted plans and policies of the town, including the purpose and
application of planned unit developments as set forth in sections
10-10-1  and
10-10-2  of this chapter.
   B.   Mitigate Effects On Site And Surrounding Properties: The proposed
development should include adequate measures to mitigate adverse environmental
effects, including noise and glare, on the site and on surrounding properties.
If the project includes dwelling units or is adjacent to a residential zoning
district, architectural and landscape design features should be incorporated to
mitigate the impacts of conflicting land uses.
   C.   Mitigate Effects On Existing And Anticipated Traffic And Parking: The
proposed development should include adequate measures to integrate the project
into the traffic circulation plan of the town and to mitigate the adverse
effects of generated traffic and parking on surrounding properties. Where
feasible, it should incorporate and support non-automobile transportation
modes, such as pedestrian and bicycle paths.
   D.   Conform To Engineering Standards: The proposed development should
comply with all town engineering standards and specifications, including those
for water supply, sanitary sewers, utilities and streets, and pedestrian and
vehicular ingress and egress, including accessibility for persons with
disabilities.
   E.   Provide Appropriate Landscaping And Open Space: The proposed site
design should preserve agricultural land where possible, and should create
usable open space for recreational, relaxation or other appropriate uses by
residents and employees, and by the public where appropriate. Existing natural
vegetation in unbuilt areas should be preserved or suitably replaced if
disturbed, in harmony with the existing character of the town.
   F.   Preserve Historic Resources: If the site includes any designated or
potentially significant historic buildings, structures, sites, or objects,
measures should be taken to preserve them and incorporate them into the
development, where such measures will not cause undue hardship.
   G.   Respect Historical Identity: The proposed development should be
harmonious with and integrated into the historical identity of the town, as in
building orientation, street and alley grid, sidewalk patterns and other
features of the town's public spaces. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-9-11: RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPACT MITIGATION:
   A.   Simultaneous Development: When two (2) adjacent parcels are developed
simultaneously, the responsibility for mitigating conflicts is upon the more
intense use.
   B.   First To Develop: When a use is the first to develop on two (2)
adjacent vacant parcels, the first use shall provide the necessary buffer to
any reasonable future use as determined by the town council.
   C.   Existing Development: When a development is proposed adjacent to an
existing developed parcel, the responsibility for mitigating conflicts with and
adverse impacts on the developed parcel is upon the proposed use. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-9-12: APPEAL PROCESS:
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
town council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
council. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Schedule Of Fees
11-10-2: Variances
11-10-3: Violations
11-10-4: Penalty For Violations
11-10-5: Appeals
11-10-6: Vacating Recorded Plats
11-10-7: Amendments
11-10-1: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
A schedule of fees, charges, and expenses to be paid by subdividers to defray
the expense of general subdivision review and any inspections necessary for
plan approval at town hall or on the town's website. No action shall be taken
on applications or appeals until all fees have been fully paid. Applications
for subdivision approval shall not be accepted unless accompanied by all
required fees. Review fees are nonrefundable. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-10-2: VARIANCES:
   A.   Power To Grant: Where the town council finds extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this title, or
the purpose of this title may be served to a greater extent by an alternative
proposal, it may approve variances from this title so that substantial justice
may be done and the public interest secure; provided, that a variance shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Criteria: The town council shall not approve variances unless it makes
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare or injurious to other adjoining properties;
      2.   The conditions on which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property on which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      3.   Because of the physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result as distinct from an inconvenience, if this title are
strictly enforced;
      4.   The variance will not cause a substantial increase in public costs;
and
      5.   The variances will in no manner place the subdivision in
nonconformance with title 10 of this code or the Manhattan growth policy or
other such long range adopted document.
   C.   Conditions: In approving variances, the town council may require such
conditions as will meet substantially the objectives of the standards of the
regulations.
   D.   Procedures: A petition for any variance shall be submitted in writing
by the subdivider when the sketch plan or preliminary plat is initially
presented to the planning office for review and approval. The petition shall
state the grounds for the requested variance.
   E.   Statement Of Fact: When any such variance is granted, the motion of
approval of the proposed subdivision must contain a statement describing the
variance and the facts and conditions upon the issuance of the variance is
based. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-10-3: VIOLATIONS:
Every final subdivision plat must be filed for record with the Gallatin County
clerk and recorder before title to the subdivided land can be sold or
transferred in any manner. If unlawful transfers are made, the town attorney
shall commence action to enjoin further sales or transfers and compel
compliance with all provisions of the MSPA and this title. The cost of such
action shall be imposed against the party not prevailing. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-10-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates any provision of the MSPA or this title is guilty of a
municipal infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set
forth in section
1-4-2  of this code. Each sale, lease, or transfer, or offer of sale, lease, or
transfer of each separate parcel of land in violation of any provision of the
MSPA or this title shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 24-
007, 12-11-2024)
11-10-5: APPEALS:
Appeals can be made as stated in MCA 76-3-625. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-10-6: VACATING RECORDED PLATS:
Any plat prepared and recorded may be vacated, in whole or in part, as provided
by MCA 7-5- 2501, 7-5-2502, 7-14-2616(1) and (2), 7-14-2617, 7-14-4114(1) and
(2), 7-14-4115, and MCA 76-3-305. Utility easements shall remain intact for
continued operation and maintenance of public utility facilities. (Ord. 24-007,
12-11-2024)
11-10-7: AMENDMENTS:
Before the town amends this title, it shall hold a public hearing and shall
give public notice of its intent to amend this title and of the public hearing
by publishing notice of the time and place of the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation in Gallatin County not less than fifteen (15) days and not
more than thirty (30) days prior to hearing date. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 11
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Appendix A, Environmental Assessment And/Or Guidelines To Prepare
Findings Of Fact
11-11-2: Appendix B, Subdivision Improvements Guarantee Procedures
11-11-3: Appendix C, Sample Forms, Notices And Certificates
11-11-4: Appendix D, Fee Schedule
11-11-5: Appendix E, Subdivision Appeal Process
11-11-6: Appendix F, Developing A Major Subdivision
11-11-7: Appendix G, Developing A Minor Subdivision
11-11-8: Appendix H, Preliminary Plat Form, Contents And Supplements
11-11-1: APPENDIX A, ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND/OR GUIDELINES TO PREPARE
FINDINGS OF FACT:
General Instructions
Using available information the subdivider shall provide responses to the
following questions and provide materials as required. Sources of information
must be identified for each section of the assessment. Preparation of the
environmental assessment shall adhere to the following outline and shall be
identified with the appropriate section, heading, number and letter. On-site
inspections may be made regarding any question. Falsification or omission of
any part of the questionnaire shall constitute grounds for rejection of the
application for plat approval.
I.   DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
Describe the following environmental features, provide responses to the
following questions and provide reference materials as required.
   A.   Surface Water
      1.   Locate on a plat overlay or sketch map:
         a.   Any ditches and irrigation systems (also indicate the names,
sizes and present uses of each).
         b.   Time when water is present (seasonally or all year).
         c.   Any areas subject to flood hazard, or in delineated 100-year
floodplains.
   B.   Groundwater
      Using available data, provide the following information:
      1.   The minimum depth to water table and identify dates when depths were
determined.
   C.   Topography, Geology and Soils
      1.   Provide a map of the topography of the area to be subdivided and an
evaluation of suitability for the proposed land uses. Address conditions such
as:
         a.   In considering any unusual conditions, specifically address any
problems which may be encountered in excavating for:
            1)   Basements
            2)   Water supply trenches
            3)   Underground electrical and telephone lines
      2.   Locate on an overlay or sketch map:
         a.   Any known hazards affecting the development which could result in
property damage or personal injury due to:
            1)   Seismic activity.
            2)   High water table.
      3.   Describe measures proposed to prevent or reduce these dangers.
      4.   Describe the location and amount of any cut or fill more than three
(3) feet in depth. Indicate these cuts or fills on a plat overlay or sketch
map. Where cuts or fills are necessary, describe plans to prevent erosion and
to promote vegetation such as replacement of topsoil and grading.
   D.   Vegetation
      1.   On a plat overlay or sketch map:
         a.   Indicate the distribution of the major vegetation types, such as
marsh, grassland, shrub, deciduous forest, mixed forest.
         b.   Identify the location of critical plant communities such as:
            1)   Stream bank or shoreline vegetation
            2)   Vegetation on soils highly susceptible to wind or water
erosion
            3)   Type and extent of noxious weeds
      2.   Describe measures to:
         a.   Preserve trees and other natural vegetation (e.g. locating roads
and lot boundaries, planning construction to avoid damaging tree cover).
         b.   Protect critical plant communities (e.g. keeping structural
development away from these areas, setting areas aside for open space).
         c.   Prevent and control grass, brush or forest fires (e.g. green
strips, water supply, access).
         d.   Measures to control noxious weeds.
II.   SUMMARY OF PROBABLE IMPACTS
Provide a summary of the probable impacts of the proposed subdivision on the
following criteria.
   A.   Effects on Agriculture and Agricultural Water User Facilities
      Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on agriculture. Provide
responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required.
      1.   Would the subdivision remove agricultural land with significant
existing or potential production capacity?
      2.   Would the subdivision remove from production agricultural lands
which are critical to the area's agricultural operation (e.g. removing key
irrigated lands, winter pastures or hay lands which may limit the overall
livestock production)?
      3.   Would the subdivision create a significant conflict with nearby
agricultural operations (e.g. residential development creating problems for
moving livestock, operating farm machinery, maintaining and operating
irrigation systems, controlling weeds or applying pesticides; or would
agricultural operations suffer from vandalism, uncontrolled pets or damaged
fences)?
      4.   Would the subdivision generate nuisance complaints or problems (e.g.
dust, odor or noise from agricultural operations, safety hazards to residents
or water problems from irrigation, straying farm animals, or pesticide
application)?
      5.   How would the subdivision affect the value of nearby agricultural
lands:
         a.   Would the market, mortgage and taxable value of nearby
agricultural land increase?
         b.   Would the increased market value and the conditions in 2, 3, and
4 above encourage further land division or otherwise remove land from
production?
         c.   Would the cost of providing additional educational and other
public facilities result in higher mill levies on agricultural properties?
   B.   Effects on Local Services
      Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on local services.
Provide responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required.
      1.   Indicate the proposed use and number of lots or spaces in each:
              Residential, single family
              Residential, multiple family
              Types of multiple family structures and number of each (e.g.
duplex, 4-plex)
              Planned unit development (No. of units)
              Condominium (No. of units)
              Mobile Home Park
              Recreational Vehicle Park
              Commercial or Industrial
              Other (Please describe)
      2.   What additional or expanded public services and facilities would be
demanded of the Town of Manhattan to serve the subdivision?
         a.   What additional costs would result for services such as streets,
bridges, law enforcement, parks and recreation, fire protection, water, sewer,
and solid waste systems, or schools (including additional personnel, equipment,
construction, and maintenance costs).
         b.   Who would bear these costs (e.g. all taxpayers within the
jurisdiction, people within special taxing districts, or users of a service)?
         c.   Can the service providers meet the additional costs given legal
or other constraints (e.g. statutory ceilings on mill levies or bonded
indebtedness)?
      3.   What are the present tax revenues received from the unsubdivided
land?
         a.   By Gallatin County $____________________
         b.   By the Town of Manhattan if applicable $____________________
         c.   By the school(s) $____________________
      4.   What would be the approximate revenues received by each above taxing
authority if the lots are reclassified, and when the lots are all improved and
built upon? What other taxes would be paid by the subdivision and into what
funds (e.g. personal property taxes on mobile homes are paid into the County
general fund)?
      5.   Would new taxes generated from the subdivision cover additional
public costs?
      6.   How many special improvement districts would be created which would
obligate the Town of Manhattan fiscally or administratively?
      7.   Are any bonding plans proposed which would affect the Town of
Manhattan's bonded indebtedness?
   C.   Effects on the Natural Environment, Historic Buildings, Features, and
Sites
      Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on the natural
environment, historic buildings, features, and sites. Provide responses to the
following questions and provide reference materials as required.
      1.   Describe and locate on a plat overlay or sketch map known or
possible historic, archaeological, paleontological or cultural sites, and
structures or objects which may be affected by the proposed subdivision.
      2.   Describe plans to protect these sites.
      3.   How would the subdivision affect the townscape of Manhattan (e.g.
visual features within the subdivision or on adjacent land)? Describe efforts
to visually blend the proposed development with the existing environment (e.g.
architecture, use of appropriate building materials, colors, street design,
underground utilities and revegetation of earthworks).
   D.   Effects on Wildlife and Wildlife Habitat
      Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on wildlife and
wildlife habitat. Provide responses to the following questions and provide
reference materials as required.
      1.   List species of wildlife which use the area affected by the proposed
subdivision. Describe how the subdivision or any access road affect critical
wildlife areas such as migration routes, nesting areas, wetlands or important
habitat for rare or endangered species?
      2.   How would pets or human activity affect wildlife?
   E.   Effects on the Public Health and Safety
      Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on public health and
safety. Describe any health or safety hazards on or near the subdivision, such
as: natural hazards, drainage problems, heavy traffic, dilapidated structures,
high pressure gas lines, high voltage power lines or irrigation ditches. These
conditions, proposed or existing, should be accurately described with their
origin and location identified. Provide responses to the following questions
and provide reference materials as required.
      1.   Would the subdivision be subject to hazardous conditions due to
highways, railroads, dilapidated structures, high pressure gas lines,
irrigation ditches, or adjacent industrial uses?
      2.   Describe land uses adjacent to the subdivision, and how the
subdivision will affect the adjacent land uses. What existing uses such as feed
lots, processing plants or industrial firms could be subject to law suits or
complaints from residents of the subdivision?
      3.   What public health or safety hazards, such as dangerous traffic or
fire conditions or contamination of water supplies, would be created by the
subdivision?
   F.   Compliance with survey requirements, local subdivision regulations and
review procedures.
      Summarize compliance with survey requirements, local subdivision
regulations and review procedures. Provide responses to the following questions
and provide reference materials as required.
      1.   Does the subdivision meet the requirements of the Montana
Subdivision and Platting Act, the surveying requirements specified in the
Uniform Standards for Monumentation, and these subdivision regulations? (Note
any requirements the proposed subdivision does not comply with, and note any
variance requested.)
      2.   Has the subdivision review procedure been complied with? (Note any
areas where deviations have occurred from the procedures contained in these
regulations.)
   G.   Provision of easements for the location and installation of any planned
utilities.
      Summarize provision of easements for the location and installation of any
planned utilities. Provide responses to the following questions and provide
reference materials as required.
      1.   Indicate what utilities will be supplied.
      2.   Indicate the utility companies providing electrical power, natural
gas, or telephone service. To what extent will these utilities be placed
underground? What arrangements have been made to secure these utilities?
      3.   Describe proposed street lighting and who will provide it.
      4.   Has the preliminary plat been submitted to affected utilities for
review?
      5.   Estimate the completion date of each utility installation.
      6.   Does the subdivision provide easements for the location and
installation of utilities as specified in these regulations?
      7.   Are all easements, both proposed and existing, clearly noted on the
face of the plat?
III.   COMMUNITY IMPACT REPORT
Provide a community impact report containing a statement of estimated number of
people coming into the area as a result of the subdivision, anticipated needs
of the proposed subdivision for public facilities and services, the increased
capital and operating cost to each affected unit of local government. Provide
responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required.
   A.   Education
      1.   Estimate the number of school children that will be added by the
proposed subdivision. Provide a statement from the administrator of the
affected school system indicating whether the increased enrollment can be
accommodated by the present personnel and facilities. If not, estimate the
increased expenditures that would be necessary to do so.
   B.   Streets and Maintenance
      1.   Estimate how much daily traffic the subdivision, when fully
occupied, will generate on existing streets and arterials.
         a.   Describe the capability of existing and proposed streets to
safely accommodate this increased traffic.
         b.   Describe increased maintenance problems and increased cost due to
this increase in volume.
      2.   Describe proposed new public or private access streets including:
         a.   Measures for disposing of storm runoff from streets.
         b.   Type of road surface.
         c.   Facilities for streams or drainage crossing (e.g. culverts,
bridges).
         d.   Seeding of disturbed areas.
      3.   Describe the closing or modification of any existing streets.
      4.   Explain why street access was not provided within the subdivision,
if access to any individual lot is directly from arterial streets or roads.
      5.   Estimate the cost and completion date of the system, and indicate
who will pay the cost of installation, maintenance and snow removal.
   C.   Water, Sewage, and Solid Waste Facilities
      1.   Describe estimated impacts on the existing system, and show evidence
that permission has been granted to hook up to the existing system.
      2.   All water supply and sewage treatment plans and specifications will
be reviewed and approved by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality
(MDEQ) and should be submitted using the appropriate MDEQ subdivision form or
the MDEQ/Local Government Joint Application Form.
      3.   Describe the proposed method of collecting and disposing of solid
waste from the development.
      4.   If use of an existing collection system or disposal facility is
proposed indicate the name and location of the facility.
   D.   Fire and Police Protection
      Can the fire and police protection service needs of the proposed
subdivision be met by present personnel and facilities? If not, what additional
expense would be necessary to make these services adequate, and who would pay
the costs?
   E.   Payment for Extension of Capital Facilities
      Indicate how the subdivider will pay for the cost of extending capital
facilities resulting from expected impacts directly attributable to the
subdivision.
IV.   CONFORMANCE TO MASTER PLAN
   A.   Indicate whether or not the subdivision plat conforms to Manhattan Area
Master Plan.
(1977 Code title 13 app.)
11-11-2: APPENDIX B, SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE PROCEDURES:
In lieu of the completion of the construction of any public improvements prior
to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall provide or cause to be
provided a bond or other reasonable security, in an amount and with surety and
conditions satisfactory to the town of Manhattan, providing for and securing
the construction and installation of the improvements, in accordance with the
specifications set out in section
11-4-2-8 of this title. The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Improvements; Standards; Time Limits: The town of Manhattan shall
specify the improvements that may be completed after the final plat is
approved. The town of Manhattan shall specify that the improvements must be
constructed to standards included in these regulations and other standards the
town of Manhattan may adopt. Those improvements shall include streets, roads,
bridges, culverts, curbs, gutters, drainage ditches, water systems, sewage
systems, sidewalks, walkways, streetlights, street signs, road right of way
clearings, solid waste facilities, park and recreation facilities, mobile home
pads and other improvements as required by the town of Manhattan. The town of
Manhattan shall specify a deadline for completion of the improvements. All
improvements shall be completed no later than eighteen (18) months from the
date the final plat is filed with the clerk and recorder. The town of Manhattan
may grant one extension of up to one year, unless otherwise agreed to by the
town.
   B.   Projected Costs: The subdivider shall provide three (3) bids for the
cost of installation of the public improvements. The town of Manhattan may
direct the city engineer or designated representatives to review all
improvements, plans and specifications and projected costs of completing the
improvements.
   C.   Improvements Agreement: The subdivider shall enter into an improvements
agreement which shall follow the model subdivision improvements agreement
contained in appendix C, form 5 of this chapter.
   D.   Improvements Guarantee: The subdivider shall provide a guarantee that
the improvements will be completed. The guarantee shall have a value equal to
one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the highest of the three (3) bids provided
by the developer for the projected costs of completing improvements. The
guarantee shall specify procedures for the town of Manhattan to obtain the
funds should the subdivider fail to satisfactorily complete the improvements.
The types of guarantees acceptable to the town of Manhattan are described in
subsection H of this section. The method of guarantee shall be subject to town
of Manhattan approval.
   E.   Inspection And Certification:
      1.   Upon completion of required improvements, the subdivider shall file
with the town of Manhattan a statement certifying that:
         a.   All required improvements are complete.
         b.   These improvements are in compliance with the minimum standards
specified by the town of Manhattan for their construction.
         c.   The subdivider knows of no defects in these improvements.
         d.   These improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or
liens.
         e.   All applicable fees and surcharges have been paid.
      2.   The subdivider shall also file with the town of Manhattan copies of
final plans, profiles, grades and specifications for improvements.
      3.   The town of Manhattan will provide for inspection of all required
improvements by the city engineer or a designated representative before final
plat approval when installation is a condition of approval or before releasing
the subdivider from the subdivision improvements agreement. Upon completion of
the inspection, the inspecting engineer shall file with the town of Manhattan a
statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed in the
required manner or listing the defects in those improvements. Only after the
inspecting engineer certifies that the improvements are complete and free from
defect, and after receipt of the other statements detailed above, the town of
Manhattan shall completely release the subdivider from the subdivision
improvements agreement.
   F.   Reduction And Release Of Guarantee: The town of Manhattan shall reduce
bond requirements commensurate with the completion of improvements as specified
in the improvements agreement. The proportion of the collateral released may
not exceed the proportion which the improvements completed represent of all
originally required improvements. An inspection of the completed portion will
be required. Upon acceptance of the final portion of improvements, the town of
Manhattan shall authorize the release of the remaining portion of the
improvement guarantee.
Prior to the release of the guarantee, a copy of the plans, stamped by the
project surveyor or engineer in accordance with their licensing provision,
shall be filed in the clerk and recorder's office with reference to the final
subdivision plat.
   G.   Failure To Satisfactorily Complete Improvements: If the town of
Manhattan determines that any improvements are not constructed in compliance
with the agreed specifications, it shall furnish the subdivider with a list of
specific deficiencies and may withhold collateral sufficient to ensure proper
completion. If the town of Manhattan determines that the subdivider will not
construct any or all of the improvements to required specifications, or within
time limits, it may withdraw collateral and use these funds to construct the
improvements to meet specifications. Unused portions of these funds shall be
returned to the subdivider or crediting institution.
   H.   Acceptable Forms Of Improvements Guarantees: The subdivider shall
provide a financial security guarantee from the following listed methods in the
amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the highest bid for the estimated
total cost of installing all required improvements.
      1.   Escrow Account: The subdivider shall deposit cash, or collateral
readily convertible to cash at face value, either with the town of Manhattan or
in escrow with an escrow agency. The use of collateral other than cash, and the
selection of the escrow agency where funds are to be deposited must be approved
by the town of Manhattan. Where an escrow account is to be used, the subdivider
shall give the town of Manhattan his agreement with the escrow agency
guaranteeing the following:
         a.   That the funds in the escrow account are to be held in trust
until released by the town of Manhattan and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider as security for any other obligation during that period.
         b.   That, should the subdivider fail to complete the required
improvements, the escrow agency shall immediately make the funds in escrow
available to the town of Manhattan for completing these improvements.
      2.   Surety Performance Bond: The subdivider shall provide a surety
performance bond which shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state of Montana and acceptable as a surety to the town of
Manhattan and countersigned by a Montana agent. The bond shall be payable to
the town of Manhattan. The bond shall be in a form which can be reduced
incrementally and shall be in effect until the completed improvements are
accepted by the town of Manhattan.
      3.   Sequential Development: In lieu of requiring a bond or other means
of security for the construction or installation of the required public
improvements, the town of Manhattan may approve an incremental payment or
guarantee plan. The improvements in a prior increment must be completed or the
payment or guarantee of payment for the costs of the improvements incurred in a
prior increment must be satisfied before development of future increments. The
town of Manhattan may grant final plat approval to only one increment at a
time. The plat approval for each succeeding increment will be contingent on
completion of all improvements in each preceding increment. Improvements in
each increment of the subdivision must be completed or guaranteed through the
use of one of the other methods detailed in this section before final plat
approval will be granted.
      4.   Special Improvement District: The town of Manhattan may enter into
an agreement with the subdivider, and the owners of the property proposed for
subdivision if other than the subdivider, that the installation of required
improvements will be financed through a special improvement district created
pursuant to title 7, chapter 12, Montana Code Annotated. This agreement must
provide that no lots within the subdivision will be sold, rented, or leased,
and no contract for the sale of lots executed, before the improvement district
has been created. Subdivision improvements must be completed or guaranteed
before final plat approval will be granted. An agreement to finance
improvements through creating a special improvement district constitutes a
waiver by the subdivider, or the other owners of the property, of the right to
protest, or petition against, the creation of the district under either section
7-12-2109 or 7-12-4110, Montana Code Annotated. This waiver must be filed with
the Gallatin County clerk and recorder and will be deemed to run with the land.
      5.   Letter Of Credit: Subject to town of Manhattan approval, the
subdivider shall provide the town of Manhattan a letter of credit from a bank
or other reputable financial institution certifying the following:
         a.   That the creditor guarantees funds in an amount equal to the
cost, as approved by the town of Manhattan, of completing all required
improvements.
         b.   That if the subdivider fails to complete the specified
improvements within the required period, the creditor will immediately pay to
the town upon presentation of sight draft without further action, an amount of
cash necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit
of credit stated in the letter.
         c.   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn until released by
the town of Manhattan. (Ord. 08-006, 12-9-2008)
11-11-3: APPENDIX C, SAMPLE FORMS, NOTICES AND CERTIFICATES:
   FORM 1
   PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION FORM
                  Date   
1.   Name of Subdivision    
2.   Location in Manhattan    
3.   Name of Subdivider    
   Legal Description (up to 1/4 Section)             Sec            T
            R            
4.   Name(s) of Surveyor, Engineer, a/o Designer    
Address(es):    
Phone No.(s):    
5.   Name of Person or Firm Preparing environmental assessment
6.   Description Date: Proposed Use                    
Gross Area of Subdivision    
   Number of Lots    
   Average Lot Size    
Existing Zoning                      
7.   Proposed Improvements; (Please note those to be installed or guaranteed).
 
  Improvements Installed Guaranteed
a.                     
b.                     
c.                     
d.                     
e.                     
 
8.   List of Material submitted with this application:
 
a.    e.    
b.    f.    
c.    g.    
d.    h.    
 
   FORM 1-A
   SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION
   Date                     
1.   Name of Subdivision   
2.   Location:               1/4 Section               Township              
Range             For Amended Plats: Lot(s)           Block(s)
                                             
Subdivision
3.   Have water rights been severed from the property? Yes       No      
   Unknown      
Names, addresses and telephone numbers of owners of water rights (if known):
4.   Have mineral rights been severed from the property? Yes       No      
Unknown      
Names, addresses and telephone numbers of owners of mineral rights (if known):
5.   Have development rights been severed from the property? Yes       No      
Name, address and telephone number of owner of development rights (if known):
      6.      Have utility easements been recorded to serve the property? Yes
      No      
Attach copies of utility easements recorded to serve the property to be
subdivided.
7.   Is legal access provided to each lot within the subdivision? Yes       No
     
Attach copies of deeds, easements, dedications or other documentation which
provide legal access to each lot within the proposed subdivision.
I do hereby depose and say that all the statements and information contained in
all exhibits transmitted herewith are true.
                                                                                
Owner Of Record            Subdivider (if different than owner)
I hereby depose and say that all the statements and information and the
statements and information contained in all exhibits transmitted herewith are
true. I hereby apply to the                                     of
                                   
(Town of Manhattan)            (Gallatin County)
for approval of the preliminary plat for    
                  (name of subdivision)
permission for Town/County officials to enter the property.
                                                  
Owner of Record            Subdivider (if different than owner)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------
   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Date Received                                  Application No.                
Date of Public Hearing                         Recommendation              
Reasons    
Date                          
                                               
Town of Manhattan Planner
   FORM 2
   FINAL PLAT APPLICATION FORM
   Date                     
1.   Name of Subdivision    
2.   Location:               1/4 Section               Township              
Range             For Amended Plats: Lot(s)           Block(s)
                                 
Subdivision
3.   Name, address and telephone number of subdivider and owners of record:
4.   Name, address and telephone number of persons or firms providing services
and information (e.g. surveyor, engineer, designer, planning consultant,
attorney)    
                                
5.   Descriptive Data:
a.   Gross area in acres    
b.   Number of lots or rental spaces    
c.   Existing zoning or other regulations    
6.   Date Preliminary Plat Approved:    
7.   Any Conditions?                          (If yes, attach list of
conditions.)
8.   Any Deed Restrictions or covenants?                       (If Yes, attach
a copy.)
9.   All improvements installed?                     (If No, attach a
subdivision improvements agreement or guarantees.)
10.   List of materials submitted with this application:
 
a.    e.    
b.    f.    
c.    g.    
d.    h.    
 
I do hereby depose and say that all the statements and information and the
statements and information contained in all exhibits transmitted herewith are
true. I hereby apply to the Town of Manhattan of Gallatin County for approval
of the final plat of  (Name of Subdivision) .
                                                      
Owner of Record      Subdivider (if different than owner)
----------------------------------------------------------------
   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Date Received                    Application No.                  
Date of Public Hearing              Recommendation
Reasons    
Date                               
                                              
Town of Manhattan Planner
   FORM 3
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
   (To be submitted with application for approval of final subdivision plat)
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION
I,  Name of Subdivider) , and I,  (Name of Subdivider's Registered Engineer) ,
a registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of
Montana, hereby certify that the following public improvements, required as a
condition of approval of  (Name of Subdivision) , have been installed in
conformance with the attached engineering specifications and plans: (List the
improvements actually installed.)
Signature of Subdivider               Date
Signature of Professional Engineer            Date
Registration No.
(Engineer's Seal)
Address
   FORM 4
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEYOR FOR FINAL PLAT
State of Montana   )
         ) ss.
County of                   )
I,  (Name of Surveyor) , a registered Land Surveyor, do hereby certify that I
have performed the survey shown on the attached plat of  (Name of Subdivision)
; that such survey was made on  (Date of Survey) ; that said survey is true and
complete as shown and that the monuments found and set are of the character and
occupy the positions shown thereon.
Dated this        day of                , 19    .
               Signature of Surveyor
   (Seal)            Registration No.                   Address
   FORM 5
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT
The parties to this Subdivision Improvements Agreement ("this agreement") are
                                         ("the Developer") and Town of
Manhattan.
WHEREAS, the Developer also desires to defer construction of improvements
described in Attachment B;
WHEREAS, the purpose of this Agreement is to protect the Town of Manhattan and
is not intended for the benefit of contractors, suppliers, laborers or others
providing work, services, or materials to the Subdivision, or for the benefit
of lot or home buyers in the Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, the mutual promises, covenants and obligations contained in this
Agreement are authorized by state law and the Town of Manhattan Subdivision
Regulations.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, The Parties hereby agree as follows:
      1.   Effective Date: The effective date of this Agreement shall be the
date that final subdivision plat approval is granted by the Town of Manhattan.
      2.   Attachments: The Attachments cited herein are hereby made a part of
this Agreement.
   Developer's Obligations
      3.   Improvements: The Developer shall construct and install, at his own
expense, those subdivision improvements listed in Attachment B of this
Agreement. The Developer's obligation to complete the improvements shall arise
upon approval of the final subdivision plat, shall not be conditioned on the
commencement of construction in the development or sale of any lots or
improvements within the subdivision, and shall be independent of any
obligations of the Town of Manhattan contained in this Agreement.
      4.   Security: To secure the performance of his obligations under this
Agreement, the Developer shall deposit with the Town of Manhattan on or before
the effective date, an Irrevocable Letter of Credit (a Surety Performance Bond,
or other financial security acceptable to the local officials) in the amount of
$                    . The letter of credit shall be issued by  (lending
institution) , be payable at sight to the Town of Manhattan and bear an
expiration date not sooner than 4 years after the effective date of this
Agreement. The letter of credit shall be payable to the Town of Manhattan at
any time upon presentation of (1) a sight draft drawn on the issuing lending
institution in the amount up to $                    , (2) a signed statement
or affidavit executed by an authorized Town of Manhattan official stating that
the Developer is in default under this Agreement; and (3) the original copy of
the letter of credit.
      5.   Standards: The Developer shall construct the required improvements
according to the standards and specifications required by the Town of Manhattan
as specified in Attachment D of this Agreement.
      6.   Warranty: The Developer warrants that each and every improvement
shall be free from defects for a period of 1 year from the date that the Town
of Manhattan accepts the dedication of the last improvement completed by the
Developer.
      7.   Commencement and Completion Periods: The Developer shall complete
all of the required improvements within eighteen (18) months from the effective
date of this Agreement.
      8.   Compliance with Law: The Developer shall comply with all relevant
laws, ordinances, regulations and requirements in effect at the time of
subdivision plat approval when meeting his obligations under this Agreement.
   Town of Manhattan's Obligations
      9.   Inspection and Certification: (A) The Town of Manhattan shall
provide for inspection of the improvements as they are completed and, where
found acceptable, shall certify those improvements as complying with the
standards and specifications set forth in Attachment D of this Agreement. The
inspection and certification, shall occur within fourteen (14) days of notice
by the Developer that the improvements are complete and he desires Town of
Manhattan inspection and certification. Before requesting Town of Manhattan
certification of any improvement the Developer shall present to the Town of
Manhattan valid lien waivers from all persons providing materials or performing
work on the improvement. (B) Certification by the Town of Manhattan does not
constitute a waiver by the Town of Manhattan of the right to draw funds under
the letter of credit in the event defects in or failure of any improvement are
found following the certification.
      10.   Notice of Defect: The Town of Manhattan shall provide timely notice
to the Developer whenever inspection reveals that an improvement does not
conform to the standards and specifications set forth in Attachment D, or is
otherwise defective. The Developer shall have thirty (30) days from the date
the notice is issued to remedy the defect. The Town of Manhattan may not
declare a default under this Agreement during the thirty (30) day remedy period
unless the Developer clearly indicates he does not intend to correct the
defect. The Developer shall have no right to correct the defect in, or failure
of, any improvement found after the Town of Manhattan accepts dedication of the
improvements.
      11.   Reduction of Security: After the acceptance of any improvement, the
amount that the Town of Manhattan is entitled to draw on the letter of credit
shall be reduced by an amount equal to 90 percent of the estimated cost of the
improvement as shown in Attachment B. At the request of the Developer, the Town
of Manhattan shall execute a certificate verifying the acceptance of the
improvement and waiving its right to draw on the letter of credit to the extent
of the amount. Upon the certification of all of the improvements the balance
that may be drawn under the credit shall be available to the Town of Manhattan
for the one (1) year warranty period plus an additional ninety (90) days.
      12.   Use of Proceeds: The Town of Manhattan shall use funds drawn under
the letter of credit only for the purposes of completing the improvements or
correcting defects in or failure of the improvements.
   Other Provisions
      13.   Events of Default: The following conditions, occurrences or actions
shall constitute a default by the Developer during the completion period:
a.   failure to complete construction of the improvements within eighteen (18)
months of final subdivision plat approval;
b.   failure to remedy the defective construction of any improvement within the
remedy period;
c.   insolvency of the Developer or the filing of a petition for bankruptcy;
d.   foreclosure of the property or assignment or conveyance of the property in
lieu of foreclosure.
      14.   Measure of Damages: The measure of damages for breach of this
Agreement shall be the reasonable cost of completing the improvements. For
purposes of this Agreement the estimated cost of the improvements as specified
in Attachment B shall be prima facie evidence of the minimum cost of
completion. However, neither that amount nor the amount of the letter of credit
establishes the maximum amount of the Developer's liability. The Town of
Manhattan shall be entitled to complete all unfinished improvements at the time
of default regardless of the extent to which development has taken place in the
Subdivision or whether development ever was commenced.
      15.   Local Government Rights Upon Default: (A) Upon the occurrence of
any event of default, the Town of Manhattan may draw on the letter of credit to
the extent of the face amount of the credit less the estimated cost (as shown
in Attachment B) of all improvements previously certified by the Town of
Manhattan. The Town of Manhattan shall have the right to complete improvements
itself or contract with a third party for completion, or the Town of Manhattan
may assign the proceeds of the letter of credit to a subsequent developer who
has acquired the Subdivision and who shall have the same rights of completion
as the Town of Manhattan if and only if the subsequent developer agrees in
writing to complete the unfinished improvements. (B) In addition, the Town of
Manhattan may suspend final plat approval during which time the Developer shall
have no right to sell, transfer or otherwise convey lots or homes within the
Subdivision without the express approval of the Town of Manhattan or until the
improvements are completed and certified by the Town of Manhattan.
      16.   Indemnification: The Developer agrees to indemnify and hold the
Town of Manhattan harmless for and against all claims, costs and liability of
every kind and nature, for injury or damage received or sustained by any person
or entity in connection with, or on account of the performance of work under
this Agreement. The Developer is not an employee or agent of the Town of
Manhattan.
      17.   Amendment or Modification: The Parties to this Agreement may amend
or modify this Agreement only by written instrument executed on behalf of the
Town of Manhattan and by the Developer.
      18.   Attorney's Fees: Should either party be required to resort to
litigation, arbitration or mediation to enforce the terms of this Agreement,
the prevailing party, whether plaintiff or defendant, shall be entitled to
costs, including reasonable attorney's fees and expert witness fees, from the
opposing party. If the court, arbitrator or mediator awards relief to both
parties, each shall bear its own costs in their entirety.
      19.   Third Party Rights: No person or entity who is not party to this
Agreement shall have any right of action under this Agreement, except that if
the Town of Manhattan does not exercise its rights within sixty (60) days
following an event of default, a purchaser of a lot or home in the Subdivision
may bring an action in mandamus to compel the Town of Manhattan to exercise its
rights.
      20.   Scope: The Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties and no statement, promise or inducement that is not contained in this
Agreement shall be binding on the parties.
      21.   Time: For the purpose of computing the commencement and completion
periods, and time periods for Town of Manhattan action, times in which war,
civil disasters, acts of God or extreme weather conditions occur shall not be
included if the events prevent the Developer or the Town of Manhattan from
performing the obligations under this Agreement.
      22.   Assigns: The benefits of this Agreement to the Developer may not be
assigned without the express written approval of the Town of Manhattan. Such
approval may not be withheld unreasonably, but any unapproved assignment is
void. There is no prohibition on the right of the Town of Manhattan to assign
its rights under this Agreement.
The Town of Manhattan shall release the original Developer's letter of credit
if it accepts new security from any developer or lender who obtains the
property. However, no action by the Town of Manhattan shall constitute a
release of the original developer from his liability under this Agreement.
      23.   Severability: If any part, term or provision of this Agreement is
held by the courts to be illegal the illegality shall not affect the validity
of any other part, term or provision, and the rights of the parties shall be
construed as if the part, term or provision were never part of the Agreement.
Dated this            day of                     19     .
____________________________________________       
____________________________________________ Mayor, Town of
Manhattan         Developer
   FORM 6
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
Letter of Credit No.                     Date______________________
Name of Local Government_______________________________________________________
___________
Address   _______________________________________________________
_________________________________
      _______________________________________________________
_________________________________
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish in your favor our Irrevocable Letter of Credit
#______________________for the account of  (Developer) , available by your
drafts at sight up to an aggregate amount of $                    . Should
(Developer)  default or fail to complete the improvements under the terms
specified in the attached subdivision improvements agreement for  (name of
subdivision)  we shall pay on demand your sight draft or drafts for such funds,
to the limit of credit set forth herein, as are required to complete said
improvements.
All drafts must be presented prior to  (expiration date)  and this Letter of
Credit must accompany the final draft for payment. Drafts drawn hereunder must
be by sight draft marked:
"Drawn under  (lending institution) , Letter of Credit
#______________________dated  (date of Letter of Credit) ," and the amount
drawn endorsed on the reverse hereof by the lending institution.
Unless otherwise stated, this Letter of Credit is subject to the Uniform
Customs and Practices for Commercial Documentary Credits (1983 Revision)
International Chamber of Commerce. We hereby agree with the drawers, endorsers
and bona fide holders of the drafts drawn under and in compliance with the
terms of this Credit that these drafts shall be duly honored upon presentation
to the drawee.
This letter of credit may not be withdrawn or reduced in any amount prior to
its expiration date except by your draft or written release.
____________________________________________
(Lending Institution)
____________________________________________
(Signature and Title of Official)
   FORM 7
   CERTIFICATE OF DEDICATION FOR FINAL PLAT
   (Use only when improvements are being dedicated to the public)
(I) (We), the undersigned property owner(s) certify that (I) (we) have caused
to be surveyed, subdivided and platted into lots, blocks, streets, and alleys,
as shown by the plat hereto annexed, the following described land in the Town
of Manhattan, to-wit:
   (Exterior boundary description of area contained in plat and total acreage).
The above described tract of land is to be known and designated as (Name of
Subdivision), and the land included in all streets, avenues, alleys and parks
or public squares shown on said plat are hereby granted and donated to the use
of the public forever. The undersigned hereby grants unto each and every person
firm or corporation, whether public or private, providing or offering to
provide telephone, telegraph, electric power, gas, television, water or sewer
service to the public, the right to joint use of an easement for the
construction, maintenance, repair and removal of their lines and other
facility, in, over, under and across each area designated on this plat as
"utility easement" to have and to hold forever.
Dated this       day of                     , 19     .
   (Acknowledged and notarized signature of all record owners of the platted
property)
   FORM 8
   CERTIFICATE OF CONSENT TO DEDICATE LAND BY ENCUMBRANCERS
(I) (We), the undersigned encumbrancer(s), do hereby join in and consent to the
annexed plat and release (my) (our) respective liens, claims and encumbrances
as to any portion of said lands shown on such plat as being dedicated to the
use of the public forever.
Dated this       day of                     , 19     .
   (Acknowledged and notarized signatures of all Encumbrances of record)
   FORM 9
   CERTIFICATE OF WAIVER OF PARK LAND DEDICATION
   AND ACCEPTANCE OF CASH IN LIEU OF LAND
I,  (Name of Town Clerk/Treasurer) , of the Town of Manhattan, Montana, do
certify that the following order was made by the Council of the Town of
Manhattan at a meeting thereof held on the            day of
                    , and entered into the proceedings of said Body to-wit:
"Inasmuch as the dedication of park land within the platted area of  (Name of
Subdivision)  is undesirable for the reasons set forth in the minutes of this
meeting, it is hereby ordered by the Town of Manhattan that land dedication for
park purposes be waived and that cash in lieu of park land with the provisions
of Title 76, Chapter 3, MCA."
In witness whereof, I have hereunto affixed the seal of the Town of Manhattan,
Montana this            day of                     .
(Seal)                   (Signature of Clerk/Treasurer)
   FORM 10
   CERTIFICATE OF EXAMINING LAND SURVEYOR
   (When required)
I,  (Name of Examining Land Surveyor) , acting as an Examining Land Surveyor
for the Town of Manhattan, Montana, do hereby certify that I have examined the
final plat of  (Name of Subdivision)  and find that the survey data shown
thereon meet the conditions set forth by or pursuant to Title 76, Chapter 3,
Part 4, MCA.
Dated this       day of                     , 19     .
               (Signature)____________________________________________
                (Name of Surveyor)______________________
               Registration No.____________________________________________
   FORM 11
   CERTIFICATE OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL -- TOWN
The Council of the Town of Manhattan, Montana, does hereby certify that it has
examined this subdivision plat and, having found the same to conform to law,
approves it, and hereby accepts the dedication to public use of any and all
lands shown on this plat as being dedicated to such use, this            day of
                  , 19     .
by   ____________________________________________    
____________________________________________
   Town Clerk/Treasurer            Mayor, Town of Manhattan
(1977 Code title 13 app.)
11-11-4: APPENDIX D, FEE SCHEDULE:
SUBDIVISION REVIEW FEES. The purpose of these fees is to cover the costs of
processing applications and reviewing plats, plat supplements, advertising,
holding public bearings, and other expenses related to the subdivision review
process. The subdivider shall pay a nonrefundable review fee at the time of
application prior to final approval. All fees as determined from time to time
by resolution of the Town Council shall be payable to the Town of Manhattan.
(1977 Code title 13 app.; amd. 2000 Code)
11-11-5: APPENDIX E, SUBDIVISION APPEAL PROCESS:
STEP 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
A party who is aggrieved by the Planning Board reports, recommendations to
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a proposed preliminary plat or
final subdivision plat, or findings of facts, must submit a written statement
to the Town of Manhattan detailing the reasons for their objection and include
evidence that justifies the objection. Seven (7) copies of this written
statement must be submitted to the Town of Manhattan a minimum of seven (7)
days before their scheduled meeting to act on the subdivision application
within the specified review period.
STEP 2 - APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT
   (1)   A party who is aggrieved by a decision of the Town of Manhattan to
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a proposed preliminary plat or
final subdivision plat may, within thirty (30) days after the decision, appeal
to the district court of Gallatin County. The petition must specify the grounds
upon which the appeal is made.
   (2)   The following parties may appeal under the provisions of subsection
(1):
      (a) the subdivider;
      (b) a landowner with a property boundary contiguous to the proposed
subdivision or a private landowner with property within the county or
municipality where the subdivision is proposed if that landowner can show a
likelihood of material injury to the landowner's property or its value;
      (c) the county commissioners of the county where the subdivision is
proposed; and
      (d) a third-class municipality or a town, as described in 7-1-4111, MCA,
if a subdivision is proposed within one (1) mile of its limits.
   (3)   For the purposes of this section, "aggrieved" means a person who can
demonstrate a specific personal and legal interest, as distinguished from a
general interest, who has been or is likely to be specially and injuriously
affected by the decision.
(1977 Code title 13 app.)
11-11-6: APPENDIX F, DEVELOPING A MAJOR SUBDIVISION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1666.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1668.gif]
 
 
(1977 Code title 13 app.)
11-11-7: APPENDIX G, DEVELOPING A MINOR SUBDIVISION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1670.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/790a57cf1840d9a8034146ba79302833bff0db74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1672.gif]
 
 
(1977 Code title 13 app.)
11-11-8: APPENDIX H, PRELIMINARY PLAT FORM, CONTENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat Subdivision Application Form: The subdivider shall
submit a completed subdivision application form that is signed by the landowner
(s) of record.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Review Fee: The subdivider shall submit the required
review fee.
   C.   Preliminary Plat Form, Contents, And Supplements: The subdivider shall
submit an eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") and an eighteen inch by
twenty four inch (18" x 24") (or 24 inches by 36 inches) preliminary plat
completed by a land surveyor.
The following information must be provided on the preliminary plat or in
supplements to the preliminary plat:
      1.   The subdivision or development name (the title must contain the
words "plat" and/or "subdivision");
      2.   The legal description, including section, township, and range, and
any underlying survey data;
      3.   A north arrow;
      4.   The scale used on the plat;
      5.   The certification of a professional land surveyor;
      6.   The certification of a professional engineer (if the preliminary
plat application or data includes engineering plans or specifications);
      7.   The names of all owners of record and the subdivider, if different
from the owner(s);
      8.   The date the preliminary plat is completed;
      9.   Proposed lot layout with approximate dimensions and sizes;
      10.   Lots and blocks identified by number or letter;
      11.   The use of each lot, if other than for single-family residential;
      12.   The exterior boundaries of the parcel proposed for subdivision with
bearings, distances, and curve data indicated outside of the boundary lines.
When the plat is bounded by an irregular shoreline or body of water, the
bearings and distances of a closing meander traverse shall be given;
      13.   All existing streets, roads, highways, avenues, alleys, and/or
access easements within or adjacent to the subject property;
      14.   All proposed streets, roads, alleys, avenues, and easements; the
width of the easement or right of way, grades, curvature of each;
      15.   Existing and proposed road and street names;
      16.   Proposed location of intersections for any subdivision requiring
access to state or local streets, roads, avenues, alleys, or highways;
      17.   The names of adjoining platted subdivisions and recording
information from adjoining subdivisions, certificates of survey, or unplatted
lands;
      18.   The approximate location of all section corners or legal
subdivision corners of sections pertinent to the subdivision boundary;
      19.   Approximate area, location, boundaries, and dimensions of all
parks, common grounds, and other grounds dedicated for public use;
      20.   The total gross area of the subdivision and the total net area,
exclusive of public areas and rights of way;
      21.   Existing and proposed infrastructure and proposed utilities
including:
         a.   The approximate location, size, and depth of existing and
proposed sanitary and storm sewers;
         b.   The approximate location, size, and depth of existing and
proposed water mains, lines, wells, and facilities; and
         c.   The approximate locations of gas lines, fire hydrants or
firefighting water storage facilities, electric and telephone lines, and
streetlights;
      22.   A vicinity sketch showing:
         a.   The approximate locations of all existing buildings, structures,
and other improvements;
         b.   Ownership of lands immediately adjoining a subdivision, and
existing buildings, structures and other improvements on those lands; and
         c.   Any existing or proposed zoning of the tract and adjacent lands,
if applicable;
      23.   A topographic map:
         a.   For any land area which will be subdivided or disturbed, contour
intervals of two feet (2') where the average slope is less than ten (10);
intervals of five feet (5') where the average slope is greater than ten (10)
and less than fifteen (15); and intervals of ten feet (10') where the average
slope is fifteen (15) or greater.
         b.   Slopes greater than twenty five (25) shall be shown as no build
zones;
      24.   A grading and drainage plan that includes:
         a.   Proposed grades of all streets and roads;
         b.   Proposed drainage facilities for all lots, blocks, and other
areas displaying accurate dimensions, courses, and elevations;
         c.   Existing and proposed contours, using the contour requirements of
a topography map;
         d.   Graded slopes;
         e.   Calculations for a 10-year frequency 1-hour storm and a method to
mitigate adverse impacts for a 100-year frequency 1-hour storm;
         f.   Construction procedures, slope protection, or information
describing the ultimate destinations of storm runoff used to minimize erosion;
and
         g.   Slope stability report shall be completed if the proposed
subdivision includes areas with the potential for landsliding or slope
instability. The report must be completed by a qualified soil or geotechnical
engineer and indicate the locations, character, and extent of all areas of all
slope stability, and these areas shall be shown on the plat;
      25.   Engineering plans for all public and private improvements;
      26.   Overall development plan and if the improvements are to be
completed in phases, the approximate area of each phase shall be shown on the
plat;
      27.   Abstract of title (or title report) dated not more than ninety (90)
days prior to the date of submittal;
      28.   Lien holders' acknowledgment of subdivision for each lien holder
identified on the abstract of title or title report;
      29.   Documentation of legal and physical access;
      30.   Documentation of existing easements, including those for
agricultural water user facilities;
      31.   Existing covenants and deed restrictions;
      32.   Existing water rights;
      33.   Existing mineral rights;
      34.   Names and addresses of all adjoining property owners;
      35.   A proposed road plan and profile that includes:
         a.   Street names;
         b.   Right of way or easement widths;
         c.   Pavement widths;
         d.   Street grades;
         e.   Pavement and base thickness;
         f.   Typical cross sections for each type of road;
         g.   Road profiles and cross sections for all proposed streets and
roads which have grades exceeding five (5), or cuts and fills exceeding three
feet (3');
         h.   The type and location of sidewalks and curbs (where required);
         i.   The minimum site distances at corners;
         j.   The minimum curb radii at corners;
         k.   For cul-de-sac streets:
            (1)   Widths of turnaround radii;
            (2)   Minimum right of way widths at the turnarounds;
            (3)   Minimum pavement or road surface width at the turnarounds;
            (4)   Total lengths of the streets;
         l.   The locations and characteristics of bridges and culverts;
         m.   The locations and dimensions of adjoining lots and open spaces;
         n.   The locations and widths of easements and dedicated land, which
provide a buffer between the subdivision lots and streets;
         o.   Typical grading and location of intersections with private
driveways; and
         p.   Description of how the roads will be maintained;
      36.   Encroachment permits from Montana department of transportation or
the local jurisdiction;
      37.   Proposed easements;
      38.   Proposed disposition of water rights;
      39.   Proposed disposition of mineral rights;
      40.   Park land dedication calculations, including a property valuation
assessment or appraisal if cash in lieu of park land is proposed;
      41.   Environmental assessment and/or summary of probable impacts
including:
         a.   Proof that the subdivider has submitted for review copies of the
subdivision application and environmental assessment, if applicable, to the
public utilities and agencies of the local, state, and federal governments
identified during the preapplication meeting or subsequently identified as
having an interest in the proposed subdivision; and
         b.   An explanation of how the subdivider has responded to the
comments of the subdivision administrator at the preapplication meeting;
      42.   Transportation impact analysis or transportation plan;
      43.   Fire risk rating analysis and fire prevention plan;
      44.   Weed management plan and revegetation plan;
      45.   Property owners' association documents shall accompany the
preliminary plat, and at a minimum shall provide the information, form, and
contents;
      46.   FIRM or FEMA panel map and/or letter identifying floodplain status
and other hydrologic characteristics including surface water bodies, designated
floodplain and areas of riparian resource;
      47.   a.   Required water and sanitation information, including:
            (1)   Provide the following attachments to the preliminary plat:
               (A)   A vicinity map or plan that shows:
                  (i)   The location, within one hundred feet (100') outside of
the exterior of the property line of the subdivision and on the proposed lots,
of:
                     (a) Floodplains;
                     (b) Surface water features;
                     (c) Springs;
                     (d) Irrigation ditches;
                     (e) Existing, previously approved, and, for parcels less
than twenty (20) acres, proposed water wells and wastewater treatment systems;
                     (f) For parcels less than twenty (20) acres, mixing zones
identified; and
                     (g) The representative drain field site used for the soil
profile description; and
                  (ii)   The location, within five hundred feet (500') outside
of the exterior property line of the subdivision, of public water and sewer
facilities;
               (B)   A description of the proposed subdivision's water supply
systems, stormwater systems, solid waste disposal systems, and wastewater
treatment systems, as provided below, including whether the water supply and
wastewater treatment systems are individual, shared, multiple user, or public
as those systems are defined in the rule published by the DEQ;
               (C)   A drawing of the conceptual lot layout at a scale no
smaller than one inch equal to two hundred feet (1" = 200') that shows all
information required for a lot layout document in rules adopted by DEQ pursuant
to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-104;
         b.   Water supply:
            (1)   High ground water report indicating there is not a problem
with high ground water present on the property proposed for subdivision. When
evidence of high ground water is present, the developer must submit plans that
are prepared by a professional engineer to mitigate the problem;
            (2)   A vicinity map or plan that shows:
               (A)   The location, within one hundred feet (100') outside of
the exterior property line of the subdivision and on the proposed lots of:
                  (i)   Floodplains;
                  (ii)   Surface water features;
                  (iii)   Springs;
                  (iv)   Irrigation ditches;
                  (v)   Existing, previously approved, and, for parcels less
than twenty (20) acres, proposed water wells and wastewater treatment systems;
                  (vi)   For parcels less than twenty (20) acres, identify
mixing zones;
               (B)   The location, within five hundred feet (500') outside the
exterior property line of the subdivision, of public water and sewer
facilities;
            (3)   A description of the proposed subdivision's water supply
systems, stormwater systems, solid waste disposal systems, and wastewater
treatment systems, including whether the water supply and wastewater treatment
systems are individual, shared, multiple user, or public as those systems are
defined in rules published by the department of environmental quality in the
administrative rules of Montana, or section 76-4-101 et seq., Montana Code
Annotated, including the following information:
               (A)   For a public water system:
                  (i)   If an existing system is to be used:
                     (a) Identify the system and the person, firm, or agency
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
                     (b) Indicate the system's capacity to handle additional
load and its distance from the development;
                     (c) Provide evidence that permission to connect has been
granted;
                     (d) Provide the following as attachments:
                        A map or plat showing the location, sizes, and depth of
any existing water lines and facilities which will directly serve parcels
within the proposed development;
                        Plans and specifications for all proposed extensions
and additional lines and facilities as required by ARM 17.36.328-330 and
circular DEQ-1 or circular DEQ-3;
                        Evidence of sufficient water quality in accordance with
the rule adopted by the DEQ pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-
104;
                  (ii)   If a new system is proposed:
                     (a) Provide evidence of adequate water availability:
                        Obtained from well logs or testing of on site or nearby
wells;
                        Obtained from information contained in published
hydrogeological reports; or
                        As otherwise specified by rules adopted by the DEQ
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-104;
                     (b) Indicate who will install the system, who will bear
the costs, when it will be completed, and who will own it;
                     (c) Provide plans and specifications for all proposed
extensions and additional lines and facilities as required by ARM 17.36.328-330
and circular DEQ-1 or circular DEQ-3;
                     (d) Evidence of sufficient water quality in accordance
with rules adopted by the DEQ pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-
104;
               (B)   If an individual water supply system is proposed for each
parcel:
                  (i)   Indicate the distance to the nearest public water
system.
                  (ii)   Attach a copy of the lot layout showing the proposed
location of each spring, well, or cistern and indicating the distance to
existing or proposed wastewater treatment systems.
                  (iii)   Evidence of sufficient water quality in accordance
with rules adopted by the DEQ pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-
104;
               (C) For a multiple user water system:
                  (i)   If an existing system is to be used:
                     (a) Identify the system and the person, firm, or agency
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
                     (b) Indicate the system's capacity to handle additional
load and its distance from the development;
                     (c) Provide evidence that permission to connect to the
system has been granted;
                  (ii)   Provide the following attachments:
                     (a) Map or plat showing location, sizes, and depth of any
existing water supply lines and facilities which may directly serve parcels
within the proposed development;
                     (b) Provide plans and specifications for all proposed
extensions and additional lines and facilities as required by ARM 17.38.305 and
circular DEQ-3;
                  (iii)   Evidence of sufficient water quality in accordance
with rules adopted by the DEQ pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-
104;
                  (iv)   Where a new system is proposed:
                     (a) Provide evidence of adequate water availability,
unless cisterns are proposed:
                        Obtained from well logs or testing of on site or nearby
wells;
                        Obtained from information contained in published
hydrogeological reports; or
                        As otherwise specified by rules adopted by the DEQ
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-4-104;
                     (b) Indicate who will install the system, who will bear
the costs, when it will be completed, and who will own it;
                     (c) Provide all information required in ARM 17.36.330-336
and circular DEQ-3;
                     (d) Evidence of sufficient water quality in accordance
with the rule adopted by the DEQ pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-
4-104;
         c.   Wastewater treatment system:
            (1)   For a public wastewater treatment system:
               (A)   If an existing system is to be used:
                  (i)   Identify the system and the person, firm, or agency
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
                  (ii)   Indicate the system's capacity to handle additional
load and its distance from the development;
                  (iii)   Provide evidence that permission to connect to the
system has been granted;
                  (iv)   Provide the following attachments:
                     (a) A map or plat showing the location, sizes, and depth
of any existing sewer lines and facilities which will directly serve parcels
within the proposed development;
                     (b) Plans and specifications for all proposed extensions
and additional lines and facilities as required by ARM 17.36.328 and circular
DEQ-2 or circular DEQ-4;
            (2)   For a multiple user wastewater treatment system:
               (A)   If an existing system is to be used:
                  (i)   Identify the system and the person, firm, or agency
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
                  (ii)   Indicate the system's capacity to handle additional
load and its distance from the development;
                  (iii)   Provide evidence that permission to connect to the
system has been granted;
                  (iv)   Provide the following attachments:
                     (a) A map or plat showing the location, sizes, and depth
of any existing sewer lines and facilities which will directly serve parcels
within the proposed development; and
                     (b) Plans and specifications for all proposed extensions
and additional lines and facilities as required by ARM 17.36.320-345 and
circular DEQ-4 or circular DEQ-5;
               (B)   If a new system is proposed:
                  (i)   Indicate who will install the system, who will bear the
costs, when it will be completed, and who will own it;
                  (ii)   Provide all information required in ARM 17.36.320-326
and circular DEQ-4 or circular DEQ-5;
                  (iii)   Evidence of suitability as provided in this section;
                  (iv)   Preliminary analysis of potential impact to ground
water as provided in this section;
         d.   Stormwater:
            (1)   Describe measures for the collection and disposal of storm
runoff from streets and roads within the subdivision.
            (2)   Indicate the type of road surface proposed.
            (3)   Describe facilities for stream or drainage crossing (e.g.,
culverts, bridges).
            (4)   Describe how surface runoff will be drained or channeled from
parcels.
            (5)   Indicate whether storm runoff will enter state waters and
describe any proposed treatment measures. (A stormwater discharge permit may be
required.)
            (6)   Describe any existing or proposed stream bank or shoreline
alteration, and any proposed construction or modification of lake beds or
stream channels. Provide information on location, extent, type, and purpose of
alteration.
            (7)   Provide the grading and stormwater or drainage plan;
         e.   Solid waste:
            (1)   Describe the proposed method of solid waste collection and
disposal.
            (2)   If use of an existing collection system or disposal facility
is proposed, indicate the name and location of the facility;
      48.   A form of subdivision improvements agreement, if proposed;
      49.   Letter requesting a revocation of agricultural covenants;
      50.   Letter indicating locations of cultural or historic resources;
      51.   Variance request or approval;
      52.   Rezoning application or approval;
      53.   When required, a flood hazard evaluation which contains the
following detailed information (to be submitted to the water resources
division, department of natural resources):
         a.   Certification by a registered professional engineer.
         b.   An overall scaled plan view with identified scale for vertical
and horizontal distance showing the following:
            (1)   Watercourse;
            (2)   Floodplain boundaries;
            (3)   Location of property;
            (4)   Contours;
            (5)   Cross sections;
            (6)   Bridges or other contractions in the floodplains;
            (7)   USGS gauging stations (if any).
         c.   The location and elevation of a temporary bench mark(s)
established within the subdivision and referenced to mean sea level with
appropriate elevation adjustment.
         d.   Cross sectional information which contains the following
information:
            (1)   Elevations and stations that are determined at points
representing significant breaks in ground slope and at changes in the hydraulic
characteristics of the floodplain (i.e., points where ground cover, soil, or
rock conditions change). Elevations must be reported in NAVD 88 or NGVD 29
datum.
            (2)   Each cross section must cross the entire floodplain. The
cross section alignment should be perpendicular to the general flow of the
watercourse (approximately perpendicular to contour lines). Occasionally, wide
floodplains require a dogleg alignment to be perpendicular to the anticipated
flow lines. Shots should be taken at the water's edge and measurements taken
(if elevation shots cannot be taken) to determine the channel bottom shape.
Cross sections must be accurately located on a USGS seven and one-half (71/2)
minute quad sheet.
            (3)   The number of cross sections needed, and the distance between
cross sections, will vary depending on the site, the slope of the watercourse,
the slope of the channel, and the hydraulic characteristics of the reach. A
minimum of four (4) cross sections are required over the entire reach with at
least two (2) cross sections at the property where the elevations are desired.
Additional cross sections must be taken at bridges, control structures, or
natural constrictions in topography. (Photogrammetric methods may be used in
lieu of cross sections whenever appropriate and when reviewed and approved by
the county.)
         e.   A description and sketch of all bridges within the reach, showing
unobstructed waterway openings and elevations.
         f.   Elevation of the water surface is to be determined by survey as
part of each valley cross section.
         g.   Supporting documentation, such as engineering reports of computer
computations, calculations, and assumptions that may include:
            (1)   Hydrology (research of published hydrology or calculations
showing how hydrology was derived);
            (2)   Input files (hard copy and on diskette);
            (3)   Output files (diskette only);
      54.   Letter identifying and proposing mitigation for potential hazards
or other adverse impacts as identified in the preapplication meeting and not
covered by any of the above required materials; and
      55.   Such additional relevant and reasonable information as identified
by the subdivision administrator during the preapplication meeting that is
pertinent to the required elements of this section. (Ord. 08-001, 3-11-2008)
CHAPTER 12
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION/REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Environmental Assessment And/Or Guidelines To Prepare Findings Of Fact
11-12-1-1: Description Of Environmental Features
11-12-1-2: Summary Of Probable Impacts
11-12-1-3: Community Impact Report
11-12-2: Subdivision Improvements Guarantee Procedures:
11-12-3: Required Covenants
11-12-4: Fee Schedule; Subdivision Review Fees
11-12-5: Subdivision Appeal Process
11-12-5-1: Appeals Of Administrative Decisions
11-12-5-2: Appeals Of Town Council Decisions
11-12-1: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND/OR GUIDELINES TO PREPARE FINDINGS OF
FACT:
General Instructions
Using available information, the subdivider shall provide responses to the
following questions and provide materials as required. Sources of information
must be identified for each section of the assessment. Preparation of the
environmental assessment shall adhere to the following outline and shall be
identified with the appropriate section, heading, number, and letter. On-site
inspections may be made regarding any question. Falsification or omission of
any part of the questionnaire shall constitute grounds for rejection of the
application for plat approval. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-1-1: DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES:
Describe the following review criteria, provide responses to the following
questions, and provide reference materials as required.
   A.   Agriculture:
      1.   Locate on a map the following:
         a.   Any lands currently or seasonally used for livestock production
that are part of the subdivision or within two thousand six hundred feet
(2,600') of the site.
         b.   Any lands currently used for hay or crops that are part of the
subdivision or within two thousand six hundred feet (2,600') of the site.
         c.   Any information regarding agriculture traffic or access and how
the proposed subdivision may impact this.
         d.   Any soil types designated as prime farmland, prime farmland if
irrigated, farmland of statewide importance, farmland of local importance by
the natural resources conservation service.
   B.   Agricultural Water User Facilities:
      1.   Locate on a map the following:
         a.   Any irrigation ditch, lateral, or any other element of an
agricultural water user facility.
         b.   Provide written agreements from each ditch company's authorized
representative approving the work or methods of impact mitigation from the
development of the subdivision. The subdivider must provide this agreement to
the town and the town must approve the agreement prior to any work being
completed on the site. This includes staging of materials and equipment, and
any dirt work on the site.
   C.   Local Services:
      1.   Provide the following:
         a.   A map showing distance from all proposed lots to the Town of
Manhattan police station, Manhattan rural fire department, and emergency room.
         b.   Calculation of the total miles of roadway to be maintained by the
town if the subdivision is approved.
         c.   Acres of parkland to be included and the expected annual cost of
maintenance.
   D.   Natural Environment:
      1.   Provide the following on a map:
         a.   Existing trees, native vegetation, and topography lines at three-
foot (3') intervals.
         b.   Soils map from the NRCS.
      2.   Provide the following information:
         a.   Mitigation strategies to decrease erosion.
         b.   Mitigation strategies to ensure that the development will not
lead to the spread of noxious weeds.
         c.   The direction and amount of runoff expected during the
construction period.
      3.   On a plat overlay or sketch map:
         a.   Indicate the distribution of the major vegetation types, such as
marsh, grassland, shrub, deciduous forest, mixed forest.
         b.   Identify the location of critical plant communities such as:
            (1)   Stream bank or shoreline vegetation.
            (2)   Vegetation on soils highly susceptible to wind or water
erosion.
            (3)   Type and extent of noxious weeds.
      4.   Describe measures to:
         a.   Preserve trees and other natural vegetation (e.g. locating roads
and lot boundaries, planning construction to avoid damaging tree cover).
         b.   Protect critical plant communities (e.g. keeping structural
development away from these areas, setting areas aside for open space).
         c.   Prevent and control grass, brush, or forest fires (e.g. green
strips, water supply, access).
   E.   Measures To Control Noxious Weeds:
      1.   Approved Weed Plan from the Gallatin County Weed District.
   F.   Groundwater:
      1.   Using available data, provide the following information:
         a.   The average minimum depth to groundwater table and identify dates
when depths were determined.
         b.   Any impacts from the placement of wells or infrastructure for the
project on any groundwater
         c.   The availability of water in a physical and legal capacity to be
used for the development.
         d.   The source of the adequate and legal water supply for the
development if from groundwater.
   G.   Surface Water:
      1.   Locate on a map:
         a.   Any ditches and irrigation systems (also indicate the names,
sizes, and present uses of each).
         b.   Time when water is present (seasonally or all year).
         c.   Any areas subject to flood hazard, or in special flood hazard
area as defined by the federal emergency management agency.
         d.   Any natural waterbody or waterway including but not limited to
creeks, rivers, streams, ponds, lakes, and wetlands.
         e.   The source of the adequate and legal water supply for the
development if from surface water.
   H.   Topography, Geology And Soils:
      1.   Provide a map of the topography of the area to be subdivided and an
evaluation of suitability for the proposed land uses. Address conditions such
as:
         a.   In considering any unusual conditions, specifically address any
problems which may be encountered in excavating for:
            (1)   Basements.
            (2)   Water supply trenches.
            (3)   Underground electrical and telephone lines.
      2.   Locate on an overlay or sketch map:
         a.   Any known hazards affecting the development which could result in
property damage or personal injury due to:
            (1)   Seismic activity.
            (2)   High water table.
         b.   Describe measures proposed to prevent or reduce these dangers.
      3.   Describe the location and amount of any cut or fill more than three
(3) feet in depth. Indicate these cuts or fills on a plat overlay or sketch
map. Where cuts or fills are necessary, describe plans to prevent erosion and
to promote vegetation such as replacement of topsoil and grading.
   I.   Wildlife:
      1.   Provide the following:
         a.   Any observed wildlife on the property.
         b.   Mitigation strategies between existing wildlife and the
developments impact on the wildlife.
   J.   Wildlife Habitat:
      1.   Provide the following:
         a.   Adjacency to any conservation easements.
         b.   Adjacency of the project to any wildlife corridor as defined in
the Gallatin Valley Sensitive Lands Document.
         c.   Pollinator vegetation that are present on the parcel.
   K.   Public Health And Safety:
      1.   Describe potential traffic impacts that may increase conflicts with
other vehicular traffic, pedestrian traffics, and bicycles.
      2.   Potential concerns to public health and safety during the
construction period. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-1-2: SUMMARY OF PROBABLE IMPACTS:
Provide a summary of the probable impacts of the proposed subdivision on the
following criteria.
   A.   Effects On Agriculture And Agricultural Water User Facilities:
      1.   Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on agriculture.
Provide responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required.
         a.   Would the subdivision remove agricultural land with significant
existing or potential production capacity?
         b.   Would the subdivision remove from production agricultural lands
which are critical to the area's agricultural operation (e.g. removing key
irrigated lands, winter pastures or hay lands which may limit the overall
livestock production)?
         c.   Would the subdivision create a significant conflict with nearby
agricultural operations (e.g. residential development creating problems for
moving livestock, operating farm machinery, maintaining and operating
irrigation systems, controlling weeds or applying pesticides; or would
agricultural operations suffer from vandalism, uncontrolled pets, or damaged
fences)?
      2.   Including proof and data showing that there will be minimal to no
impacts to any agricultural water sources.
         d.   Would the subdivision generate nuisance complaints or problems
(e.g. dust, odor or noise from agricultural operations, safety hazards to
residents or water problems from irrigation, straying farm animals, or
pesticide application)?
         e.   How would the subdivision affect the value of nearby agricultural
lands:
            (1)   Would the market, mortgage, and taxable value of nearby
agricultural land increase?
            (2)   Would the increased market value and the conditions in 2, 3,
and 4 above encourage further land division or otherwise remove land from
production?
            (3)   Would the cost of providing additional educational and other
public facilities result in higher mill levies on agricultural properties?
   B.   Effects On Local Services:
      1.   Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on local services.
Provide responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required:
         a.   Indicate the proposed use and number of lots or spaces in each.
         b.   Residential, single family.
         c.   Residential, multiple family.
         d.   Types of multiple family structures and number of each (e.g.
duplex, 4-plex).
         e.   Planned unit development (No. of units).
         f.   Condominium (No. of units).
         g.   Mobile home park.
         h.   Recreational vehicle park.
         i.   Commercial or industrial.
         j.   Other (Please describe).
      2.   What additional or expanded public services and facilities would be
demanded of the town to serve the subdivision?
      3.   What additional costs would result for services such as streets,
bridges, law enforcement, parks and recreation, fire protection, water, sewer,
and solid waste systems, or schools (including additional personnel, equipment,
construction, and maintenance costs).
      4.   Who would bear these costs (e.g. all taxpayers within the
jurisdiction, people within special taxing districts, or users of a service)?
      5.   Can the service providers meet the additional costs given legal or
other constraints (e.g. statutory ceilings on mill levies or bonded
indebtedness)?
      6.   What are the present tax revenues received from the unsubdivided
land?
         a.   By the county.
         b.   By the town if applicable.
         c.   By the school(s).
      7.   What would be the approximate revenues received by each above taxing
authority if the lots are reclassified, and when the lots are all improved and
built upon? What other taxes would be paid by the subdivision and into what
funds (e.g. personal property taxes on mobile homes are paid into the county
general fund)?
      8.   Would new taxes generated from the subdivision cover additional
public costs?
      9.   How many special improvement districts would be created which would
obligate the town fiscally or administratively?
      10.   Are any bonding plans proposed which would affect the town's bonded
indebtedness?
   C.   Effects On The Natural Environment, Historic Buildings, Features, And
Sites:
      1.   Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on the natural
environment, historic buildings, features, and sites. Provide responses to the
following questions and provide reference materials as required.
         a.   Describe and locate on a plat overlay or sketch map known or
possible historic, archaeological, paleontological, or cultural sites, and
structures or objects which may be affected by the proposed subdivision.
         b.   Describe plans to protect these sites.
         c.   How would the subdivision affect the Townscape of Manhattan (e.g.
visual features within the subdivision or on adjacent land)? Describe efforts
to visually blend the proposed development with the existing environment (e.g.
architecture, use of appropriate building materials, colors, street design,
underground utilities, and revegetation of earthworks).
   D.   Effects On Wildlife And Wildlife Habitat:
      1.   Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on wildlife and
wildlife habitat. Provide responses to the following questions and provide
reference materials as required.
         a.   List species of wildlife which use the area affected by the
proposed subdivision. Describe how the subdivision or any access road affect
critical wildlife areas such as migration routes, nesting areas, wetlands, or
important habitat for rare or endangered species?
         b.   How would pets or human activity affect wildlife?
   E.   Effects On The Public Health And Safety:
      1.   Summarize the effects of the proposed subdivision on public health
and safety. Describe any health or safety hazards on or near the subdivision,
such as: natural hazards, drainage problems, heavy traffic, dilapidated
structures, high pressure gas lines, high voltage power lines or irrigation
ditches. These conditions, proposed or existing, should be accurately described
with their origin and location identified. Provide responses to the following
questions and provide reference materials as required.
         a.   Would the subdivision be subject to hazardous conditions due to
highways, railroads, dilapidated structures, high pressure gas lines,
irrigation ditches, or adjacent industrial uses?
         b.   Describe land uses adjacent to the subdivision, and how the
subdivision will affect the adjacent land uses. What existing uses such as feed
lots, processing plants or industrial firms could be subject to law suits or
complaints from residents of the subdivision?
         c.   What public health or safety hazards, such as dangerous traffic
or fire conditions or contamination of water supplies, would be created by the
subdivision?
   F.   Compliance with survey requirements, local subdivision regulations and
review procedures.
   G.   Provision of easements for the location and installation of any planned
utilities.
      1.   Summarize provision of easements for the location and installation
of any planned utilities. Provide responses to the following questions and
provide reference materials as required.
      2.   Indicate what utilities will be supplied.
      3.   Indicate the utility companies providing electrical power, natural
gas, or telephone service. To what extent will these utilities be placed
underground? What arrangements have been made to secure these utilities?
      4.   Describe proposed street lighting and who will provide it.
      5.   Has the preliminary plat been submitted to affected utilities for
review?
      6.   Does the subdivision provide easements for the location and
installation of utilities as specified in these regulations?
      7.   Are all easements, both proposed and existing, clearly noted on the
face of the plat? (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-1-3: COMMUNITY IMPACT REPORT:
Provide a community impact report containing a statement of estimated number of
people coming into the area because of the subdivision, anticipated needs of
the proposed subdivision for public facilities and services, the increased
capital and operating cost to each affected unit of local government. Provide
responses to the following questions and provide reference materials as
required.
   A.   Education:
      1.   Estimate the number of school children that will be added by the
proposed subdivision. Provide a statement from the administrator of the
affected school system indicating whether the increased enrollment can be
accommodated by the present personnel and facilities. If not, estimate the
increased expenditures that would be necessary to do so.
   B.   Streets And Maintenance:
      1.   Estimate how much daily traffic the subdivision, when fully
occupied, will generate on existing streets and arterials.
         a.   Describe the capability of existing and proposed streets to
safely accommodate this increased traffic.
         b.   Describe increased maintenance problems and increased cost due to
this increase in volume.
      2.   Describe proposed new public or private access streets including:
         a.   Measures for disposing of storm runoff from streets.
         b.   Type of road surface.
         c.   Facilities for streams or drainage crossing (e.g. culverts,
bridges).
         d.   Seeding of disturbed areas.
      3.   Describe the closing or modification of any existing streets.
      4.   Explain why street access was not provided within the subdivision,
if access to any individual lot is directly from arterial streets or roads.
      5.   Estimate the cost and completion date of the system, and indicate
who will pay the cost of installation, maintenance, and snow removal.
   C.   Water, Sewage, And Solid Waste Facilities:
      1.   Describe estimated impacts on the existing system, and show evidence
that permission has been granted to hook up to the existing system.
      2.   All water supply and sewage treatment plans and specifications will
be reviewed and approved by the Montana department of environmental quality
(MDEQ) and should be submitted using the appropriate MDEQ subdivision form or
the MDEQ/local government joint application form.
      3.   Describe the proposed method of collecting and disposing of solid
waste from the development.
      4.   If use of an existing collection system or disposal facility is
proposed indicate the name and location of the facility.
   D.   Fire And Police Protection:
      1.   Can present personnel and facilities meet the fire and police
protection service needs of the proposed subdivision? If not, what additional
expense would be necessary to make these services adequate, and who would pay
the costs?
   E.   Payment For Extension Of Capital Facilities:
      1.   Indicate how the subdivider will pay for the cost of extending
capital facilities resulting from expected impacts directly attributable to the
subdivision. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-2: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE PROCEDURES:
In lieu of the completion of the construction of any public improvements prior
to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall provide or cause to be
provided a bond or other reasonable security, in an amount and with surety and
conditions satisfactory to the town council, providing for and securing the
construction and installation of the improvements, in accordance with the
specifications set out in section 11-4-2-8 of this title. The following
procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Improvements; Standards; Time Limits: The town council shall specify
the improvements that may be completed after the final plat is approved. The
town council shall specify that the improvements must be constructed to
standards included in these regulations and other standards the town council
may adopt. Those improvements shall include streets, roads, bridges, culverts,
curbs, gutters, drainage ditches, water systems, sewage systems, sidewalks,
walkways, streetlights, street signs, road right of way clearings, solid waste
facilities, park and recreation facilities, mobile home pads and other
improvements as required by the town council. The town council shall specify a
deadline for completion of the improvements. All improvements shall be
completed no later than eighteen (18) months from the date the final plat is
filed with the clerk and recorder. The town council may grant one extension of
up to one year, unless otherwise agreed to by the town.
   B.   Projected Costs: The subdivider shall provide three (3) bids for the
cost of installation of the public improvements. The town council may direct
the city engineer or designated representatives to review all improvements,
plans and specifications and projected costs of completing the improvements.
   C.   Improvements Agreement: The subdivider shall enter into an improvements
agreement which shall follow the model subdivision improvements agreement found
at the Manhattan town hall or the official Manhattan website.
   D.   Improvements Guarantee: The subdivider shall provide a guarantee that
the improvements will be completed. The guarantee shall have a value equal to
one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the highest of the three (3) bids provided
by the developer for the projected costs of completing improvements. The
guarantee shall specify procedures for the town to obtain the funds should the
subdivider fail to satisfactorily complete the improvements. The types of
guarantees acceptable to the town are described in subsection
11-12-2 -H of this section. The method of guarantee shall be subject to town
approval.
   E.   Inspection And Certification:
      1.   Upon completion of required improvements, the subdivider shall file
with the town a statement certifying that:
         a.   All required improvements are complete.
         b.   These improvements comply with the minimum standards specified by
the town council for their construction.
         c.   The subdivider knows of no defects in these improvements.
         d.   These improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or
liens.
         e.   All applicable fees and surcharges have been paid.
      2.   The subdivider shall also file with the town copies of final plans,
profiles, grades, and specifications for improvements.
      3.   The town will provide for inspection of all required improvements by
the city engineer or a designated representative before final plat approval
when installation is a condition of approval or before releasing the subdivider
from the subdivision improvements agreement. The subdivider shall bore the
entirety of the cost for the town's inspection of all required improvements.
Upon completion of the inspection, the inspecting engineer shall file with the
town a statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed in
the required manner or listing the defects in those improvements. Only after
the inspecting engineer certifies that the improvements are complete and free
from defect, and after receipt of the other statements detailed above, the town
shall completely release the subdivider from the subdivision improvements
agreement.
   F.   Reduction And Release of Guarantee: The town council shall reduce bond
requirements commensurate with the completion of improvements as specified in
the improvements agreement. The proportion of the collateral released may not
exceed the proportion which the improvements completed represent of all
originally required improvements. An inspection of the completed portion will
be required. Upon acceptance of the final portion of improvements, the town
council shall authorize the release of the remaining portion of the improvement
guarantee. Prior to the release of the guarantee, a copy of the plans, stamped
by the project surveyor or engineer in accordance with their licensing
provision, shall be filed in the clerk and recorder's office with reference to
the final subdivision plat.
   G.   Failure To Satisfactorily Complete Improvements: If the town council
determines that any improvements are not constructed in compliance with the
agreed specifications, it shall furnish the subdivider with a list of specific
deficiencies and may withhold collateral sufficient to ensure proper
completion. If the town council determines that the subdivider will not
construct any or all the improvements to required specifications, or within
time limits, it may withdraw collateral and use these funds to construct the
improvements to meet specifications. Unused portions of these funds shall be
returned to the subdivider or crediting institution.
   H.   Acceptable Forms Of Improvements Guarantees: The subdivider shall
provide a financial security guarantee from the following listed methods in the
amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the highest bid for the estimated
total cost of installing all required improvements.
      1.   Escrow Account: The subdivider shall deposit cash, or collateral
readily convertible to cash at face value, either with the town or in escrow
with an escrow agency. The use of collateral other than cash, and the selection
of the escrow agency where funds are to be deposited must be approved by the
town council. Where an escrow account is to be used, the subdivider shall give
the town his agreement with the escrow agency guaranteeing the following:
         a.   That the funds in the escrow account are to be held in trust
until released by the town council and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider as security for any other obligation during that period.
         b.   That, should the subdivider fail to complete the required
improvements, the escrow agency shall immediately make the funds in escrow
available to the town for completing these improvements.
      2.   Surety Performance Bond: The subdivider shall provide a surety
performance bond which shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state of Montana and acceptable as a surety to the town and
countersigned by a Montana agent. The bond shall be payable to the town. The
bond shall be in a form which can be reduced incrementally and shall be in
effect until the completed improvements are accepted by the town council.
      3.   Sequential Development: In lieu of requiring a bond or other means
of security for the construction or installation of the required public
improvements, the town council may approve an incremental payment or guarantee
plan. The improvements in a prior increment must be completed or the payment or
guarantee of payment for the costs of the improvements incurred in a prior
increment must be satisfied before development of future increments. The town
council may grant final plat approval to only one increment at a time. The plat
approval for each succeeding increment will be contingent on completion of all
improvements in each preceding increment. Improvements in each increment of the
subdivision must be completed or guaranteed using one of the other methods
detailed in this section before final plat approval will be granted.
      4.   Special Improvement District: The town may enter into an agreement
with the subdivider, and the owners of the property proposed for subdivision if
other than the subdivider, that the installation of required improvements will
be financed through a special improvement district created pursuant to MCA
title 7, Chapter 12. This agreement must provide that no lots within the
subdivision will be sold, rented, or leased, and no contract for the sale of
lots executed, before the improvement district has been created. Subdivision
improvements must be completed or guaranteed before final plat approval will be
granted. An agreement to finance improvements through creating a special
improvement district constitutes a waiver by the subdivider, or the other
owners of the property, of the right to protest, or petition against, the
creation of the district under either MCA 7-12-2109 or 7-12-4110, Montana Code
Annotated. This waiver must be filed with the Gallatin County clerk and
recorder and will be deemed to run with the land.
      5.   Letter Of Credit: Subject to town council approval, the subdivider
shall provide the town a letter of credit from a bank or other reputable
financial institution certifying the following:
         a.   That the creditor guarantees funds in an amount equal to the
cost, as approved by the town council, of completing all required improvements.
         b.   That if the subdivider fails to complete the specified
improvements within the required period, the creditor will immediately pay to
the town upon presentation of sight draft without further action, an amount of
cash necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit
of credit stated in the letter.
   c.   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn until released by the
town council. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-3: REQUIRED COVENANTS:
The following covenants are required for all subdivisions in Manhattan and the
urban growth area:
   A.   Conditions And Covenants Related To Water Conveyance Facilities:
      1.   Conditions Related To Water Conveyance Facilities:
         a.   Water conveyance facilities and the required water conveyance
facility non-interference setback shall be shown on the final plat and clearly
labeled. Plats shall depict irrigation ditches, canals, or pipelines by their
centerline.
         b.   The following note shall appear on the final Subdivision plat:
"Any water conveyance facility non-interference setback or easement shown on
the subdivision plat does not eliminate any secondary easement described by
section 70-17-112, MCA."
         c.   Unless there is written consent from the appropriate water users
and/or water conveyance facility's authorized representatives, stormwater,
snowmelt runoff, water from dewatering practices, or other water originating
from within the boundaries of the subdivision shall not discharge into or
otherwise be directed into any irrigation ditch, canal, pipeline, or other
water conveyance facility.
         d.   The subdivider shall not undertake any activity that would result
in the interference or obstruction in the transmission of water in any water
conveyance facility. Before any maintenance, improvements, or modifications are
performed on any water conveyance facility, written permission must be obtained
from the water users and/or water conveyance facility's authorized
representatives. Upon completion of maintenance, improvements, or modifications
to any water conveyance facility, the subdivider shall provide written notice
to the water users and/or water cnveyance facility's authorized representatives
and allow them an opportunity to inspect such work.
   B.   Covenants Related To Water Conveyance Facilities:
      1.   No water may be removed from any irrigation ditch, canal, or other
water conveyance facility without a water right, permit, or written water lease
agreement with the appropriate water users and/or water conveyance facility's
authorized representatives.
      2.   Unless there is written consent from the appropriate water users
and/or water conveyance facility's authorized representatives, stormwater,
snowmelt runoff, water from dewatering practices, or other water originating
from within the boundaries of the subdivision shall not discharge into or
otherwise be directed into any irrigation ditch, canal, pipeline, or other
water conveyance facility.
      3.   The owners' association shall remove any trash or debris that
originated from within the subdivision and has accumulated in the water
conveyance facilities passing through their subdivision by no later than May
1st of each year. If the owners' association fails to remove the trash or
debris as described above, the water users and/or water conveyance facility's
authorized representatives may cause the trash or debris to be removed and bill
the owners' association for such efforts.
      4.   Until such time that the owners' association assumes responsibility
for the requirements described herein, such requirements shall be the
responsibility of the developer.
      5.   Lot owners are hereby notified of the water users, water conveyance
facility's authorized representatives, and/or their designee's right to access
the property to maintain and repair the water conveyance facility (this
includes, but is not limited to, placement of excavated material, removal of
vegetation and debris along the water conveyance facility); to install, repair,
and or adjust headgates and other diversion structures; and to carry out other
normal means of repair and maintenance related to the ditch/canal.
      6.   To assure non-interference with water conveyance facilities, no
livestock grazing shall take place, nor shall any new structures (other than
structures for the maintenance and operation of the water conveyance facility),
fences, landscaping (other than grass), or roads, may be installed or erected
within the water conveyance facility non-interference setback, except where
agreed to in writing by the water users and/or water conveyance facilities
authorized representatives. (NOTE: Where the water users and/or water
conveyance facility's authorized representatives agree to something else as
part of the subdivision review process, this covenant would need to be amended
to reflect those changes.)
      7.   Neither the owners' association nor any lot owners shall undertake
any activity that would result in the interference or obstruction in the
transmission of water in the water conveyance facility. Before any maintenance,
improvements, or modifications are performed on any water conveyance facility,
written permission must be obtained from the water users and/or water
conveyance facility's authorized representatives prior to commencing such work.
Upon completion of maintenance, improvements, or modifications to any water
conveyance facility, the person responsible for such work shall provide written
notice to the water users and/or water conveyance facility's authorized
representatives and allow them an opportunity to inspect such work.
      8.   Lot purchasers are hereby notified that Montana law provides
specific protections in regards to liability and nuisance claims for
agricultural operations and irrigators. Those specific protections include, but
are not limited to MCA 85-7-2211, 85-7- 2212; 27-30-101. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-
2024)
11-12-4: FEE SCHEDULE: SUBDIVISION REVIEW FEES:
The purpose of these fees is to cover the costs of processing applications and
reviewing plats, plat supplements, advertising, holding public hearings, and
other expenses related to the subdivision review process. The subdivider shall
pay a nonrefundable review fee at the time of application prior to final
approval. All fees as determined from time to time by resolution of the town
council shall be payable to the own. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-5: SUBDIVISION APPEAL PROCESS:
11-12-5-1: APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
subdivision administrator, may present to the board of adjustments a petition,
duly verified, setting forth that such decision is unfounded, in whole or in
part, specifying the grounds of the complaint. Such petition shall be presented
to the board of adjustments within thirty (30) days after the filing of the
decision of the subdivision administrator. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-12-5-2: APPEALS OF TOWN COUNCIL DECISIONS:
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
town council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
council.
For the purposes of this section, "aggrieved" means a person who can
demonstrate a specific personal and legal interest, as distinguished from a
general interest, who has been or is likely to be specially and injuriously
affected by the decision. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 13
DEVELOPMENT FEES
SECTION:
11-13-1: Definitions
11-13-2: Calculation Of Impact Fees; Documentation Required; Ordinance Or
Resolution; Requirements For Impact Fees
11-13-3: Collection And Expenditure Of Impact Fees; Refunds Or Credits;
Mechanism For Appeal Required; Cause Of Action
11-13-4: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
11-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this part, the following definitions apply:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS Improvements, land, and equipment with a useful life of
ten (10) years or more that increase or improve the service capacity of a
public facility. The term does not include consumable supplies.
CONNECTION CHARGE The actual cost of connecting a property to a public utility
system and is limited to the labor, materials, and overhead involved in making
connections and installing meters.
DEVELOPMENT: Construction, renovation, or installation of a building or
structure, a change in use of a building or structure, or a change in the use
of land when the construction, installation, or other action creates additional
demand for public facilities.
IMPACT FEE: Any charge imposed upon development by the town council as part of
the development approval process to fund the additional service capacity
required by the development from which it is collected. An impact fee may
include a fee for the administration of the impact fee not to exceed five
percent (5%) of the total impact fee collected. The term does not include:
   A.   A charge or fee to pay for administration, plan review, or inspection
costs associated with a permit required for development;
   B.   A connection charge;
   C.   Any other fee authorized by law, including but not limited to user
fees, special improvement district assessments, fees authorized under title 7
for county, municipal, and consolidated government sewer and water districts
and systems, and costs of ongoing maintenance; or
   D.   Onsite or offsite improvements necessary for new development to meet
the safety, level of service, and other minimum development standards that have
been adopted by the town council.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of the cost of capital system improvements
that reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the project. A
proportionate share must consider the limitations provided in MCA 7-6-1602.
PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   A water supply production, treatment, storage, or distribution
facility;
   B.   A wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal facility;
   C.   A transportation facility, including roads, streets, bridges, rights-
of-way, traffic signals, and landscaping;
   D.   A storm water collection, retention, detention, treatment, or disposal
facility or a flood control facility;
   E.   Police, emergency medical rescue, or fire protection facility; and
   F.   Other facilities for which documentation is prepared as provided in
section 7-6-1602 that have been approved as part of an impact fee ordinance or
resolution by:
      1.   A two-thirds (2/3) majority of the governing body of an incorporated
city, town, or consolidated local government; or
      2.   A unanimous vote of the board of county commissioners of a county
government. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-13-2: CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEES; DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED; ORDINANCE OR
RESOLUTION; REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPACT FEES:
For each public facility for which an impact fee is imposed, the town council
shall prepare and approve a service area report.
   A.   The service area report is a written analysis that must:
      1.   Describe existing conditions of the facility;
      2.   Establish level-of-service standards;
      3.   Forecast future additional needs for service for a defined period;
      4.   Identify capital improvements necessary to meet future needs for
service;
      5.   Identify those capital improvements needed for continued operation
and maintenance of the facility;
      6.   Determine as to whether one service area or more than one (1)
service area is necessary to establish a correlation between impact fees and
benefits;
      7.   Determine as to whether one service area or more than one service
area for transportation facilities is needed to establish a correlation between
impact fees and benefits;
      8.   Establish the methodology and period over which the town council
will assign the proportionate share of capital costs for expansion of the
facility to provide service to new development within each service area;
      9.   Establish the methodology that the town council will use to exclude
operations and maintenance costs and correction of existing deficiencies from
the impact fee;
      10.   Establish the amount of the impact fee that will be imposed for
each unit of increased service demand; and
      11.   Have a component of the budget of the town council that:
         a.   Schedules construction of public facility capital improvements to
serve projected growth;
         b.   Projects costs of the capital improvements;
         c.   Allocates collected impact fees for construction of the capital
improvements; and
         d.   Covers at least a five (5) year period and is reviewed and
updated at least every five (5) years.
   B.   The service area report is a written analysis that must contain
documentation of sources and methodology used for purposes of section
11-13-2 -A and must document how each impact fee meets the requirements of
section
11-13-2 -F.
   C.   The service area report that supports adoption and calculation of an
impact fee must be available to the public upon request.
   D.   The amount of each impact fee imposed must be based upon the actual
cost of public facility expansion or improvements or reasonable estimates of
the cost to be incurred by the town council because of new development. The
calculation of each impact fee must be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
   E.   The ordinance or resolution adopting the impact fee must include a time
schedule for periodically updating the documentation required under section
11-13-2 -A.
   F.   An impact fee must meet the following requirements:
      1.   The amount of the impact fee must be reasonably related to and
reasonably attributable to the development's share of the cost of
infrastructure improvements made necessary by the new development.
      2.   The impact fees imposed may not exceed a proportionate share of the
costs incurred or to be incurred by the town council in accommodating the
development. The following factors must be considered in determining a
proportionate share of public facilities capital improvements costs:
         a.   The need for public facilities capital improvements required to
serve new development; and
         b.   Consideration of payments for system improvements reasonably
anticipated to be made by or because of the development in the form of user
fees, debt service payments, taxes, and other available sources of funding the
system improvements.
      3.   Costs for correction of existing deficiencies in a public facility
may not be included in the impact fee.
      4.   New development may not be held to a higher level of service than
existing users unless there is a mechanism in place for the existing users to
make improvements to the existing system to match the higher level of service.
      5.   Impact fees may not include expenses for operations and maintenance
of the facility. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-13-3: COLLECTION AND EXPENDITURE OF IMPACT FEES; REFUNDS OR CREDITS;
MECHANISM FOR APPEAL REQUIRED; CAUSE OF ACTION:
   A.   The collection and expenditure of impact fees must comply with this
part. The collection and expenditure of impact fees must be reasonably related
to the benefits accruing to the development paying the impact fees. The
ordinance or resolution adopted by the town vouncil must include the following
requirements:
      1.   Impact fees collected for a public facility must be deposited in a
special proprietary fund created specifically for each public facility as
identified in the service area report. Funds must be invested with all interest
accruing to the fund. Impact fees collected for a specific public facility may
not be transferred to a different fund and must be spent and accounted for
solely for the public facility as identified in the service area report.
      2.   The town council may impose impact fees on behalf of local
districts.
      3.   If the impact fees are not collected or spent in accordance with the
impact fee ordinance or resolution or in accordance with MCA 7-6-1602, any
impact fees that were collected must be refunded to the person who owned the
property at the time the impact fee in question was paid.
         a.   If a written request is submitted as provided for in subsection
11-13-3 -I, the town council shall refund any impact fee due under this section
within ninety (90) days.
         b.   The town council may not impose conditions when issuing a refund
pursuant to this part.
      4.   Impact fees may only be used to acquire, construct, or improve the
specific public facility project for which they were collected and may only be
expended in compliance with the service area report.
   B.   All impact fees imposed pursuant to the authority granted in this part
must be paid no earlier than the date of issuance of a building permit if a
building permit is required for the development or no earlier than the time of
wastewater or water service connection or well or septic permitting.
   C.   The town council may recoup costs of excess capacity in existing
capital facilities, when the excess capacity has been provided in anticipation
of the needs of new development, by requiring impact fees for that portion of
the facilities constructed for future users. The need to recoup costs for
excess capacity must have been documented pursuant to MCA 7-6-1602 in a manner
that demonstrates the need for the excess capacity. This part does not prevent
the town council from continuing to assess an impact fee that recoups costs for
excess capacity in an existing facility. The impact fees imposed to recoup the
costs to provide the excess capacity must be based on the town council's actual
cost of acquiring, constructing, or upgrading the facility and must be no more
than a proportionate share of the costs to provide the excess capacity.
   D.   The town council may accept the dedication of land or the construction
of public facilities in lieu of payment of impact fees if:
      1.   The need for the dedication or construction is clearly documented
pursuant to MCA 7- 6-1602;
      2.   The land proposed for dedication for the public facilities to be
constructed is determined to be appropriate for the proposed use by the town
council;
      3.   Formulas or procedures for determining the worth of proposed
dedications or constructions are established as part of the impact fee
ordinance or resolution; and
      4.   A means to establish credits against future impact fee revenue has
been created as part of the adopting ordinance or resolution if the dedication
of land or construction of public facilities is of worth more than the impact
fee due from an individual development.
   E.   Impact fees may not be imposed for remodeling, rehabilitation, or other
improvements to an existing structure or for rebuilding a damaged structure
unless there is an increase in units that increase service demand as described
in MCA 7-6-1602(2)(j). If impact fees are imposed for remodeling,
rehabilitation, or other improvements to an existing structure or use, only the
net increase between the old and new demand may be imposed.
   F.   This part does not prevent the town council from granting refunds or
credits:
      1.   That it considers appropriate and that are consistent with the
provisions of MCA 7-6- 1602 and this chapter; or
      2.   In accordance with a voluntary agreement, consistent with the
provisions of MCA 7-6- 1602 and this chapter, between the town council and the
individual or entity being assessed the impact fees.
   G.   An impact fee represents a fee for service payable by all users
creating additional demand on the facility.
   H.   An impact fee ordinance or resolution must include a mechanism whereby
a person charged an impact fee may appeal the charge if the person believes an
error has been made.
   I.   Any person or entity who is owed refunded impact fees as provided in
this part may request in writing from the town council that prompt payment be
concluded. A person or entity who submitted a written request pursuant to this
subsection may bring a cause of action against the town council in a court of
competent jurisdiction for failure to comply with this part. If a claimant
prevails in an action brought against the town council pursuant to this
subsection, the court shall award the claimant payment of all amounts due,
court costs, expert witness fees, and attorney fees incurred by the claimant.
If the claimant is unsuccessful, the court shall award the town council court
costs, expert witness fees, and attorney fees. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-13-4: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
When the town council intends to propose an impact fee ordinance or resolution
shall establish an impact fee advisory committee.
An impact fee advisory committee must include at least one representative of
the development community. The committee shall review and monitor the process
of calculating, assessing, and spending impact fees.
The impact fee advisory committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the
town council. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
CHAPTER 14
DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM SUBDIVISION REVIEW
SECTION:
11-14-1: Purpose; Review Required
11-14-2: Exemption For Airport Land And State-Owned Lands; Exception
11-14-3: Exemption For Conveyances Executed Prior To July 1, 1974
11-14-4: Divisions Or Aggregations Of Land Exempted From Review But Subject To
Survey Requirements And Zoning Regulations; Exceptions; Fees For Examination Of
Division
11-14-5: Exemption From Surveying And Platting Requirements For Lands Acquired
For State Highways
11-14-6: Agricultural Covenant; Change In Use
11-14-7: Standards For Condominiums
11-14-8: Standards For Townhouses
11-14-9: Procedures And Review Of Subdivision Exemptions
11-14-9-1: Submittal
11-14-9-2: Review
11-14-9-3: Appeals
11-14-1:   PURPOSE; REVIEW REQUIRED:
The MSPA provides that certain divisions of land, which would otherwise
constitute subdivisions, are exempt from local subdivision review and approval,
unless the use of the exemption is an attempt to evade the MSPA.
   A.   Unless the method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
this chapter, the requirements of this chapter may not apply to any division of
land that:
      1.   Is created by order of any court of record in this state or by
operation of law or that, in the absence of agreement between the parties to
the sale, could be created by an order of any court in this state pursuant to
the law of eminent domain, MCA title 70, chapter 30;
      2.   Subject to this section, is created to provide security for
mortgages, liens, or trust indentures for the purpose of construction,
improvements to the land being divided, or refinancing purposes;
      3.   Creates an interest in oil, gas, minerals, or water that is severed
from the surface ownership of real property;
      4.   Creates cemetery lots;
      5.   Is created by the reservation of a life estate;
      6.   Is created by lease or rental for farming and agricultural purposes;
      7.   Is in a location over which the state does not have jurisdiction; or
      8.   Is created for rights-of-way or utility sites. A subsequent change
in the use of the land to a residential, commercial, or industrial use is
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   An exempt division of land as provided in subsection
11-14-1 -A-1 is not considered a subdivision under this chapter if not more
than four new lots or parcels are created from the original lot or parcel.
   C.   Before a court of record orders, a division of land, the court shall
notify the town council of the pending division and allow the town council to
present written comment on the division.
   D.   An exemption under subsection
11-14-1 -A-2 applies:
      1.   To a division of land of any size;
      2.   If the land that is divided is not conveyed to any entity other than
the financial or lending institution to which the mortgage, lien, or trust
indenture was given or to a purchaser upon foreclosure of the mortgage, lien,
or trust indenture. Except as provided in subsection
11-14-1 -E, a transfer of the divided land, by the owner of the property at the
time that the land was divided, to any party other than those identified in
this subsection subjects the division of land to the requirements of this
chapter.
      3.   To a parcel that is created to provide security as provided in
subsection
11-14-1 -A. The remainder of the tract of land is subject to the provisions of
this chapter, if applicable.
   E.   If a parcel of land was divided pursuant to subsection
11-14-1 -A-2 and one of the parcels created by the division was conveyed by the
landowner to another party without foreclosure before October 1, 2003, the
conveyance of the remaining parcel is not subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
   F.   The Town Council:
      1.   May examine a division of land to determine whether the requirements
of this chapter apply to the division;
      2.   Shall complete the examination and approve or deny the application
for a division of land under this section within twenty (20) working days of
the receipt of an application containing all materials and information required
by the town council to complete the examination under regulations adopted
pursuant to MCA 76-3-504(1)(p); and
      3.   May not impose conditions on the approval of a division of land
under this section except for conditions necessary to ensure compliance with
the survey requirements of MCA title 76, chapter 3, part 4. (Ord. 24-007, 12-
11-2024)
11-14-2:   EXEMPTION FOR AIRPORT LAND AND STATE-OWNED LANDS; EXCEPTION:
   A.   A division of land created by lease or rental of contiguous airport-
related land owned by a city, a county, the state, or a municipal or regional
airport authority is not subject to the requirements of this chapter if the
lease or rental is for onsite weather or air navigation facilities, the
manufacture, maintenance, and storage of aircraft, or air carrier-related
activities.
   B.   A division of state-owned land is not subject to the requirements of
this chapter unless the division creates a second or subsequent parcel from a
single tract for sale, rent, or lease for residential purposes after July 1,
1974. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-3:   EXEMPTION FOR CONVEYANCES EXECUTED PRIOR TO JULY 1, 1974:
This chapter shall not be applicable to deeds, contracts, leases, or other
conveyances executed prior to July 1, 1974. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-4:   DIVISIONS OR AGGREGATIONS OF LAND EXEMPTED FROM REVIEW BUT SUBJECT
TO SURVEY REQUIREMENTS AND ZONING REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS; FEES FOR EXAMINATION
OF DIVISION:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection
11-14-4 -B, unless the method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of
evading this chapter, the following divisions or aggregations of tracts of
record of any size, regardless of the resulting size of any lot created by the
division or aggregation, are not subdivisions under this chapter but are
subject to the surveying requirements of MCA 76-3-401 for divisions or
aggregations of land other than subdivisions and are subject to applicable
zoning regulations adopted under MCA title 76, chapter 2:
      1.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of
relocating common boundary lines between adjoining properties;
      2.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of a
single gift or sale in each county to each member of the landowner's immediate
family;
      3.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions by gift, sale, or
agreement to buy and sell in which the landowner enters a covenant for the
purposes of this chapter with the governing body that runs with the land and
provides that the divided land will be used exclusively for agricultural
purposes, subject to the provisions of MCA 76-3-211;
      4.   For five (5) or fewer lots within a platted subdivision, the
relocation of common boundaries;
      5.   Divisions made for the purpose of relocating a common boundary line
between a single lot within a platted subdivision and adjoining land outside a
platted subdivision. A restriction or requirement on the original platted lot
or original unplatted parcel continues to apply to those areas.
      6.   Aggregation of parcels or lots when a certificate of survey or
subdivision plat shows that the boundaries of the original parcels have been
eliminated and the boundaries of a larger aggregate parcel are established. A
restriction or requirement on the original platted lot or original unplatted
parcel continues to apply to those areas.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
11-14-4 -A:
      1.   Within a platted subdivision filed with the county clerk and
recorder, a division, redesign, or rearrangement of lots that results in an
increase in the number of lots or that redesigns or rearranges six (6) or more
lots must be reviewed and approved by the governing body before an amended plat
may be filed with the county clerk and recorder;
      2.   A division within a platted subdivision is exempt from additional
subdivision reviews and is subject to applicable zoning regulations adopted
under title 76, chapter 2, unless the method of disposition is adopted for the
purpose of evading this chapter, if the division:
         a.   Is within a subdivision that has been approved by a local
governing body;
         b.   Creates parcels of a size allowed within the subdivision; and
         c.   Is gifted or sold to a member of the landowner's immediate
family;
      3.   An amended plat must be filed with the county clerk and recorder
after a division provided in subsection
11-14-4 -B-2 occurs; and
      4.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a restriction or
requirement on the platted subdivision continues to apply to a subdivision;
      5.   A division of land exempted under subsection
11-14-4 -A-2 that is also located in a zoning district is allowed if each
family transfer parcel created by the division is at least five (5) acres,
unless the zoning district allows for smaller lot sizes; and
      6.   A division of land transferred to an immediate family member
pursuant to subsection
11-14-4 -A-2 may be transferred regardless of age and may be owned jointly with
that immediate family member's spouse.
   C.   A division of land may not be made under this section unless the county
treasurer has certified that all real property taxes and special assessments
assessed and levied on the land to be divided have been paid.
      1.   If a division of land includes centrally assessed property and the
property taxes applicable to the division of land are not specifically
identified in the tax assessment, the department of revenue shall prorate the
taxes applicable to the land being divided on a reasonable basis. The owner of
the centrally assessed property shall ensure that the prorated real property
taxes and special assessments are paid on the land being sold before the
division of land is made.
      2.   The county treasurer may accept the amount of the tax prorated
pursuant to this section as a partial payment of the total tax that is due.
   D.   The Governing Body:
      1.   May examine a division or aggregation of land to determine whether
the requirements of this chapter apply to the division or aggregation;
      2.   May establish reasonable fees, not to exceed four hundred dollar
($400), for the examination;
      3.   Shall complete the examination and approve or deny the application
for a division or aggregation of land under this section within twenty (20)
working days of the receipt of an application containing all materials and
information required by the governing body to conduct its review under
regulations adopted pursuant to MCA 76-3-504(1)(p); and
      4.   May not impose conditions on the approval of a division or
aggregation of land under this section except for conditions necessary to
ensure compliance with the survey requirements of MCA title 76, chapter 3, part
4.
   E.   An immediate family member or the spouse of an immediate family member
who receives a division of land pursuant to subsection may not transfer or
otherwise convey the division of land for a period of up to two (2) years after
the date of the division unless the governing body sets a period of less than
two (2) years. A governing body may authorize variances from these requirements
to address hardship situations.
   F.   If a governing body can prove by documented evidence in a court of
competent jurisdiction that a person has knowingly evaded subdivision
regulations using a division of land under this section, that person is subject
to a civil penalty of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each division of land,
payable to the governing body. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-5:   EXEMPTION FROM SURVEYING AND PLATTING REQUIREMENTS FOR LANDS
ACQUIRED FOR STATE HIGHWAYS:
Instruments of transfer of land which is acquired for state highways may refer
by parcel and project number to state highway plans which have been recorded in
compliance with MCA 60-2-209 and are exempted from the surveying and platting
requirements of this chapter. If such parcels are not shown on highway plans of
record, instruments of transfer of such parcels shall be accompanied by and
refer to appropriate certificates of survey and plats when presented for
recording. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-6:   AGRICULTURAL COVENANT; CHANGE IN USE:
   A.   A change in use for anything other than agricultural purposes subjects
a division of land that received an exemption under MCA 76-3-207(1)(c) to
subdivision review under parts chapter 4 and chapter 5 of this title. However,
the governing body, in its discretion, may revoke the covenant provided for in
MCA 76-3-207(1)(c) for the purposes of this chapter and the division may
proceed without subdivision review if:
      1.   The original lot lines are restored through aggregation of the
covenanted land prior to or in conjunction with the revoking of the covenant;
or
      2.   A government or public entity seeks to use the land for public
purposes as defined in the governing body's review criteria pursuant to MCA 76-
3-504(1)(p).
   B.   If a governing body proposes to revoke a covenant, the governing body
shall hold a public hearing. Within fifteen (15) days of the hearing, the
governing body shall issue written findings of fact and a decision based on the
record. If the governing body approves the revoking of the covenant, the
approval must be recorded with the clerk and recorder.
   C.   The revocation of a covenant pursuant to this section does not affect
sanitary restrictions imposed under MCA title 76, chapter 4. (Ord. 24-007, 12-
11-2024)
11-14-7:   STANDARDS FOR CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   A determination whether the condominium, or conversion proposal is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter must be made by the governing body
or the agent or agency designated by the governing body within twenty (20)
working days of the receipt of an application containing all materials and
information required by the governing body to complete the determination.
   B.   Condominium developments shall meet the minimum standards of the MDEQ,
adopted pursuant to sections MCA 76-4-101 through 76-4-128.
   C.   The design and improvement standards of these regulations shall be
complied with, except where noted below.
   D.   Unit Ownership Act: Condominium development shall comply with all
provisions of the unit ownership act, MCA 70-23-102 through 70-23-703, and all
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   E.   Other Requirements: The subdivider shall comply with all other
standards and requirements of these regulations, the Manhattan transportation
design and construction standards, and other local and state regulations.
Condominium applications shall show the proposed location of buildings, snow
storage, parking, and internal access.
   F.   If it is determined that the project is exempt from the provisions of
this title the application shall be reviewed administratively by the
subdivision administrator or their designee. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-8:   STANDARDS FOR TOWNHOUSES:
   A.   A determination whether the townhouses, or conversion proposal is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter must be made by the governing body
or the agent or agency designated by the governing body within twenty (20)
working days of the receipt of an application containing all materials and
information required by the governing body to complete the determination.
   B.   Townhouses shall conform to the standards found within title 10 of the
municipal code of Manhattan.
If it is determined that the project is exempt from the provisions of this
title the application shall be reviewed administratively by the subdivision
administrator or their designee. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-9: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION EXEMPTIONS:
11-14-9-1:   SUBMITTAL:
Any person seeking exemption from the requirements of the MSPA shall submit to
the subdivision administrator:
   A.   A subdivision exemption application
   B.   Appropriate fee as shown on the official fee schedule
   C.   A certificate of survey or, if a survey is not required, an instrument
of conveyance, and
   D.   Evidence of, and an affidavit affirming, entitlement to the claimed
exemption. For purposes of MCA 76-3-207, when a parcel of land for which an
exemption from subdivision review is claimed is being conveyed under a contract
for deed, the terms "property owner", "landowner", and "owner" mean the seller
of the parcel under the contract for deed. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-9-2:   REVIEW:
When a division of land for which an exemption is claimed is submitted to the
subdivision administrator, the subdivision administrator shall cause the
documents to be reviewed by the designated agents of the governing body (e.g.,
town attorney, engineer, treasurer, and clerk and recorder). The subdivision
administrator and governing body agents shall review the claimed exemption to
verify that it is the proper use of the claimed exemption and complies with the
requirements set forth in the MSPA, the Montana sanitation in subdivisions act,
and these regulations.
   A.   Landowners or their agents are encouraged to meet with the subdivision
administrator to discuss whether a proposed land division or use of an
exemption complies with the criteria.
   B.   The subdivision administrator shall make a written determination of
whether the use of the exemption is intended to evade the purposes of the MSPA,
explaining the reasons for the determination.
   C.   If the subdivision administrator finds that the proposed use of the
exemption complies with the statutes and the criteria set forth in this
section, the subdivision administrator shall notify the governing body and
advise the clerk and recorder to file the certificate of survey or record the
instrument of conveyance and accompanying documents.
   D.   If the subdivision administrator finds that the proposed use of the
exemption does not comply with the statutes and the criteria in this section,
the subdivision administrator shall advise the clerk and recorder not to file
or record the documents, and the materials will be returned to the landowner.
   E.   The subdivision administrator shall consider all the surrounding
circumstances when determining whether an exemption is claimed for the purpose
of evading the MSPA. These circumstances may include, but are not limited to,
the nature of the claimant's business, the prior history of the tract in
question, the proposed configuration of the tracts if the proposed exempt
transaction is completed, and any pattern of exempt transactions that will
result in the equivalent of a subdivision without local government review.
(Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
11-14-9-3:   APPEALS:
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
subdivision administrator, may present to the board of adjustments a petition,
duly verified, setting forth that such decision is unfounded, in whole or in
part, specifying the grounds of the complaint. Such petition shall be presented
to the board of adjustments within thirty (30) days after the filing of the
decision of the subdivision administrator.
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
town council, may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision of the office of the
council.
For the purposes of this section, "aggrieved" means a person who can
demonstrate a specific personal and legal interest, as distinguished from a
general interest, who has been or is likely to be specially and injuriously
affected by the decision. (Ord. 24-007, 12-11-2024)
TITLE 12
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
12-1-1: Adoption Of The Model Technical Codes And Administrative Rules
12-1-2: Building Permit Required
12-1-3: Appeals Board
12-1-1: ADOPTION OF THE MODEL TECHNICAL CODES AND ADMINISTRATIVE RULES:
   A.   The current editions of the model uniform technical codes, to include,
but not be limited to, building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical, and all
accompanying appendices, amendments and modifications adopted or required to be
adopted by the building codes bureau, Montana department of labor and industry
(or its successor) as set out in the administrative rules of Montana, as
amended from time to time by the building codes bureau, are adopted by
reference and incorporated in this title as if set forth in full, except for
any exception noted in this chapter or any regulations not applicable to local
government jurisdictions. From the date this ordinance is effective, all
buildings and enclosed structures to be constructed within the town limits of
the town of Manhattan shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable
provisions of these codes.
   B.   One copy of each code shall be kept on file in the office of the town
clerk/treasurer of the town of Manhattan.
   C.   Any amendment adopted or requested by the department of labor and
industry, building codes bureau, which applies to local government
jurisdictions including the adoption of the latest editions of the model
technical codes to include, but not be limited to, building, plumbing,
electrical and mechanical codes, or any applicable administrative rules (ARM)
modifying the aforementioned building codes, may be adopted by administrative
order, signed by the mayor and shall become effective sixty (60) days after the
order is signed.
   D.   A copy of the amendment notification will be kept in the office of the
town clerk/treasurer.
   E.   The model technical codes and administrative rules of Montana as
adopted above, and the amendments thereto, are applicable within the town of
Manhattan.
(Ord. 287, 2-10-2004; amd. Ord. 299, 11-9-2004; Ord. 06-007, 6-13-2006; Ord.
24-005, 5-9-2024)
12-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   For the construction of any building or enclosed structure greater than
two hundred square feet (200), the owner of such building project must apply to
the town for a building permit, which shall include a plumbing permit,
electrical permit, and zoning permit. Application shall be made at the town
office on a form provided by the town for such purposes. Application must be
made before the start of construction and construction may not start until such
time as the plans have been approved by the building inspector and zoning
administrator.
   B.   The applicant shall pay to the town an administrative fee for
processing the application and shall further pay for the cost of the plan
review and building inspection as set out in a schedule provided by the
building code inspector which will be available at the town office.
   C.   Plans shall be reviewed and inspections made in accordance with the
rules and procedures of the Bozeman city building code enforcement division.
(Ord. 297, 8-9-2004; amd. Ord. 24-005, 5-9-2024)
12-1-3: APPEALS BOARD:
   If after a decision is rendered by the building inspector or zoning
administrator regarding any aspect of the review or permitting process, which
the applicant disputes, the applicant may file an appeal with the Board of
Adjustment.
   A.   After the applicant files an appeal with the appeal board, the board
shall set a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30) days of the filing of the
appeal. Further, the board shall render its decision on the appeal no later
than five (5) days after the hearing.
   B.   The Board of Adjustment shall follow the process outlined in
Title 10 Chapter 3 of the Manhattan Town Code.
   C.   After the applicant files an appeal with the appeal board, the board
shall set a hearing on the appeal within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the
appeal. Further, the board shall render its decision on the appeal no later
than five (5) days after the hearing.
   D.   If the applicant is dissatisfied with the decision of the Board of
Appeals, appeal may be made in the manner described in
10-3-4-7.
(Ord. 297, 8-9-2004; amd. Ord. 24-005, 5-9-2024)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
12-2-1: Building Code Inspection And Enforcement Officer
12-2-2: Duties
12-2-3: Inspections
12-2-4: Right Of Entry
12-2-5: Enforcement
12-2-6: Authority
12-2-7: Effective Date
12-2-1: BUILDING CODE INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The town council shall appoint a building inspector who shall administer and
enforce the provisions of this title. (Ord. 288, 2-10-2004)
12-2-2: DUTIES:
It is the intent of this chapter that the building inspector shall inspect all
building construction of enclosed structures greater than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet for commercial buildings and two hundred (200) square feet
for residential buildings within the jurisdiction of the town of Manhattan, and
in accordance with the provisions of this code relating to buildings and to
inspect all buildings or structures being constructed, wrecked or altered, as
frequently as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the ordinances of the
town. (Ord. 288, 2-10-2004)
12-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
The building inspector shall be ex officio electrical inspector and ex officio
plumbing inspector, and shall perform the duties of those offices until such
time as a separate electrical inspector and plumbing inspector are provided for
and appointed. (Ord. 288, 2-10-2004)
12-2-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building inspector shall have the power to make or cause to be made an
entry into any building or premises, where the work of altering, repairing or
constructing any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making
inspections at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 288, 2-10-2004)
12-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The building inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped on the
construction, alteration or repair of buildings in the town when such work is
being done in violation of any provision or of any ordinance relating thereto.
Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the
written permission of the building inspector provided that if a stop order is
an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour.
Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of the building
inspector shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 07-002, 2-13-2007)
   A.   If possible, the building inspector will notify a project owner or an
agent thereof, of any violation of this chapter, or of any applicable building
code by verbal or written notice. If the builder or owner is not on the site,
the building inspector shall post such notice at the job site in a conspicuous
manner. If the violation is not corrected within forty eight (48) hours of
receiving notice, the building inspector shall have the power to order all work
on the project stopped as set out in this section.
   B.   If the builder or owner continues to work on the project in violation
of the stop work order, the town may pursue legal remedies as set forth in
section 50-60-109, Montana Code Annotated.
   C.   Any person served with an order to stop work, who fails to comply with
the order not later than thirty (30) days after service or within the time
fixed by the building inspector is guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in
section 50-60-110, Montana Code Annotated.
   D.   Any construction started without first obtaining the necessary permits
as set forth in section
12-1-2 of this title shall be immediately stopped and no work may continue
until such time as the plans have been approved and the necessary permits
issued. (Ord. 297, 8-9-2004)
12-2-6: AUTHORITY:
Sections 7-1-4123, 7-1-4124, and 7-5-4202, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 288,
2-10-2004)
12-2-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter does not affect the rights and duties that matured, penalties that
were incurred or proceedings that were begun before the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 288, 2-10-2004)
