TOWN OF MOORE, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through
Ordinance 3-2023, passed 5-2-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Official code
   
10.02   Title of code
   
10.03   Rules of construction; definitions
   
10.04   Amending the code
   
10.05   Effect of repealing ordinances
Passage and Posting of Ordinances
   
10.20   Referred to committee
   
10.21   Passage of ordinances
   
10.22   Posting of ordinances
   
10.23   Procedures
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 OFFICIAL CODE.
   This compilation, revision, and codification of the general ordinances of
the town is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
code of general ordinances of the Town of Moore, Montana.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.010)
§ 10.02 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code shall hereafter be known and referred to as the “Official Code of
the Town of Moore, Montana,” and a copy or copies of such code in printed form,
shall be received without further proof as the ordinances of permanent and
general effect in the town, in all courts and administrative tribunals of this
state.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.020)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the official code and all ordinances amendatory
thereof or supplementary thereto, the following rules shall be observed unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
legislative body or repugnant to the context.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever, by any of the provisions of the official
code, an intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it is
sufficient if an intent appears to defraud any person, association, or body
politic, or any combination of persons.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions herein
contained prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned or aiding or abetting the person shall
be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
   (C)   Title of sections and subsections. The title of any section or
subsection of this official code shall be deemed to in no wise restrict,
qualify, or limit the effect of the provisions set forth and contained in such
section or division.
   (D)   Effect of constitutionality. Should any portion of this official code
be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
void, such adjudication shall in no way affect the remaining portions of this
official code.
   (E)   General provisions.
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural.
      (2)   Words used in the present include the future.
      (3)   Words used in the masculine and feminine gender include, as well,
the neuter.
      (4)   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a board of officers, shall be construed as
giving such board of officers power to license or permit or authorize such
thing to be done.
   (F)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         COUNCIL. The Town Council of Moore, Montana.
         COUNTY. The County of Fergus.
         DAY. Any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight.
         KNOWINGLY. Imparts a knowledge that the fact exists which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of these ordinances. It does not require
any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
         LAND, REAL ESTATE, and REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements,
hereditaments, water rights, possessory rights, and claims.
         MAY. The act referred to is discretionary.
         MONTH. A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
         NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT, and NEGLIGENTLY. Impart a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
         OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION, and the word SWEAR includes the word
AFFIRM. Every mode of oral statement under OATH or AFFIRMATION is embraced is
the term DEPOSE.
         OFFICER. Officers and boards in charge of departments and the members
of such boards.
         OFFICIAL TIME. Standard time in the town.
         OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a
part of such building or land.
         PERSON. Includes bodies of politic and corporate, partnerships,
associations, and corporations.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights of action, and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished, and
every right or interest therein.
         PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
         PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Includes streets, alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, public ways, public squares, public places, and sidewalks.
         QUARTER. Any three-month period ending with the last day of March,
June, September, and December.
         SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
         SIGNATURE. Includes any name, mark, or sign written with the intent to
authenticate any instrument of writing.
         STATE. The State of Montana.
         TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
         TOWN. The Town of Moore, Montana and its municipality.
         WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make
intent to violate law or to injure another or to acquire an advantage.
         YEAR. Any one calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.050)
§ 10.04 AMENDING THE CODE.
   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth in full the section or
sections of the code being amended, and this shall constitute a sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement that no ordinance or any section
thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new ordinance sets forth the
revised ordinance or amended section in full.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.030)
§ 10.05 EFFECT OF REPEALING ORDINANCES.
   The repeal of ordinances as provided shall not affect any right which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, or any action or proceeding as
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinance repealed, or the tenure of office
of any person holding office at the time when they take effect; nor shall the
repeal of any ordinance thereby have the effect of reviving any ordinance
theretofore repealed or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.040)
PASSAGE AND POSTING OF ORDINANCES
§ 10.20 REFERRED TO COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Whenever an ordinance is introduced and presented by a member of the
Council at any regular meeting thereof or at any special meeting duly called
for such purpose, the Mayor shall then and there cause such ordinance to be
read.
   (B)   After the first reading of said ordinance, the same shall be referred
by the Mayor to some suitable committee which shall take said ordinance under
advisement and consideration until the next regular meeting of the Council, at
which time such committee must report thereon.
   (C)   Such ordinance shall then be read for the second time and shall
thereupon be ready for final vote upon its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.010)
§ 10.21 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any ordinance by unanimous consent of all members of the Council
present may be read by title only. The Council may by unanimous consent of all
members present suspend the foregoing rules and cause any ordinance to be
brought up for final consideration and final vote at any time after its
introduction.
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution passed by the Council shall not become
effective until 30 days after its passage, except general appropriation
providing for the ordinary and current expenses of the town, excepting also
emergency measures. In the case of emergency measures, the emergency must be
expressed in the preamble or in the body of the measure, and the measure must
receive two-thirds vote of all members of the Council elected.
   (C)   In emergency ordinances, the resolution shall include only such
measures as are immediately necessary for the preservation of peace, health,
and safety, and shall not include a franchise or license to a corporation or
individual, or any provisions for the sale of real estate, or any lease or
letting for a period exceeding one year, or the purchase or sale of personal
property exceeding $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.020)
§ 10.22 POSTING OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance may as soon as practicable after its passage and approval be
posted by the Clerk- Treasurer in three public and conspicuous places in said
town and no other publication or posting thereof shall be required, unless
specifically otherwise provided in the ordinance enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.030)
§ 10.23 PROCEDURES.
   This code has been designed to permit logical expansion without requiring
recodification or renumbering. To preserve the code’s continuity and
usefulness, it is recommend that the procedure set forth below be followed
before a new ordinance is adopted.
   (A)   First. Before drafting the ordinance, determine whether the same or
similar provisions are presently in the code. The index should be useful in
making this determination.
   (B)   Second. Compare any similar code provision with those considered for
the new ordinance and determine whether the present code provision is
sufficient, needs to be amended, or is to be repealed.
   (C)   Third. If the existing code section need only be amended, the
ordinance should simply expressly amend the code sections as follows:
      (1)   “Section 30.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:;” or
      (2)   “Sections 30.01 and 72.05 are hereby amended to read as follows:”
            “Section 30.01 ...”
            “Section 72.05 ...”
   (D)   Fourth. If the prior code provision is to be totally replaced by the
new ordinance, the new ordinance should specifically repeal the prior code
section by simply stating, “Section 30.01 is hereby repealed.”
   (E)   Fifth.
      (1)   If new sections are to be added to the code, determine whether such
sections would best fit within an existing chapter and title or whether they
should be codified as a new title or chapter. In each case, the expandable
decimal numbering system used in this volume reserves title, chapter, and
section numbers for expansion.
      (2)   If there is any question as to the proper placement of a new
provision, no reference to code section number should be made. The Clerk-
Treasurer will place the ordinance when the next supplement is prepared.
      (3)   The following language is sufficient to locate the new ordinance in
the code:
“There is hereby added to the Municipal Code of ____________, Section 33.03
which is to read as follows:”
   (F)   General procedures.
      (1)   Chapters and Titles may be amended in a similar manner.
      (2)   Do not use the words, “Chapter X is hereby repealed and re-enacted
as follows,” unless the intent is to simply repeal the material and use the
chapter number again for entirely new material. When such words are used, the
Clerk-Treasurer will rewrite the history note eliminating any reference to the
old ordinance.
(Prior Code)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
town any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor, or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act in required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this code of
ordinances shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or by imprisonment
not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each such
offense.
      (2)   Each day any violation of any provision of any ordinance shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   In the construction and interpretation of this section, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered as recovery or
penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010)
   (B)   Execution of a fine.
      (1)   If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as
on a judgment in a civil case.
      (2)   If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment until fine be paid,
the defendant must be committed to the custody of the proper officer, and by
him or her detained until the judgment complied with. The imprisonment must not
exceed one day for every $10 of the fine.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.020)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Wards
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   Description of seal. The corporate seal of the town, to be used in all
cases required by law and ordinance, shall be in the form shown:
(Prior Code, § 1.10.010)
   (B)   Clerk-Treasurer to be custodian. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the
custodian of the corporate seal and shall affix said seal’s imprint upon all
official documents, records, licenses, warrants, and/or checks.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.020)
   (C)   Design. The corporate seal of the town shall be circular in form with
inner circles of rope design. The outer circle shall be one and one-eighth
inches in diameter. It shall bear upon the upper portion of the space between
the inner and outer circles the words, “TOWN OF MOORE,” and upon the lower
portion of the said space the words, “FERGUS CO. STATE OF MONTANA.” Upon the
upper portion of the space within the inner circle shall be the word,
“OFFICIAL,” in the middle of the space within the inner circle shall appear a
suitable spacing device or figure, and in the lower portion of said space the
word, “SEAL.” All lettering shall be in a suitable Gothic style type.
(Prior Code, § 1.12.010)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   The town shall be divided into two wards for the purpose of town government,
as shown below.
(Prior Code, § 1.02.010)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   TOWN COURT
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elections
Mayor
   
30.15   Qualifications
   
30.16   Mayor to be Chief Executive Officer
   
30.17   Powers
   
30.18   Absence
   
30.19   Mayor to appoint officers
Town Council
   
30.30   Mayor as Council Chair
   
30.31   Rules of order
   
30.32   Voting; majority elects
   
30.33   Meetings
   
30.34   Quorum
Committees
   
30.45   Standing committees
   
30.46   Special committees
   
30.47   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Elections in accordance with state statutes. All primary and general
elections shall be held in accordance with the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1.06.010)
   (B)   Qualification of electors. Any person shall be qualified to vote in
any and all town elections provided they are a resident of the town or an area
which has been annexed and certified as such by the Clerk and Recorder of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1.06.020)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible for the office of Mayor unless such person
be a citizen of the United States and a resident of the town or area which has
been annexed by the town for a period of two years next preceding his or her
election.
   (B)   He or she shall reside in the town during his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.010)
§ 30.16 MAYOR TO BE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the town and shall see
that all ordinances of the town are duly respected, observed, and enforced
within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.020)
§ 30.17 POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have the power:
   (A)   To nominate, and with the consent of the Council, to appoint all
nonelective officers of the town provided for by the Council, except as
provided in this title;
   (B)   To suspend, and with the consent of the Council, to remove any
nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof;
   (C)   To cause the ordinances of the town to be executed, and to supervise
the discharge of official duty of all subordinate officers;
   (D)   To communicate to the Council at the beginning of every session, and
oftener if deemed necessary, a statement of the affairs of the town, with such
recommendations as he or she may deem proper;
   (E)   To recommend to the Council such measures connected with the public
health, cleanliness, and ornament of the town, and the improvement of the
government and finances as he or she deems expedient;
   (F)   To approve all ordinances and resolutions of the Council adopted by
it, and, in the case the same do not meet his or her approbation, to return the
same to the next regular meeting of the Council with his or her objections in
writing. No ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the Mayor must go into effect
unless the same be afterwards passed by a two-thirds vote of the whole number
of members of the Council;
   (G)   To veto any objectionable part of a resolution or ordinance, and
approve the other parts. If the Mayor fails to return any resolution or
ordinance as aforesaid, the same takes effect without further action;
   (H)   To call special meetings of the Council and, when so called, he or she
must state by message the object of the meeting and the business of the meeting
must be restricted to the object stated;
   (I)   To cause to be presented annually a full and complete statement of the
financial condition of the town;
   (J)   To bid in for the town any property sold at a tax or judicial sale
where the town is a party or interested;
   (K)   To procure and have in his or her custody the seal of the town;
   (L)   To take and administer oaths;
   (M)   To call on every citizen of the town, over the age of 18 years, to aid
in the enforcement of the laws and ordinances in case of riots. Any person who
does not obey such call forfeits to the town a fine not exceeding $500;
   (N)   To require of any of the officers of the town an exhibit of his or her
books and papers;
   (O)   To grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses against
town ordinances when, in his or her judgment, public justice would be thereby
subserved; but he or she must report all pardons granted, with the reasons
therefor, to the next Council; and
   (P)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.030)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to aid peace officer, see M.C.A. § 45-7-304
§ 30.18 ABSENCE.
   (A)   In case of absence or inability of the Mayor, the Council may appoint
one of its number to act in his or her place.
   (B)   A member of the Council while performing the duties of the Mayor shall
be styled the “Acting Mayor.” Any Acting Mayor performing the duties of the
Mayor shall be entitled to the salary of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.050)
§ 30.19 MAYOR TO APPOINT OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall, at the first meeting of the Council after the election each
year, and from time to time thereafter, appoint, subject to confirmation of the
Council, all necessary officers of the town, and he or she shall, in like
manner, appoint any other officers whose office is created by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.060)
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.30 MAYOR AS COUNCIL CHAIR.
   The Mayor shall act as the Council Chair for the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.060)
§ 30.31 RULES OF ORDER.
   The proceedings of the Council shall in all cases be governed by Robert’s
Rules of Order so far as the same are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.100)
§ 30.32 VOTING; MAJORITY ELECTS.
   (A)   The ayes and nays must be called and recorded on the final passage of
any ordinance, bill, or resolution, or making of any contract.
   (B)   The voting on the election or appointment of an officer must be viva
voce and the majority of the whole number of members elected is requisite to
appoint or elect an officer and such vote must be recorded.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.090)
§ 30.33 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time of meetings. The Council shall hold its regular meetings for the
transaction of municipal business on the first Thursday in each month, and such
other meetings to which the Council may be adjourned or which may be called,
“special meetings” may be called by the Mayor, or at the request of three
members of the Council, at any time by the Clerk-Treasurer on request, after
giving reasonable notice thereof in writing to all the members of the Council
present in the municipality. All meetings shall be held in a place provided
therefor by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010)
   (B)   Meeting called to order. The Council shall convene and be called to
order by the Mayor at 8:00 p.m. on the days designated for said meeting and the
Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to call the roll and record in the minutes, the
names of all members present, and announce whether or not a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.070)
   (C)   Order of business.
      (1)   At all meetings of the Council, the order of business shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Roll call;
         (b)   Approval of minutes: These are the minutes from the previous
meeting. The body should vole to approve without changes or approve with
changes;
         (c)   1.   Public comment: This is the time set aside for the public
to comment on any subject over which the Council has jurisdiction or regarding
a agenda item;
            2.   The subject does not have to be on the agenda, but the Council
cannot act on anything during public comment;
            3.   If Council action is required the item must be placed on the
next meeting agenda;
         (d)   Old business:
            1.   Officer reports: For example, the treasurer may have a report
to provide and explain; and
            2.   Committee reports: These can include a report of current
activities or special committee reports.
         (e)   New business:
            1.   Approval of consent items, if any; those are routine items,
voted on in a single motion co approve; and
            2.   Other scheduled matters.
         (f)   Unscheduled matters/concerns: This is a time when members can
bring a concern forward before the body that is not otherwise listed on the
agenda. No action can be taken at this time; and
         (g)   Adjournment.
      (2)   For good cause, the Mayor may, upon motion and majority vote,
change the order of business.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.080)
§ 30.34 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business, but less number may meet and adjourn at any time
stated and may compel the attendance of absent members under such rules and
penalties as the Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.050)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.45 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the first regular meeting of the Council after the first Monday in May of
each year, the Mayor shall appoint committee members of the Council for the
ensuing year as follows:
   (A)   Committee on Finance;
   (B)   Committee on Streets and Alleys;
   (C)   Committee on Water; and
   (D)   Committee on Health.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020)
§ 30.46 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint such special committees as deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030)
§ 30.47 DUTIES.
   (A)   Committee on Finance. All matters relating to the general matters
relating to the general condition, revenues, and expenditures of the
municipality. Said committee shall audit all books of account of all the
municipal officers and shall investigate and report on the financial condition,
revenues, and expenditures of the municipality from time to time and as
directed by the Council.
   (B)   Committee on Streets and Alleys. All matters relating to the streets
and alleys of the municipality and it shall investigate and report on the
condition of the same from time to time and as directed by the Council.
   (C)   Committee on Water. All matters relating to the water system of the
town, mains, and facilities, both public and private.
   (D)   Committee on Health. All matters relating to the public health and
welfare within the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.040)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries and bonds
   
31.02   Worker’s compensation program
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.15   Appointment
   
31.16   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SALARIES AND BONDS.
   (A)   Salaries. The salaries of the officers and employees of the town shall
be set annually by resolution or ordinance of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010)
   (B)   Bonding of officers. All town officers shall be included in a blanket
bond for the faithful performance of their duties; said bond to be executed by
a duly authorized surety company, the premiums thereon to be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.020)
§ 31.02 WORKER’S COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   The town’s revised and restated worker’s compensation program (agreement),
with an effective date of July 1, 20214, and any and all amendments, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. passed 4-14-2014)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall, subject to the advice and consent of the Council, appoint a
Clerk-Treasurer who shall hold office for the duration of his or her
appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010)
§ 31.16 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to:
   (A)   Receive all moneys that come to the town, either from taxation or
otherwise, and to pay the same out of the warrant of the Mayor, countersigned
by the Clerk-Treasurer, drawn in accordance with law;
   (B)   Perform such duties in the collection of taxes, license fees, or
assessments as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance;
   (C)   Present at the regular meeting of each month to the Council a full and
detailed statement of the amounts of money belonging to the town received by
him or her and by him or her disbursed during the preceding month, and the
state of each particular fund, which statement must be verified by his or her
oath;
   (D)   Keep the books and accounts of the town in such manner as to correctly
present the condition of the finances thereof which must always be open to the
inspection of the Mayor, Council, or any member thereof;
   (E)   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits
and credits thereof;
   (F)   Give every person paying to him or her money as Clerk-Treasurer a
receipt therefor specifying the date of payment, the amount, and for what paid;
   (G)   Render at any time an account to the Council, showing the money on
hand and the condition of the treasury;
   (H)   Keep a register of all warrants paid, which must show the date, amount
and number, and the person to whom, and the fund from which the same was paid;
   (I)   Annually make out and submit to the Council at its last meeting prior
to May 1, a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures during the past
fiscal year and an abstract thereof must be published in the official
newspaper;
   (J)   Pay out, in the order which they are registered, all warrants
presented for payment when there are funds in the treasury to pay the same;
   (K)   Deposit all public moneys in his or her possession and under his or
her control, excepting such as may be required for current business, in any
solvent bank or banks located in such town, subject to national supervision or
state examination, as the Council shall designate and no other;
   (L)   Attend all meetings of the Council, to record and sign the proceedings
thereof and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions, and contracts passed, adopted,
or entered into, and to sign, number, and keep a record of all licenses,
commissions, or permits granted or authorized by the Council;
   (M)   Record all ordinances, resolutions, and bylaws passed and adopted by
the Council;
   (N)   Enter in a book kept for that purpose the date, amount, the person in
whose favor, and for what purpose warrants are drawn upon the town treasury;
   (O)   Countersign and cause to be published or posted, as provided by law,
all ordinances, bylaws, or resolutions passed and adopted by the Council;
   (P)   File and keep all records, books, papers, or property belonging to the
town and to deliver the same to his or her successor when qualified;
   (Q)   Prepare and process financial statements as required by state law; and
   (R)   Perform such other duties as the Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Bail; bond
   
32.02   Receipts and reports
   
32.03   Trials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 WARRANTS; ARRESTING OFFICER.
   (A)   Issuance of warrant. Upon filing the complaint, the County Judge
shall, if the complaint charges the violation of any municipal ordinance, issue
a warrant to any police officer and the officer must serve the warrant by
taking the defendant into custody and bringing him or her before the County
Judge.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.040)
   (B)   Duty of officer arresting. The officer making the arrest shall make
due return on his or her warrant; and if any officer arrests a person without a
warrant, said officer shall forthwith file in the Town Court a complaint
against the person arrested as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.050)
§ 32.02 BAIL; BOND.
   (A)   Bail.
      (1)   Any person arrested for a violation of a municipal law may be
admitted to bail by giving bonds with security to be approved by the County
Judge and if he or she cannot act, then the County Sheriff, in such sum as he,
she, or either of them may specify.
      (2)   The bond shall be conditioned that the defendant will appear at the
time named therein before the Town Court and answer to the charge for which he
or she has been arrested.
      (3)   The bond shall be filed in the Town Court, and if the defendant
fails to appear at the time mentioned in the bond, the Judge may declare the
bond forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.060)
   (B)   Money deposited in lieu of bond.
      (1)   Any person arrested for the violation of a municipal law, in lieu
of the bond mentioned in division (A) above, may deposit with the County Judge
or County Sheriff such sum as may be specified by either of said officers who
shall give to the person arrested a receipt for the money so deposited in lieu
of bail.
      (2)    If the person depositing the money appears before the Town Court
at the time of the first setting thereof after the money was so deposited, the
said money shall be returned to the person depositing it, but if he or she
fails to appear, the County Judge shall declare the deposit forfeited to the
town and cause the same to be paid into the treasury.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.070)
§ 32.03 RECEIPTS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Receipts must be made in triplicate. When a fine imposed by the County
Judge for the violation of a municipal law be paid in money, he or she shall
issue a receipt therefor in triplicate on blanks to be furnished him or her by
the Clerk-Treasurer, another to accompany the County Judge’s monthly report to
the Council, and the other to remain in the Town Court as part of its report.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.080)
   (B)   Report filed with Clerk-Treasurer. The County Judge shall make out and
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer monthly a report on the number of
cases tried, the person convicted, the fine and cost imposed and whether the
same has been paid, the number of days any person convicted has been sentenced
to confinement in the town jail by the County Judge, and before filing the
same, he or she shall pay over to the Clerk-Treasurer all moneys received in
payment of fines and make a receipt therefor, which receipt shall be attached
to the report filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.090)
§ 32.04 TRIALS.
   (A)   All proceedings in the Town Court shall be conducted in the same
manner as are trials in criminal cases before justices of the peace under the
state laws, and all persons tried before the Town Court shall have the same
remedies and rights of appeal as now are or may hereafter be prescribed by law
in criminal cases before justices of the peace.
   (B)   The County Judge shall have the same right and authority to punish for
contempt and maintain order in his or her court that justices of the peace
have. But nothing in this section provided shall be construed as allowing any
party a change of venue in cases of a violation of any town law, nor shall
anything herein be construed as allowing a trial by jury for a violation of any
town law.
   (C)   All proceedings for the violation of any town law, both civil and
criminal, must be prosecuted in the name of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.100)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Library Board
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Board; appointment and term
   
33.03   Duties
   
33.04   Records
   
33.05   Funds
   
33.06   Warrants
   
33.07   Revenues
   
33.08   Annual tax levy
   
33.09   Gift books
Planning Commission
   
33.20   Creation
   
33.21   Terms of office
   
33.22   Organization
   
33.23   Meetings
   
33.24   Duties
   
33.99   Penalty
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a free public library for the use of the
citizens under such regulations as may be prescribed by a Board of Directors
hereinafter provided and subject to the approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.010)
§ 33.02 BOARD; APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   (A)   The affairs of such library shall be managed by a board of four
directors appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council who shall hold
their positions for two years, except that the persons first appointed as
members of such Board shall hold their positions two for one year and two for
two years.
   (B)   The members of said Board shall be appointed each year. The
Chairperson of the Library Committee of the Council shall be ex officio a
member of the Board, and as such shall have the same power as other members of
said Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.020)
§ 33.03 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board to:
   (A)   When convened, shall organize and make rules for its own government;
   (B)   Keep a record of its transactions open at all times to the inspection
of a committee of the Council;
   (C)   Have power to provide and furnish suitable rooms;
   (D)   Employ a suitable person for librarian;
   (E)   Receive hooks from all sources for the use of such library;
   (F)   Purchase books therefor with any money at its disposal; and
   (G)   Prescribe all needful rules and regulations for the use of the books
and to preserve the same from loss or damage.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.030)
§ 33.04 RECORDS.
   All bills for expense incurred in maintaining the library, including all
accounts of officers and employees for salaries and compensation, all accounts
for hooks and materials purchased, and all other expenses of the library, shall
be submitted to the Council in the manner provided for by state law, and when
allowed by the Council, shall be paid by warrants drawn upon the Library Fund,
which is hereby created and established.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.040)
§ 33.05 FUNDS.
   (A)   Library Fund. The Clerk-Treasurer shall place to the credit of the
Library Fund all moneys received by him or her from the library tax, and said
money shall be paid out of said fund as authorized from time to time upon
warrants drawn thereon in the usual way.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.050)
   (B)   Library Endowment Fund.
      (1)   Any and all moneys given or bequeathed to the public library of the
town, unless otherwise specially provided by the terms of the gift or bequest,
shall be placed in a permanent fund to be known as the “Library Endowment
Fund.”
      (2)   The moneys of which fund shall be managed and invested by the
Board, and the principal of such fund shall be and remain inviolate, and only
the income therefrom shall ever be expended, and that only for the purchase of
books for the library.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.090)
§ 33.06 WARRANTS.
   (A)   In case there shall be money in the Library Fund when claims against
the same shall be allowed, warrants may nevertheless be drawn upon said fund in
payment of claims allowed, provided that such warrants shall be at no time in
excess of the probable receipts from taxes for the year in which such warrants
are drawn.
   (B)   Warrants so drawn may be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer, and if
there be no sufficient funds in his or her hands to pay the same, he or she
shall register warrants in the usual way, and warrants so registered shall from
the date of registration bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum, and shall
be paid in the order of their registration as soon as the money shall be in the
hands of the Clerk-Treasurer to pay the same.
   (C)   At any time when the Clerk-Treasurer shall have sufficient funds in
his or her hands to pay outstanding warrants upon the Library Fund, he or she
shall give notice of his or her readiness to pay in the same manner provided
for giving notice and calling in warrants upon other funds and from the date
fixed in such notice interest upon such warrants shall cease.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.060)
§ 33.07 REVENUES.
   The Board shall not, without permission from the Council, hereafter incur
any indebtedness or liability on account of said library in excess of the
amount of money available for the payment of such indebtedness or liability,
but shall so manage the affairs of said library so that the annual revenue
shall be ample to pay all expenses and obligations of the library.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.070)
§ 33.08 ANNUAL TAX LEVY.
   The annual tax of three mills on a dollar on all taxable property in the
town is hereby levied for the support and maintenance of such library.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.080)
§ 33.09 GIFT BOOKS.
   Whenever such gift or bequest shall amount to the sum of $500 or more, the
books purchased with the income from such gifts or bequests shall be
appropriately labeled as belonging to the “__________ Collection,” as the case
may be.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.100)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.20 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Planning Commission, hereinafter referred to
as the “Commission,” which shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
   (B)   Provided, however that one of said members to be appointed shall be a
member of the Council and the remaining two shall be residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010)
§ 33.21 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The terms of the members of said Commission shall be for two years.
Save and except:
      (1)   The member from the Council who shall serve for one year; and
      (2)   That the first year when one member of the Commission shall be
appointed for two years and the other member shall be appointed for one year,
so that two new members will be appointed each year.
   (B)   At the first regular meeting of the Council, in May of each year, or
as soon thereafter as practicable, the Mayor shall appoint the two new members
to said Commission, one of whom shall be a member of the Council, to replace
those whose terms have expired.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020)
§ 33.22 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Immediately after the appointment of the members of this Commission
and after the appointment by the Mayor of new members in May of each year, said
Commission shall meet, and from its members shall be elected a Chairperson,
Vice Chairperson, and Secretary who shall hold their offices respectively for
one year.
   (B)   The Chairperson and, in his or her absence, the Vice Chairperson,
shall preside at all meetings and perform such other duties as shall be
required and directed by said Commission.
   (C)   The Secretary, or in his or her absence, a member designated by the
Commission, shall keep accurate minutes of all proceedings of said Commission
in a book provided for that purpose to be called “Records and Minutes of the
Planning Commission of the Town of Moore.”
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
§ 33.23 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Commission shall be called by the Chairperson of
said Commission at a time and place to be designated by him or her.
   (B)   At least 24 hours notice of all meetings shall be given.
   (C)   After receiving such a notice, any member who shall be absent from
four consecutive meetings without adequate excuse shall be automatically
dropped from said Commission and a new member appointed to fill his or her
unexpired term.
   (D)   A majority of all members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   In all parliamentary practice not herein provided for, Robert’s Rules
of Order, revised, shall govern.
(Prior Code,§ 2.16.040)
§ 33.24 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall make a study and develop plans for improvement
and development of such municipal functions and facilities as:
      (1)   Streets;
      (2)   Parks;
      (3)   Sites for public buildings;
      (4)   Public reservations;
      (5)   Zoning;
      (6)   Public utilities; and
      (7)   Additions to the town and other matters related thereto.
   (B)   Upon having made such a study of any such matter and having developed
a plan or proposal relative thereto, said Commission shall have power to
recommend to the Council that such plan or proposal be adopted and appropriate
action taken thereon.
   (C)   In the event the Council chooses not to adopt such plan or proposal,
it shall return said plan or proposal to the Commission within 30 days of
submission of the same, together with a statement of the reasons why favorable
action has not been taken thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall willfully, maliciously, wantonly, or unnecessarily
steal, take, or carry away any books, magazines, or papers belonging to the
free public library contrary to the rules or regulations prescribed by the
Board of the said library, or shall mutilate, deface, destroy, or in any way
injure any book, magazine, or newspaper, or other property belonging to said
free public library, or shall wantonly interfere with or disturb those in
charge of said library at its rooms, or those legitimately and properly using
and enjoying the privileges of the rooms, in addition to the penalties
prescribed by the Library Board, such persons shall, upon conviction thereof,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.110)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
34.01   Town Fire and Police Department
   
34.02   Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plan
§ 34.01 TOWN FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town’s fire and police services are covered by the Moore Rural
Fire Department and the Fergus County Sheriff Department.
   (B)   Any reference to a town fire department shall mean the Moore Rural
Fire Department and any reference to a town sheriff or police department shall
mean the Fergus County Sheriff Department.
§ 34.02 PRE-DISASTER MITIGATION PLAN.
   The County 2014 Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plan, and any and all amendments, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. The
Plan can be put into action by the Town Council, the County DES Coordinator, or
the town’s designee, and is effective upon execution.
(Res. 10-16-2004, passed 10-16-2004; Res. 2014-11-01, passed 11-10-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Water Department
   
50.01   Water Department established
   
50.02   Officers and employees; appointed
   
50.03   Water Works Committee
   
50.04   Superintendent; duties
   
50.05   Clerk-Treasurer; duties
   
50.06   Disposition; contracts
   
50.07   Fire protection; connections
   
50.08   Restrictions
   
50.09   Service pipes
   
50.10   Application
   
50.11   Claims and demands
   
50.12   County Sheriff Department; duties
   
50.13   Water rates
   
50.14   Rules and regulations
   
50.15   Amendment; authority
   
50.16   Turning on water
   
50.17   Violations
   
50.18   Water hookup prices
Service Pipes
   
50.30   Water pipe specifications
   
50.31   Water service provisions
   
50.32   Curb cocks
   
50.33   Repairs and replacements
   
50.34   Regulations
Water Well Regulations
   
50.45   Definition
   
50.46   Compliance required
   
50.47   Permits
   
50.48   Procedure
   
50.49   Permissible use
   
50.50   Inspection
Sprinkling Days
   
50.65   Definitions
   
50.66   Unlawful activities
   
50.67   Violations
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.01 WATER DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of regulating and operating the system or water owned by the
town, a department of the town government is hereby established to be
designated a “Water Department” which shall be under the management and control
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.010)
§ 50.02 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; APPOINTED.
   The Council shall appoint all officers and employees of said Water
Department and fix their salaries or compensation upon recommendation and
nomination to be made and reported to the Council by a committee on water.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.020)
§ 50.03 WATER WORKS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Water Works Committee. Upon the organization of the Council, after
each election, there shall be appointed from the Council, a committee of two
members thereof who, for the ensuing term, shall be the Committee on Sewer and
Water, and who shall have primary supervision and control of the town Water
Works, its plants, and employees, and who, with the Superintendent of the Water
Works, shall constitute a Water Department and perform the duties in this
chapter provided and generally manage and control said Department.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.030)
   (B)   Duties. The Sewer and Water Committee shall, under the control of the
Council, have general supervision of the Water Works, but in no case shall the
Committee cause any expenditure of more than $100 without action being first
taken by the Council and provided by law, and as in sections required.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.040)
Cross-reference:
   Committee on Water, see § 30.52
§ 50.04 SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties heretofore imposed, the Superintendent of the
Water Works shall:
   (A)    Do and perform all work necessary in the proper pumping of water at
the pump house, and attend to and perform all work necessarily connected
therewith;
   (B)   Superintend generally the tapping of the mains;
   (C)   Do and perform all work promptly that may be required in order that
the Water Works plant shall at all times be a serviceable one, insofar as it is
within his or her power and control; and
   (D)   Perform such other duties in the management of said Department as may
from time to time be required or directed by the Council, or the Sewer and
Water Committee, under direction of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.050)
§ 50.05 CLERK-TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to collect all water
rentals when the same shall be due and payable, and to keep correct and true
books of accounts showing a true and complete status of each individual water
user’s account is such a manner and form as will readily enable the
Superintendent to ascertain the names of all delinquents.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to have charge of
the clerical work of the Department and keep sufficient books at all times to
show the true state of the business of the Department.
      (2)   He or she also shall prepare and forward notices of water rental
due to all users on the first day of each month, together with such other
notices that may from time to time be required in the interest of the
Department.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be required to do and perform such other
duties as may be required by the Council, in addition to those related herein.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.060)
Cross-reference:
   Other duties of the Clerk-Treasurer, see §
31.16
§ 50.06 DISPOSITION; CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The rules, regulations, and water rates herein contained in this
chapter shall be considered a part of the contract with each person, company,
or corporation who is supplied with water through the Water Works of the town,
and such person, company, or corporation taking water shall be considered to
express his, her, or its consent to be bound thereby.
   (B)   When any of the said rules or regulations are violated, the water
shall be cut off from the building or other place of violation, and shall not
again be turned on, except by orders of the Superintendent of the Water Works,
or his or her duly authorized agent, and upon the payment of the sum of $10 and
such other damages as the Council may deem to have accrued by reason thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.070) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 FIRE PROTECTION; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Connections for fire protection. If the owner or proprietors of
stores, warehouses, and public buildings desire water for fire protection only,
and are regular customers of water from the town Water Works, they will be
permitted to connect, at their expense upon application, to street mains.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.090)
   (B)   Use of water during a fire. In the town, all irrigation or sprinkling
shall be stopped when the fire siren is sounded and remain so until the
emergency is over.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.130)
§ 50.08 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Not more than one house shall be supplied from one tap, except by
special permission, and where two or more parties are supplied from one service
pipe connected with the distributing main.
   (B)   A failure on the part of any one of such parties to pay the water
rental when due, or to comply with the rules and regulations of the Water
Department, or when any person whether owner, tenant, or lessee permits any
person not a member of his or her family to use water from his or her hydrant
or pipes when such person has not first obtained the consent of the
Superintendent, the water on such premises shall, after ten days notice, be
turned off.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.110) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   Service pipes intended to supply two or more distinct premises like
trailer courts or motels or tenants, and where only one stop is used, the
person or persons controlling the same must pay the water rent of all parties
thus supplied, as separate water bills will not be made.
   (B)   Upon failure of such person or persons to so pay the water rental upon
the day when due after a diligent written record of collection effort of ten
days, such water supplied will be turned off.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.120) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring a supply of water must make application therefor
to the Clerk-Treasurer on such form as may be subscribed by the Council.
   (B)   Not more than one house shall be supplied from any one tap but by
written consent of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.140)
§ 50.11 CLAIMS AND DEMANDS.
   (A)   All house boilers shall be constructed with a vacuum valve at the top
inlet pipe and be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure and ram of the water
in the main.
   (B)   All persons taking water shall keep their own service pipes and
apparatus in good repairs and protected from frost at their own risk and
expense, and it is stipulated by the town that no claims or demands shall be
made by any consumer against it by reason of the breaking of any service pipe
or service cock, or if from any cause the supply of water shall fail or from
any damage arising from the shutting off of the water to repair mains making
connections or extensions, or from any other purpose that may be deemed
necessary.
   (C)   The right is reserved to shut off the supply of water at any time upon
reasonable notice when possible to be given any permit granted or regulation to
the contrary notwithstanding.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.150)
§ 50.12 COUNTY SHERIFF DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff Department to give vigilant aid
to the Water Department in the enforcement of all rules and regulations and, to
this end, they shall report all violations therefor which shall come to their
knowledge to the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.160)
§ 50.13 WATER RATES.
   (A) Class A rate.
 
Commercial or residential                                  $5 per month
Moore Public School                                        $50 per month
Special sprinkling rate (per month for five- month season) $3 per lot per month
 
   (B)   Class B rate.
 
Bulk water sales; portable tanks each $2 per 1,000
time filled
Minimum bill                          Flat rate
Minimum charge, per tank, each time   $1 per fill
filled
Prompt payment discounts              None
Yard hydrant (Independent tap)        $4 per lot per month for five-season
                                      month
4-inch hydrant (dry, fire)            $2 per month
 
(Prior Code, § 4.00.170) (Res. 9-11-2006, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 50.14 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the charges mentioned in §
50.13 and of any and all charges provided by law, before any person, firm, or
corporation shall connect to or with the waterline of the town, they shall pay
an application and inspection fee to the Water Department a sum of $500 for
each new connection.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.180)
   (B)   Rule 1.
      (1)   All accounts are due and payable on the first day of each month for
water consumed in the previous month. When it deemed necessary, a cash deposit
or approved guarantee shall be required. No water shall be furnished free to
any customer. Charges for water are for one day, to a complete calendar month,
which constitutes the regular billing period as flat rate. Minimum charge will
be collected for any portion of a month and is the same as monthly flat rate
charge.
      (2)   All bills will be considered delinquent if not paid by within ten
days of the billing date. In case of errors in billing, contact the Clerk-
Treasurer or make a written complaint to the Council giving the reason that he
or she believes his or her bill needs adjustment.
   (C)   Rule 2. All applications for water must be made at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer on proper forms supplied by the town, stating all purposes for
which water will be used upon their premises. This form is to be on file for
all water users served by the Water Department.
   (D)   Rule 3. All rates for water are flat rate charges and is for water
that is used for domestic purposes, lawn sprinkling, and any other uses that
may be allowed by the Water Department. Lawn sprinkling must be on the lot
which is occupied by the residence that uses the water, other lots are defined
as vacant with buildings, or barns, or trailer homes are separate from and are
charged for as separate charge. In no case will the Water Department furnish
water from one house to another even if owned by one owner.
   (E)   Rule 4. If a consumer furnishes other people or places with water,
without written permission from the utility office, or uses the water for other
purposes than those authorized, it shall be a violation of his or her contract
and after ten days’ written notice, the service at this location will be shut
off and service discontinued until such time the additional service furnished
has been paid for plus the reconnection charge.
   (F)   Rule 5.
      (1)   Every customer who is about to vacate any premises supplied with
service by the utility, or who for any reason wishes to have the service
discontinued, shall give at least 24 hours’ notice thereof to the utility,
specifying the date on which it is desired that service be discontinued. Until
the utility shall have such notice, the customer shall be held responsible for
all service rendered.
      (2)   Should the consumer desire to discontinue the use of water
temporarily, the utility when notified to do so in writing, will shut off the
water at the curb and allowance will be made as the flat rate regulations
permit. No deductions in bills will be made for the time any service pipes are
frozen.
(Res. 2023-10-05, passed 10-5-2023)
§ 50.15 AMENDMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Water Department reserves the right to adopt from time to time any
and all rules and regulations concerning the consumption of water, the taping
of mains, the installation of service, or the act of licensed plumbers and all
such rules and regulations when so adopted by said Department shall be
certified by the Sewer and Water Committee of the Council and by the Council
approved.
   (B)   After submitted to and approved by the State Public Service
Commission, thereupon every such regulation and rule shall be considered a part
of and an amendment to this code of ordinances and shall become a part of the
contract of service with every consumer and binding upon every licensed
plumber.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.190)
§ 50.16 TURNING ON WATER.
   (A)   The water shall not be turned on in any house or service pipe except
by written order of the Superintendent of the Water Works and not until after
the applicant has fully complied with every requirement contained herein.
   (B)   This rule will not prohibit plumbers from turning water into any pipe
for the purpose of testing only.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.100)
§ 50.17 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any customer violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense or damage occasioned the town by
reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.200) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 WATER HOOKUP PRICES.
   Water hookup prices are hereby established as set by resolutions from time
to time.
SERVICE PIPES
§ 50.30 WATER PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   From and after this date, all new service pipes for water supply from
the water mains to any property shall not be less than three-quarters inch and
shall be of good, sound brass, copper, or other approved non-rusting materials,
and said approved non-rusting pipe shall be installed from said water main to
the curb cock and curb service box.
   (B)   The three-quarter-inch line is uniform to each residence or business
that is covered by the flat rate charge. If larger service pipe is needed by
any patron, a special permit may be granted by the Water Department, if
approved by the Council.
   (C)   Sewer and water service pipes shall be installed in separate trenches
ten feet apart.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.010)
§ 50.31 WATER SERVICE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Stop and waste cock. A stop and waste cock must be placed at some
convenient point inside the building, located where it cannot freeze, and where
water in the building can be readily shut off and water pipes drained to
prevent freezing.
   (B)   Waste of water.
      (1)   Waste of water is prohibited, and consumers must keep their
fixtures and service pipes in good working order at their own expense and keep
all waterways closed when not in use.
      (2)   Leakey fixtures must be repaired at once without waiting for notice
from the utility.
      (3)   If reasonable notice is given by the utility and the repair is not
made, the water will be shut off by the utility without further notice.
   (C)   Mains. The system of mains must extend to the point where service is
desired.
   (D)   Extension of mains. Before the utility commences construction of a new
water system or major alteration or extension of the existing public water
system, an engineering report along with necessary plans and specifications for
the public water system will be submitted to the Department of Health and
Environmental Sciences, Water Quality Bureau, for review and approval pursuant
to M.C.A. § 75-6-112(4) and the rules of the Department of Health and
Environmental Sciences.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.020)
§ 50.32 CURB COCKS.
   Each separate building, house, or premises must be controlled by a separate
curb cock placed within or near the line of the street curb, but at a distance
no greater than six feet from the property owner’s lot line. The curb cock and
box must be easily accessible and must be kept in repair by the owner of the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.030)
§ 50.33 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENTS.
   All repairs to or replacements of any existing service pipes for water
supply and all other service pipes for water supply hereinafter laid under any
street within the limits for the town shall be of new materials and as
specified in §
50.30.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.040)
§ 50.34 REGULATIONS.
   The Council may from time to time issue written rules and regulations for
usage of the municipal water and the costs to those from out of the town limits
using said water. The rules and regulations adopted by the Council shall be
posted at the post office in the town. The Town Supervisor shall have the power
to issue tickets for violation of said rules and regulations.
(Ord. 4.02, passed 6-4-1981) Penalty, see §
50.99
WATER WELL REGULATIONS
§ 50.45 DEFINITION.
   (A)   (1)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
      (2)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WATER WELL. Any form of dug, drilled, or other water producing system
independent of the town water system and independent of any normal irrigation
ditch system.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.010)
§ 50.46 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or operate any water well
within the town limits or on property served by the town water system without
first conforming to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.020) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 PERMITS.
   (A)   All persons who desire to install or operate any water well after the
effective date of this subchapter shall obtain approval of their proposed
installation and a permit therefor in advance from the Director of Public Works
and shall give notice of completion of the installation.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.030)
   (B)   A permit to drill a water well shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer
upon completion of a written application by the person desiring to drill a
water well and of a payment of a fee of $10 for said permit and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.070)
§ 50.48 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All persons who have installed water wells prior to the effective date
of this subchapter shall, in lieu of a permit, notify the Director of Public
Works of such existing installation. Failure to give such notice shall be a
violation of this section.
   (B)   All water well systems installed prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and in nonconformity herewith shall be converted, modified,
adjusted, or otherwise made to comply herewith as follows: Any metering or
plumbing charges required by the Director of Public Works and the terms of this
subchapter shall be accomplished within 90 days from and after the inspection
by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.040) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.49 PERMISSIBLE USE.
   (A)   Residential. Water wells covered by this subchapter shall be used on
residential properties only for yard and garden purposes and may not be used
for any household purposes and the same may not be connected to or in any way
plumbed so that they can be used in conjunction with or attached to the water
lines connected to the town water system.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial. Any water wells used for commercial or
industrial purposes must be plumbed according to the requirements of the
Director of Public Works and may not be connected to pipes used in common with
the town water supply system so as to prevent contamination of the municipal
water system.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.050)
§ 50.50 INSPECTION.
   To insure and protect the health and welfare of the people of the town who
are using the town water supply system, an inspection of all water wells by the
Director of Public Works shall be made before the same are placed in operation.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.060)
SPRINKLING DAYS
§ 50.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. All persons who use or cause to be used water provide by the town
through its municipal water supply system.
   SPRINKLING. The watering of any outside garden or lawn by means of
sprinklers, open hoses, or other devices.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.010)
§ 50.66 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sprinkle or cause to be
sprinkled in said town at any time other than during sprinkling hours.
   (B)   Unattended open-hose irrigation is not allowed.
   (C)   Wasteful use of water is prohibited.
   (D)   The sounding of the fire siren during sprinkling season shall require
shutting off all sprinklers until emergency is over.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.020) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.67 VIOLATIONS.
   Any customer violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be served by
the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.030) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any water consumer who shall continue to violate §§
50.01 through
50.16 beyond the time limit of notice shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for
each violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.00.200)
   (C)   Penalties as set forth in §
50.16 and division (B) above shall apply to §§
50.30 through
50.33.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.050)
   (D)   For each violation of §
50.34, a fine not to exceed $500 may be imposed.
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating §§
50.45 through
50.50 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not exceeding $50 or be imprisoned for a period not
exceeding 30 days or be both so fined and imprisoned.
      (2)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4.10.080)
   (F)   Any water consumer who shall continue to violate §§
50.65 through
50.67 beyond the time limit of notice shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for
each violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.030)
(Ord. 4.02, passed 6-4-1981)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Regulations
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Uses of public sewers required
   
51.03   Private wastewater disposal
   
51.04   Sanitary sewer, building sewers, and connections
   
51.05   Use of the public sewer
   
51.06   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
51.07   Hearing Board
   
51.08   Violations
Service Charges
   
51.20   Purpose
   
51.21   Operation and maintenance annual costs
   
51.22   User wastewater contribution percentage
   
51.23   Surcharge system; excess BOD and TSS
   
51.24   Determining user wastewater service charge
   
51.25   Payment
   
51.26   Review
   
51.27   Notification
   
51.28   Wastes to wastewater treatment system; prohibited
   
51.29   Clear water connections; prohibited
   
51.30   New sewers and connections; design and construction
   
51.31   Surcharge rate schedule for above normal strength wastes
   
51.32   Rate schedule
   
51.33   Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund schedule
   
51.34   User charge system
   
51.35   Sewer hookup prices
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of the drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A
wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly
pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GEARING BOARD. The board appointed according to provisions of §
51.05.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic and sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. See SHALL.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration 10–7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. See MAY.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water, or polluted water from any source. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of writer pollution control of the town, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06)
§ 51.02 USES OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place deposits or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other
polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this section.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy valt, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley, or rights-of-way in which there is now
located, or may be in the future located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the town, is hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein; and
      (2)   To connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this section, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 125 feet of
the property line.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application by the town, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Superintendent.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   (1)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   (1)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
Department of Public Health of the state and the Health Department of the
county.
      (2)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this section, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain ths private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SANITARY SEWER, BUILDING SEWERS, AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   (a)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town.
         (b)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent.
         (c)   A permit and inspection fee of $250 for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit and $500 for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the town does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and back-filling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state.
      (2)   In the absence of suitable code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.P. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary newer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent and the State Department of Health for purposes of disposal of
polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Street, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent and the State Department of
Health.
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) above and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and the State Department of Health.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural
outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to human or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works. Each user which
discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing
the effluent or the sludge of the wastewater treatment works shall pay for such
increased costs; and/or
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair, fleshings,
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process,
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitation
established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant,
and other pertinent factors.
      (3)   The limitations or restrictions on material or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils,
fat, or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
51.01 BUILDING SEWER). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
         (h)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
SLUG as defined herein;
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and/or
         (j)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the
judgement of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (L) below.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and the State
Department of Health.
   (F)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified
in division (D)(c) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and the state plumbing code and shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (3)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent.
      (4)   Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by
the owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner(s) of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with each necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes, such structures, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner(s) at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so to be safe and accessible at
all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this section. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
      (2)   The industry may withhold information considered confidential.
      (3)   The industry must establish that the revelation to the public of
the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.05(H).
   (D)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06)
§ 51.07 HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   A Hearing Board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of
differences between the Superintendent and sewer users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this chapter by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The cost of the arbitration will be divided between the
municipality and the sewer user.
   (B)   One member of the Board shall be a registered professional engineer;
one member shall be a practicing sanitary engineer; one member shall be a
representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise; one member shall be a
lawyer; and one member shall be selected at large for his or her interest in
accomplishing the objectives of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06)
§ 51.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06) Penalty, see §
51.99
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue
to pay all costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater
system.
   (B)   The costs shall be distributed to all users of the wastewater system
in proportion to each user’s contribution to the total loading of the treatment
works.
   (C)   Factors such as strength (BOD and TSS), volume, and delivery flow rate
characteristics shall be considered and included as a basis for the user’s
contribution to ensure a proportional distribution of operation and maintenance
cost to each user or user class.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.21 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ANNUAL COSTS.
   (A)   The town, or its Engineer, shall determine the total annual costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed.
   (B)   The total annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include but
need not be limited to labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance,
necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable
contingency fund.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.22 USER WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The town, or its Engineer, shall determine each user’s average
daily volume of wastewater which has been discharged to the wastewater system,
which shall then be divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater
discharged to the wastewater system, to determine each user’s volume
contribution percentage. The amount used as the total average daily volume of
wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow.
      (2)   The town, or its Engineer, shall determine each user’s average
daily poundage of five-day 20°C Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) which has been
discharged to the wastewater system, which shall then be divided by the average
daily poundage of all five-day BOD discharged to the wastewater system to
determine each user’s BOD contribution percentage.
   (B)   The town, or its Engineer, shall determine for each user, or user
class, the average daily suspended solids (TSS) poundage discharged to the
wastewater system which shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of
all TSS discharged to the wastewater system to determine the user’s TSS
contribution percentage. Each user’s volume contribution percentage, BOD
contribution percentage, and TSS contribution percentage shall be multiplied by
the annual operation and maintenance costs for wastewater treatment of the
total volume flow or the total five-day 20°C BOD and of the total TSS
respectively.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.23 SURCHARGE SYSTEM; EXCESS BOD AND TSS.
   (A)   The town, or its Engineer, will assess a surcharge rate for all non-
residential users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths greater than
the average residential user, such user will be assessed a surcharge sufficient
to cover the cost of treating their above normal strength wastes.
   (B)   Normal strength wastes are considered to be 200 ppm BOD and 250 ppm
TSS. The surcharge rate structure for such above normal strength waste
discharges is in §
51.31 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.24 DETERMINING USER WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Each non-residential user’s wastewater treatment cost contributions as
determined in §§
51.22 and
51.23 shall be added together to determine such user’s annual wastewater
service charge.
   (B)   Residential users may be considered to be one class of user and an
equitable service charge may be determined for each user based upon an estimate
of the total wastewater contribution of this class of user.
   (C)   The governing body may classify industrial, commercial, and other non-
residential establishments as a residential user, provided that the wastes from
these establishments are equivalent to the wastes from the average residential
user; with respect to volume, suspended solids, and BOD.
   (D)   Each user’s wastewater treatment cost contribution will be assessed in
accordance with the attached rate schedule in §
51.32 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.25 PAYMENT.
   The town shall submit an annual statement to the user for the user’s annual
wastewater service charge or one-twelfth of the user’s annual wastewater
service charge may be included with the monthly water and/or wastewater utility
billing. The town shall add a penalty 1.5% per month if the payment is not
received by the town within 30 days. Should any user fail to pay the user
wastewater service charge and penalty within three months of the due date, the
town may stop the wastewater service to the property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 REVIEW.
   (A)   The town shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage not less
often than every two years, and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works.
   (B)   If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change that user’s wastewater contribution
percentage, the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
governing body, such factual information and the town shall then determine if
the user’s wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The town shall
notify the user of its findings as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.27 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified at least annually in conjunction with a regular
bill of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to
wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.28 WASTES TO WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The discharge of any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal systems, or to injure
or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an
adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works
is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the wastewater
treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional requirements, see §
51.05
§ 51.29 CLEAR WATER CONNECTIONS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers and sewer connections, and the methods to be used in excavating all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state.
   (B)   In the absence of code provision or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of A.S.T.M.
and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.31 SURCHARGE RATE SCHEDULE FOR ABOVE NORMAL STRENGTH WASTES.
   (A)   The town, or its Engineer, has determined that the average total
suspended solids (TSS) and five-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) daily
loadings for the average residential user are 200 ppm BOD and 250 ppm TSS. The
town, or its Engineer, has assessed a surcharge rate for all non-residential
users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths greater than the average
residential user.
   (B)   The surcharge will be sufficient to cover the costs of treating such
users’ above normal strength wastes. Such users will pay an additional service
charge of 2.9¢ per 1,000 gallons for each 25 ppm every 200 ppm of BOD and 1.5¢
per 1,000 gallons for each 25 ppm over 250 ppm of TSS.
(Prior Code, Appendix A)
§ 51.32 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   Residential users are considered to be one class of user and are
assessed a charge of $8 per month.
      (2)   Non-residential users with flows no greater than the average
residential user’s flow of 12,000 gallons per month and with BOD and TSS no
greater than the average residential user’s strength of 200 ppm BOD and 250 ppm
TSS will pay the same charge of $8 per month as the average residential user.
   (B)   Non-residential users with volumes greater than the average
residential user will pay an additional charge of $0.38 per 1,000 gallons per
month for all flows greater than the average residential user’s flow of 12,000
gallons per month.
   (C)   Any non-residential user with BOD and TSS greater than the average
residential user’s strength of 200 ppm BOD and 250 ppm TSS will pay a surcharge
in accordance with the rates shown in the surcharge rate schedule.
(Prior Code, Appendix B)
§ 51.33 WASTEWATER FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND SCHEDULE.
   The reserve fund called the Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund
established within the Wastewater Utility Fund as an interest bearing account
shall be funded by a deposit of $2,000 per year obtained from the Wastewater
Utility Fund at the end of each fiscal year.
(Prior Code, Appendix C)
§ 51.34 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Estimated annual operation and maintenance costs.
      (1)   Expenses:
Bond repayment (Sinking fund) = $5,000
Bond repayment (Sinking fund) = $5,000
Contingencies                 = $300
Energy (Irrigation system)    = $1,200
Labor                         Superintendent = $1,200
                              Other help = $600
Materials and equipment       = $300
Reserve for equipment         = $1,000
Testing                       = $400
Total annual cost             = $10,000
 
      (2)   Income:
 
100 units at $8 per month = $9,600
Interest on accounts      = $250
Part-time users           = $150
Total annual income       = $10,000
 
   (B)   Average domestic flow per residence.
 
Estimate 100 gallons per capita per day
4.0 Persons/Residence X 100 GPCD = 400 GPD = 1 unit = R
 
   (C)   Total number user equivalents.
 
Non-residential user 11 units
Residential user     81 units
School               8 units
TOTAL UNITS          100 units
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.07)
§ 51.35 SEWER HOOKUP PRICES.
   Sewer hookup prices are hereby established as set by resolutions from time
to time.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s)
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.01, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4.06)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Containers; limitations
   
52.03   Burning garbage; prohibited
   
52.04   Accumulations of garbage
   
52.05   Garbage and trash services; burn pit
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes except sewage and body wastes, including
vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of dead animals, but excluding
recognizable industrial byproducts and shall include all such substances from
public and private establishments and from all residences.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.010)
   REFUSE and TRASH. Shall include putrescible wastes.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.020)
§ 52.02 CONTAINERS; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No owner or tenant of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon his or her premises any garbage or refuse except in covered
containers approved by the Superintendent of the Sanitation Department.
   (B)   Such containers shall be provided by the disposal company and shall be
constructed in such manner as to be strong, not easily corrodible, rodent
proof; shall have tight covers, which shall be in place at all times except
when garbage or refuse is being deposited therein or removed therefrom.
   (C)   In the event that garbage and one or more types of refuse are disposed
of separately, separate containers must be had if required by the
Superintendent of the Sanitation Department.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.030) Penalty, §
10.99
§ 52.03 BURNING GARBAGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or refuse within the
town limits except waste paper, boxes, brush, grass, weeds, and cuttings from
trees, lawns, or gardens for which during the fire season, a permit must be had
from the Fire Chief or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE.
   The accumulation of garbage, refuse, and trash in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 GARBAGE AND TRASH SERVICES; BURN PIT.
   The town does not supply garbage and trash services; however, a burn pit for
residents of the town is available and shall be used for branches and weed
burnables only.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Regulations adopted
   
70.003   Pushcarts and bicycles
Unlawful Driving
   
70.015   Safety zones
   
70.016   Boarding or alighting
   
70.017   Unlawful riding
   
70.018   Railway trains
   
70.019   Intersections, crosswalks
Authority of Police
   
70.030   Directing traffic
   
70.031   Obedience
   
70.032   Public employees
   
70.033   Exceptions; emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.045   Signs and signals
   
70.046   Obedience
   
70.047   Unauthorized display
   
70.048   Interference
   
70.049   Safety zones, traffic lanes
   
70.050   Rules and regulations
   
70.051   Council; crosswalks
Pedestrians
   
70.065   Right-of-way
   
70.066   Crosswalks
   
70.067   Soliciting rides; prohibited
Nuisances
   
70.080   Lug wheels; prohibited
   
70.081   Mufflers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS.
      (1)   Those streets and avenues set out and designated by the Council as
ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS, wherein any person when driving or operating a vehicle upon
any crossover or intersecting street must first bring the vehicle which he or
she is driving to a complete stop immediately before entering upon or crossing
upon such street or avenue.
      (2)   Any intersecting street upon which the Council has caused, or
hereafter causes, the erection of a stop sign shall automatically be designated
as an ARTERIAL HIGHWAY.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as are designated by the Council.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included with the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, or any other portion
of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. All the portion of ___________ Street between and _______
and _______.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle whether or not one such street or
highway crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every vehicle as herein defined which is self-propelled, and
bicycles and other similar pedal-driven devices.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs, markings, and devices, other than
signals, not inconsistent with this code, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of guiding,
directing, warning, or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a roadway
otherwise than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs
or signals.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. Any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a street or highway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Every way set apart for public travel, except footpaths.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
and used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.010)
§ 70.002 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Council is hereby empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary to
make effective the provisions of this chapter and the County Sheriff Department
is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.020)
§ 70.003 PUSHCARTS AND BICYCLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal shall be subject to the provisions
of this traffic code applicable to the operator of any vehicle except those
provisions with reference to the equipment of vehicles, and except those
provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.060)
UNLAWFUL DRIVING
§ 70.015 SAFETY ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle at any time to drive the
same over or through a safety zone as defined in this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.016 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle
while such vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.017 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on any vehicle or upon any
portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers when the
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.018 RAILWAY TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any
railway train or car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
a manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a
period of longer than ten minutes, except that this provision shall not apply
to trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.019 INTERSECTIONS, CROSSWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to stop within an intersection or on a
crosswalk for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
AUTHORITY OF POLICE
§ 70.030 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the County Sheriff Department are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic, either in person or by means of visible or audible signals in
conformance with the provisions of this traffic code; provided, that in the
event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the County Sheriff or Fire Department may direct
traffic, as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
traffic code. It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff Department to enforce
the provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010)
§ 70.031 OBEDIENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of the County Sheriff Department.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.032 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the operator of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, the county, or the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any said operator to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter, except as otherwise permitted herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.033 EXCEPTIONS; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this subchapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as
defined herein while the drivers of such vehicles are operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. This exemption shall
not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a
reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.050)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.045 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, determine and designate the
character or type of all official traffic signs and signals.
   (B)   Subject to this selection, the County Sheriff Department is hereby
authorized, and as to those signs and signals required hereunder, it shall be
his or her duty to place and maintain or cause to be placed and maintained all
official traffic signs and signals. All signs and signals required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type
and location throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.010)
§ 70.046 OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   No provision of this code for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator, if at the time and place of the
alleged violation, the sign herein required is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are repaired,
such section shall be effective without signs being erected to give notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.020)
§ 70.047 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain or to display upon
or in view of any street any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct movement of traffic or which hides from view any
official traffic sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign, signal, or device
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the County Sheriff Department is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice,
and every person maintaining such prohibited sign, signal, or device shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.048 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, move, or
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign, signal, or barricade.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.049 SAFETY ZONES, TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Council is hereby empowered to establish safety zones of such kind
and character and at such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians and for the protection of any person riding upon sleds or toboggans
on any streets designated for such purpose and to place such signs and signals
as may be deemed necessary for such protection.
   (B)   The Council is also authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable, consistent with the
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.060)
§ 70.050 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   On any street intersections in the town where electrical traffic signals are
now installed, or may hereinafter be installed by order of the Council, traffic
along the streets meeting at such intersections shall be controlled and
governed at such intersections by the following rules.
   (A)   When the electrical signal facing any line of traffic shows red, the
leading car approaching such intersection shall come to a complete stop behind
the line marked for pedestrian crossing and before reaching such intersection,
and cars to the rear of such leading car shall stop in a line behind such
leading car, and all such cars shall remain at a complete stop until the
electric signal shall change from red to green.
   (B)   When the electric signal facing any line of traffic shows green,
stopped cars and those approaching the intersection in such line of traffic may
proceed across such intersection or turn onto the intersecting street providing
that, in turning onto such intersecting street, pedestrians crossing such
intersecting street on the green light shall have the right-of-way while they
remain within the lines of sidewalks projected.
   (C)   Pedestrians will be governed by the above rules and shall cross such
intersections, staying within the lines of the sidewalk projected on the green
light and remain on the sidewalk when the red light shows.
(Prior Code, § 10.18.010)
§ 70.051 COUNCIL; CROSSWALKS.
   The Council is hereby authorized to establish and designate, and thereafter
shall maintain or cause to be maintained by appropriate devices, marks, or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in
its opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and
at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.050)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.065 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within an
unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by police officers.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   Pedestrians shall cross all arterial highways at a street intersection
or connection by passing over such portion of the street being crossed as is
included within the lines of the sidewalk projected and not diagonally, that
is, what is commonly termed “jaywalking” on arterial highways is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.066 CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.020)
§ 70.067 SOLICITING RIDES; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the operator of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 70.080 LUG WHEELS; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for tractors or other vehicles with wheels injurious to
pavement to be permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of
such vehicle shall first plank such streets.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.260) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.081 MUFFLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall
not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise;
and it shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a
cut-out, by-pass, or similar muffler elimination appliance.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.290) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Stops prohibited
   
71.02   Delivery regulations
   
71.03   Bus stops, taxicab stands, and express vehicle stands
   
71.04   Prohibited parking
   
71.05   Curbs; standing and parking
   
71.06   Advertising
§ 71.01 STOPS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control sign or signal, or in designated parking place or
area:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 25 feet from the intersection or curb lines, or if none, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection, except
in alleys;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   In front of a private driveway;
   (G)   On a sidewalk;
   (H)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic; or
   (I)   In designated no-parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 DELIVERY REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any truck or trucks of over one-ton capacity,
whether loaded or unloaded, to travel along Main Street except where necessary
to make deliveries on Main Street, and then only from the nearest intersect to
the point of delivery and to the nearest intersection in the direction in which
said truck is traveling.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 BUS STOPS, TAXICAB STANDS, AND EXPRESS VEHICLE STANDS.
   The Council is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops,
taxicab stands, and express vehicle stands on such public streets in such
places and in such manner as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit
and convenience to the public, and every bus stop, taxicab stand, or express
vehicle stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030)
§ 71.04 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibited parking. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle, other than a bus, to stand or park in an officially designated bus
stop, or for any vehicle, other than an express truck or wagon, to stand or
park in an officially designated express vehicle stand, except that the
operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in any such stop or
stand for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, the loading or
unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040)
   (B)   Public vehicles prohibited from parking except in designated stands.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus, taxicab, or express vehicle
to stand or park upon any street in any business district at any place other
than a bus stop, taxicab stand, or express vehicle stand, respectively, except
that this provision shall not prevent the operator of any such vehicle from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other parking regulations, at any place
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in, the loading or unloading of
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.050)
Penalty, see §
10.99
   (C)   Prohibited parking in certain places.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle upon a street, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to park a vehicle with a
width greater than 84 inches, or a total length exceeding 18 feet, upon any
street in any business district of the town unless such driver shall hold a
special permit from the County Sheriff Department authorizing such parking.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.060)
   (D)   Parking vehicle for sale prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park upon a street any vehicle displayed for sale.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.080)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 CURBS; STANDING AND PARKING.
   (A)   Except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand, or park such
vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in
the direction of traffic and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12
inches of the edge of the roadway, except:
      (1)   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb indicated by such
marks or signs, and within the lines designated;
      (2)   In places where and at hours when stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads when the owner of such vehicle holds a permit granting such
special privilege;
      (3)   Provided, further, that such permit shall be either in the
possession of the operator or on the vehicle at the time such vehicle is backed
against the curb to take on or discharge a load; and
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator to violate any of
the special terms or conditions of such special permit.
   (B)   The Council shall determine on what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark and sign such streets or cause the same to be marked
or signed.
   (C)   The County Sheriff Department is hereby authorized to issue to any
owner of a vehicle used to transport merchandise or materials a special permit,
renewable annually, and to state therein the terms and conditions thereof
allowing the operator of such vehicle the privilege of loading and unloading
while the vehicle is backed against the curb or for standing such vehicle in
specified places and for specified purposes otherwise prohibited in this
chapter, if in the opinion of the County Sheriff Department such privilege is
reasonably necessary in the conduct of the owner’s business and will not
seriously interfere with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on any street any vehicle for
the primary purpose of displaying advertising.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Delivery restrictions
SCHEDULE I. DELIVERY RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to make deliveries of goods, wares, or merchandise to
places of business or places of residence at the following locations.
Deliveries made from the alley shall be allowed.
 
Street        Location
Fergus Avenue Between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
 
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   AERIAL TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Livestock
   
90.03   Swine
   
90.04   Dog kennel license
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals
   
90.06   Animals creating nuisance
   
90.07   Investigation
   
90.08   Law enforcement; interference
Dogs
   
90.20   Limit per household
   
90.21   Running at large
   
90.22   Vicious and ferocious dogs
   
90.23   Destruction of unlicensed dogs
   
90.24   Vaccination by order of Mayor
Impounding Animals
   
90.35   Seizure and impounding
   
90.36   Notice; redemption
   
90.37   Disposition; unredeemed animals
   
90.38   Alternative to death of animal; removal
   
90.39   Interference
Rabies Prevention
   
90.50   Animals exposed to rabies; quarantine
   
90.51   Vaccination
   
90.52   Untagged dogs
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of the owner or any other person either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   IMPOUND. To sequester an animal at a place provided by the town for the
impounding of dogs or other animals.
   KENNEL. Any premises or property of any kind or description where more than
two female dogs are kept for breeding purposes, or where more than one litter
of pups or dogs are kept for purposes of sale.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. For the purpose of dealing with animals, any police
officer, pound master, or dog warden.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog or other animal.
   RESTRAINT. Controlled by a leash not longer than six feet in length, at
“heel” beside a competent person and obedient to that person’s commands within
a vehicle with permission of the owner, or within the property limits of
premises controlled by the owner or other persons consenting thereto.
   VACCINATE. The inoculation of a dog or other animal with an anti-rabies
vaccine by any licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010)
§ 90.02 LIVESTOCK.
   No person shall keep any of the following classes of domestic animals in the
town: Horses; mules; asses; cattle; sheep; goats; rabbits; chickens; ducks;
and/or turkeys.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SWINE.
   (A)   No person shall keep swine in town.
   (B)   Swine may not be brought within the town limits except for marketing
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOG KENNEL LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person maintaining a KENNEL, as defined in §
90.01, shall pay a license fee of $25 per year for maintaining such kennel.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until the premises to be used for the
kennel have been inspected and approved by the town’s Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050)
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if, without
justification, he or she knowingly or negligently subjects an animal to
mistreatment or neglect by:
   (A)   Overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;
   (B)   Carrying any animal in a cruel manner;
   (C)   Failing to provide an animal in his or her custody with proper food,
drink, or shelter;
   (D)   Abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure, or become a public charge; and/or
   (E)   Promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or participating in a horse race of
more than two miles.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.060) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Prevention of cruelty to animals by municipality, see M.C.A. § 7-23-4104
§ 90.06 ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is declared a public nuisance for a dog or other animal to destroy
property or other pets; to bite or chase after persons not trespassing on the
property of the animal’s owner; or to cause annoyance or disturbance to any
person by prolonged howling, yelping, or barking.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner of an animal to willfully, or through
neglect, permit such animal to cause any nuisance specified in this section.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may file a complaint in the
Town Court, charging the owner with the violation of this section.
   (D)   Upon a third conviction under this section, the nuisance animal may be
seized and taken up by any law enforcement officer and turned over to the
authority of the County Humane Society.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.070) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment of animal, see § 90.45
§ 90.07 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section, the
County Sheriff or any law enforcement officer is empowered to demand from the
occupants of any premises, upon or in which a dog or other animal is kept or
harbored, the exhibition of such dog or other animal and the license or tag for
the animal.
   (B)   Whenever complaint has been made that an animal is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner, the law enforcement officer may examine
such animal and take possession of the same when, in his or her opinion, it
requires humane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.080)
§ 90.08 LAW ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or detain the County
Sheriff or other law enforcement officer in the performance of any duty or
power imposed on such officer by this section, or to release or attempt to
release any animal in the custody of any town official.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 LIMIT PER HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   No house in the town limits shall own or harbor more than two dogs per
household.
   (B)   The only exception is for the raising of a litter of pups. When said
litter reaches the age of six months, the household must reduce the number of
dogs in the household to only two dogs in total.
(Ord. 12-10-98, passed 3- -1999) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or allow to stay
upon the premises occupied by him or her within the town any dog that is
running at large upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or public grounds of
the town.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this section shall not apply to a dog which
is being led by a leash or other suitable means of control. Such means may
include effective, direct voice control.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.010) (Ord. passed 2-11-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large and to impound
and sell same, see M.C.A. § 7-23-4101
§ 90.22 VICIOUS AND FEROCIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, feed, harbor, or
allow to stay upon the premises occupied by him or her within the town, any
vicious, unruly, or ferocious dog or any dog which by loud and frequent
barking, howling, or yelping, or by any other manner or way, causes any
annoyance or disturbance to any person in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.020)
   (B)   Whenever any person shall be convicted of owning, keeping, feeding,
harboring, or allowing to stay upon his or her premises in the town any vicious
or ferocious dog which has bitten any person in said town and where the person
was not at the said time trespassing or injuring the person or property of the
owner or the one in possession, and such person fails to destroy said dog
within 24 hours after receipt of such order, it shall be the duty of the County
Sheriff Department to destroy such dog forthwith or turned over to the
authority of the County Humane Society.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.080)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 DESTRUCTION OF UNLICENSED DOGS.
   The owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog found within the town unlicensed
shall be notified by the County Sheriff Department as provided in those codes
or such person or persons as the Council may from time to time appoint, that,
if said dog is not licensed as hereinbefore provided within 24 hours from the
date of the notification, said dog will be turned over to the authority of the
County Humane Society.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.060)
Cross-reference:
   Alternative to death of animal; removal., see §
90.38
§ 90.24 VACCINATION BY ORDER OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and it is hereby made his or her duty,
whenever in his or her opinion the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs
is made imminent, to issue his or her proclamation ordering persons owning,
keeping, or harboring dogs, to have the same vaccinated within 30 days, and/or
have such dog properly and securely muzzled during the time specified.
   (B)   Any dog found without being properly vaccinated and/or securely
muzzled may be destroyed by any designated person or officer or turned over to
the authority of the County Humane Society.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.100)
IMPOUNDING ANIMALS
§ 90.35 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Dogs or other animals found at large and not under restraint shall be
taken up by the County Sheriff Department, or any law enforcement officer, and
impounded.
   (B)   The County Sheriff Department shall make a complete register of every
dog or other animal impounded, showing the time and place of taking, the breed,
color, sex, and distinguishing marks of such dog or other animal and, if
licensed outside of the town, the number of the license and the name and
address of the owner.
   (C)   Licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed dogs and males shall
be separated from females.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
§ 90.36 NOTICE; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared the duty of every owner of any dog or other
animal to know its whereabouts at all times.
   (B)   In the event that any dog or other animal is impounded, the owner
shall redeem the same within 96 hours without any formal notice, or it shall be
subject to disposal by the County Sheriff Department as hereinafter provided.
Cross-reference:
   Dogs running at large, see § 90.28
   (C)   (1)   The owner of any impounded dog or other animal may redeem the
same within such period of time by paying an impounding fee of $2, plus all
other expenses of transportation and care as provided for in current contracts
with impoundment officials.
      (2)   A copy of the current contract will be on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The County Sheriff Department may issue a ticket to the person
redeeming any dog or other animal impounded for violation of any provision of
this section and file a complaint in Town Court.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 DISPOSITION; UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an impounded dog or other animal is not redeemed within 96 hours
from the time it is taken and impounded, the owner thereof forfeits all right,
title, and interest therein and the County Sheriff Department shall offer the
same for sale at public auction.
   (B)   Such public auction sales shall be held at the pound at a certain time
at least five days per week, and notice of the days and times of such public
auction sales shall be prominently posted at the pound. No sale of any dog or
other animal shall be made at such public auction sale for a price of less than
$5.
   (C)   The County Sheriff Department shall issue a certificate of sale to the
purchaser at any public auction sale and such certificate of sale shall confer
title and ownership to the dog or other animal, free of all claims and interest
of the previous owner.
   (D)   In the event that any impounded dog or other animal is not redeemed by
the owner or purchased upon its being offered at such public auction sale, it
shall be turned over to the authority of the County Human Society.
   (E)   Any dog or other animal suffering from any infectious disease shall
not be released, but must be put to death.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030)
§ 90.38 ALTERNATIVE TO DEATH OF ANIMAL; REMOVAL.
   Owners of animals, other than those infected with rabies, who have violated
this code to the extent that the animal has become such a threat or nuisance
that the animal may no longer be permitted within the town, shall have his or
her animal turned over to the County Humane Society.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040)
§ 90.39 INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to hinder, detain, or interfere with the
County Sheriff Department in the performance of any duty or power imposed on
him or her by this subchapter, or to release or to attempt to release any
animal in the custody of the County Sheriff Department, except as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) Penalty, see §
90.99
RABIES PREVENTION
§ 90.50 ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   Every dog or other animal which has been bitten by or exposed to
an animal suspected to have been infected with rabies shall be forthwith seized
and taken up by the County Sheriff or any law enforcement officer and securely
and separately impounded in the Town Animal Shelter or turned over to the
authority of the County Humane Society.
      (2)   Such animal shall be quarantined in the pound or at a licensed
veterinarian hospital for a period of 14 days.
         (a)   If, after observation for such period, any such animal is
adjudged free of rabies, the owner may reclaim the animal upon the payment of
the regular keeping fees.
         (b)   In the event that any animal under quarantine or other
confinement is diagnosed as being rabid, it shall be disposed of only under the
orders and directions of the County Sheriff in his or her absolute discretion.
   (B)   No person shall delay or obstruct any town officer in the enforcement
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.51 VACCINATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Council, acting through its proper officer, shall
deem it necessary to take extra measures to prevent the spread of the disease
known as “rabies,” the Council shall designate a licensed veterinarian or
veterinarians to vaccinate all dogs in the town with the proper vaccine.
      (2)   The cost of the vaccination shall be paid by the owner of the dog
at the time of vaccination.
      (3)   (a)   Upon vaccination of such dog or dogs, the veterinarian shall
issue to the owner or owners his or her certificate showing the inoculation
thereof.
         (b)   He or she shall keep a duplicate of such certificate and file
the same in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   A metallic tag may be attached to a collar on the dog showing the
vaccination and the date thereof.
   (B)   Whenever the town shall require the vaccination of dogs, no person
shall obstruct or prevent an officer of the town from carrying out the duties
required by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate the control of infectious or contagious
diseases and prevent the spread of such diseases, see M.C.A. § 7-34-4101
§ 90.52 UNTAGGED DOGS.
   Any dog running at large may be surrendered to the County Humane Society
after a reasonable effort has been made to capture the animal and the owner of
the dog is unknown.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.030)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §§
90.01 through
90.08 shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.100)
   (C)   (1)   A person convicted of the offense of cruelty to animals, per §
90.05, shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the town or county
jail for a term not to exceed six months, or both. If such person is the owner,
he or she may be required to forfeit to the town any animal affected. This
provision does not affect the interest of any secured party or other person who
has not participated in the offense.
      (2)   In addition to the sentence provided in division (C)(1) above, the
court may require the defendant to pay all reasonable costs incurred in
providing necessary veterinary attention and treatment for any animal affected.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.060)
   (D)   Any person violating a provision of §§
90.50 through
90.52 shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.040)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 45-8-211
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Window sills to be kept cleared
Refuse, Standing Water
   
91.15   Keeping junk
   
91.16   Refuse and stagnant water
   
91.17   Water flowing upon streets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 WINDOW SILLS TO BE KEPT CLEARED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any window sill,
porch, or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on
any sidewalk any article which might lead to injury in falling on any person on
the sidewalk in front of such building, unless the same is securely fastened or
protected by screens.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.420) Penalty, see §
10.99
REFUSE, STANDING WATER
§ 91.15 KEEPING JUNK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classed as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to any
school house, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings, or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
same and obtaining the proper licenses as required by this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.240) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 REFUSE AND STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to be in or
accumulate in, or upon any yard, lot, place, or premise, or upon any street or
sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place, or premises, or in
any building or shed owned or occupied by him or her or for which he or she may
be agent within the limits of the town, any stagnant water or impure water,
refuse, vegetable decay or decaying substance, garbage, or filth of any kind;
or suffer such yard, lot, place, building, or premises to be or to remain in
such condition as to cause or create a nuisance, offensive smell, or to pollute
or render unhealthful the atmosphere of the premises or thereby to be, become,
cause, or create a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.410) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Notice of violation
   
92.02   Police power
   
92.03   Exceptions
Nuisances
   
92.15   Abandoned vehicles
   
92.16   Loud speakers, sound trucks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the County Sheriff receives knowledge of the existence of any
condition or conditions to be nuisances, he or she shall ascertain the owner or
owners of the premises and require that the owner or owners remedy the
violation within 30 days of the date they receive notice thereof.
   (B)   Such notice shall be in writing and be delivered either personally or
mailed to the last known address of such owner or owners.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010)
§ 92.02 POLICE POWER.
   If the conditions are not corrected within such 30-day period, the County
Sheriff on behalf of the town is authorized to and may institute appropriate
proceedings in the district courts of the state for the abatement of a nuisance
and to recover the costs thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.020)
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as limiting or
abrogating the powers and duties of other officers of the town to remedy
conditions declared to be nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.030)
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONED. Left unoccupied or unclaimed or in a damaged or dismantled
condition upon the streets or alleys of the town.
      COSTS. The expense of removing, storing, or selling an impounded vehicle.
      COUNTY SHERIFF. Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the
town, as supplied by the County Sheriff Department.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Trailers, semi-trailers, automobiles, auto trucks,
motorcycles, cycle motors, and all other vehicles propelled by their own power,
used upon the public highways of the state, excepting steam or gas tractors.
      OWNER. Any individual, firm, corporation, or unincorporated association
with a claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership of any interest,
legal or equitable, in a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.010)
   (B)   Duty of County Sheriff Department. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff Department, whenever a
motor vehicle is found abandoned upon the streets, alleys, public property, or
private property in the same position for a period of five days to take said
motor vehicle into custody.
      (2)   Within 72 hours thereafter, they shall notify the County Sheriff
stating the time it was taken into custody, the place where the vehicle is
being held, furnishing the Sheriff a complete description of the vehicle, to
include year, make, model, serial number, and license number, if available,
together with any costs incurred to that date in the removal, preservation, and
custody of the vehicle together with any other available information concerning
its ownership.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.020)
§ 92.16 LOUD SPEAKERS, SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, use, or operate any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker, or amplifier, or any instrument of any kind or character
which emits loud and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle
unless such person in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and
received permission from the County Sheriff Department to operate any such
vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.250) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Rules and regulations
   
93.03   Temporary, permanent vehicles
   
93.04   Permits, extensions
   
93.05   Temporary recreational vehicle occupancy
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit designed primarily as a temporary
living quarter for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use, and that
either has its own power or is mounted on, or towed by, another vehicle which
include, but are not limited to, camping trailer, fifth-wheel trailer, motor
home, park trailer, travel trailer, and truck camper.
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022)
§ 93.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place, keep, or maintain a vehicle, camper, or trailer
on any street, alley, or lot as a residence or temporary living accommodation
within the corporate limits of the town for more than 30 days, except in a
licensed trailer court or as otherwise stated herein below.
   (B)   Unoccupied vehicles in long-term or temporary storage are not affected
by this chapter if they are operable, licensed, parked, or stored on private
property. A recreational vehicle used in the occupants employment with a
private company or occupied during construction, including remodeling or
reconstruction of a residence, shall obtain a temporary occupancy permit from
the town.
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 TEMPORARY, PERMANENT VEHICLES.
   Camper hookup in town will be under the following standards.
   (A)   Temporary (30 days or less).
      (1)   Use containment tanks only.
      (2)   Connect to a hydrant with a garden hose for water.
      (3)   Backflow valves will be in place if hooked up to a hydrant.
      (4)   If connecting to the town sewer system, all connections must be
secure and enclosed, as defined in division (B) below.
   (B)   Permanent (seven months or more).
      (1)   Use containment tanks with no chemicals, gray and black tanks will
be dumped when full only, then valves will be closed until next fill.
      (2)   Direct plumbing to sewer and water system of the town.
      (3)   All connections must be plumbed direct and secure from movement.
      (4)    Water will be on a direct water line and able to include a meter,
if not already on a metered water line.
      (5)   All water and sewer connections must be winterized for year-round
protection.
      (6)   After setup, a person has 30 days to comply to permanent status.
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022)
§ 93.04 PERMITS, EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Permits. For temporary recreational vehicle occupancy must be filed in
writing with the Clerk- Treasurer for Council review and insurance.
   (B)   Extensions.
      (1)   May be obtained on written request prior to expiration of the
current permit.
      (2)   The written request must contain a statement explaining the need
for the extension. Extensions shall be approved by and granted by the Mayor and
Council.
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022)
§ 93.05 TEMPORARY RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OCCUPANCY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1e5548259707dd3fd81ea34b6f7f9d190c151c5d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-644.png]
 
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be a civil matter enforced in
accordance with the provisions of M.C.A. § 7-1-4150. A civil penalty of $50 may
be imposed for the initial violation.
   (B)   The penalty for the second offense within a 30-day period shall be
$100, and the penalty for subsequent offenses within a 30-day period shall be
$200.
   (C)   A civil penalty shall not exceed $500 for each repeat violation.
   (D)   The citation may be served by personal service, by certified mail
addressed to the defendant at the defendant’s known mailing address, return
receipt requested, or by publication. The citation must serve as notification
that a municipal infraction has been committed and must contain the information
contained in M.C.A. § 7-1-4150(4).
(Ord. 2022.07.02, passed 9-4-2022)
CHAPTER 94: AERIAL TRAFFIC
Section
   
94.01   Aerial navigation height
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Acrobatic flying; prohibited
   
94.04   Airplane sirens; prohibited
§ 94.01 AERIAL NAVIGATION HEIGHT.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall navigate, drive, propel, or fly any
airplane or aircraft of any kind, nature, or description over the town at a
height of less than 1,000 feet above the ground.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACROBATIC FLYING. Intentional maneuvers not necessary to air navigation.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.020)
§ 94.03 ACROBATIC FLYING; PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall navigate, drive, propel, or fly any
airplane or aircraft of any kind, nature, or description acrobatically over the
town.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 AIRPLANE SIRENS; PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall, while navigating, driving,
propelling, or flying any airplane or aircraft of any kind, nature, or
description over the town sound sirens or horns therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Beer and liquor sales to minors
§ 110.01 BEER AND LIQUOR SALES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to procure, sell, or give away any beer
or liquor to any person under the age of 21 years; or for any person under the
age of 21 years to purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise procure or
consume or have in his or her possession any beer or liquor.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO
Section
   
111.01   Cigarettes and tobacco sales to minors
§ 111.01 CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO SALES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of 18 years any cigarettes, tobacco, or
any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a cigarette; or to
give minors any cigarette papers.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.360) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS OR PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   General offenses
   
130.02   Unlawful conduct
   
130.03   False pretenses
   
130.04   Petit larceny
   
130.05   Fraudulently avoiding payment of admission fees
   
130.06   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
130.07   Abandoned containers
   
130.08   Playing ball on streets; prohibited
   
130.09   Cruelty to animals
Offenses Against Public Officers
   
130.20   Aid to an offense
   
130.21   Resisting an officer
   
130.22   Assistance to police officers
   
130.23   False representation
   
130.24   Escapes
Minors
   
130.35   Encouraging delinquency
   
130.36   Minors in pool halls
   
130.37   Curfew for minors
Cross-reference:
Beer and liquor sales to minors, see §
110.01
Cigarettes and tobacco sales to minors, see §
111.01
Cruelty to animals, see §
90.06
Enforcement of provisions; County Sheriff Department, see §
34.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 GENERAL OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirements which are prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such
laws are applicable to town government.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.200) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit alms as a business; or to
sleep in any barn, shed, out building, or other place other than such as is
kept for lodging purposes, without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession thereof; or to live in a house of ill fame, or to
live with or upon the earnings of a prostitute; or for any person to practice
prostitution, or to conduct oneself in an immodest, drunken, profane, or
obscene manner, either by action, language, or improper exposure of one’s
person in or about any public place or assembly or in any saloon, bar room,
club room, or any other public or general place of resort within the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.400) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any lodging, sleeping
accommodations, food, drink, goods, wares, or merchandise under false
pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for lodging, refreshments, or
food or other articles and receive the same and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for same or satisfying the person from whom he or she
received the lodging, food, refreshments, goods, wares, and merchandise, and
the act of departing without paying for the same shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to violate this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.150) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PETIT LARCENY. Any offense that constitutes petit larceny under the laws
of the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit petit larceny.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter without payment of
the proper admission fee any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers in the performance of their duties, to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.170) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence
or any fence constructed in hole or in part of barbed wire, or to use barbed
wire as a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 ABANDONED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any occupied or abandoned
building, structure, or dwelling under his or her control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended, or discarded ice box,
refrigerator, or other container which has a door or lid, SnapLock, or other
locking device which may not be released from the inside, without first
removing said door or lid, SnapLock, or other locking device.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and
fro upon any public thoroughfare in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or cruelly beat, starve, or
otherwise ill-treat any animal in his or her care or charge, whether belonging
to himself or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see §
90.06
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS
§ 130.20 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any way or manner, aid, abet,
counsel, advise, or encourage any other person in the commission of such
offense hereby defined in this title.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interfere with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest, or threaten to molest any officer of the town in the
exercise of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.340) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse
to render assistance to any police officer when called upon for such
assistance, to aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful assemblage, or
in the arrest of any person.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself or herself
to be an officer of the town or to attempt to impersonate any such officer or,
without authority, to perform any act therein on behalf of an officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.160) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 ESCAPES.
   (A)   Escapes. It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense,
or in lawful custody, to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.130)
   (B)   Aid in escape. It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist
any person to escape from lawful confinement, or to aid or assist any person to
escape from the custody of any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010)
Penalty, see §
10.99
MINORS
§ 130.35 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by any act or neglect to encourage, aid,
or cause a child to come within the purview of juvenile authorities; and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any person after notice that a driver’s license
of any child has been suspended or revoked to allow such child to operate a
motor vehicle during such suspension.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.36 MINORS IN POOL HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any minor under 18 years to
frequent or loiter in a pool or billiard hall; provided, however, that the same
shall not be illegal in places of business that are duly licensed by the state
as restaurants.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.280) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.37 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having
custody of a minor under the age of 12 years to permit such minor to be upon
any public thoroughfare or in any public place or other place without
acceptable supervision between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following mornings: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday; and
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following mornings: Friday
and Saturday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having
custody of a minor over the age of 12 years, but under the age of 18 years, to
permit or allow such minor to be upon any public thoroughfare or any public
place or other place without acceptable supervision between the hours of 10:30
p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following mornings: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday, and from 12:30 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. on Friday and
Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010)
   (B)   Exception. This shall not apply to any minor who shall be accompanied
by a parent, guardian, or adult acting with the authority of the parent or any
minor upon an errand for the same; provided, however, said minor, when upon an
errand, must have the written permission of the parent, guardian, or person
having control of said minor.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020)
   (C)   Parent or guardian liable. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff Department to apprehend
and take into custody any minor found in violation of this curfew. The County
Sheriff Department shall thereupon notify said parent or guardian and such
parent or guardian shall be immediately summoned.
      (2)   For the first violation of this curfew, the minor shall be released
to the custody of such parent or guardian upon written promise that such parent
or guardian will assume the responsibility that said child will comply with the
provisions of this section. The County Sheriff Department shall make written
report and keep a record of such violation.
      (3)   In the event the said parent or guardian cannot be located, said
minor shall be remanded to the custody of the County Juvenile Authorities.
      (4)   Thereafter, any minor in apparent violation of this curfew shall be
taken into custody, and the parent or guardian, or other person with the
custody of said minor, shall be guilty of a violation of this code and be
punishable hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.030)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Obscene conduct
   
131.02   Gambling
   
131.03   Prostitution
   
131.04   Indecent exposure
   
131.05   Swindling
   
131.06   Obscene literature
§ 131.01 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view; or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious, or obscene conduct;
or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad, or other words in any public place
or any other place where persons are present; or indecently exhibit any animal.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.300) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play, or conduct, either as
owner, employee, or lessee, whether for hire or not, any game played with
cards, dice, or any other device for money, checks, credit, or other
representative of value.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.190) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Prostitution. It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or
advertise in any manner one’s vocation as a prostitute, or for any person to
solicit or procure for a prostitute or procure a prostitute for another person.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.330)
   (B)   House of prostitution. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
assist in the keeping of a house of ill-fame or prostitution, or to knowingly
rent, lease, or permit any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased, or
controlled by him or her for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.220)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place or in any such place to
make indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof, or the
private parts of another, or to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or
lascivious manner.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.230) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 SWINDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by color, or aid of any trick or
sleight of hand performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice,
or device to win for himself, herself, or for another any money, property, or a
representative of either.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.370) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, sell, give, or deliver
to another any obscene, lewd, or indecent book, pamphlet, card, print, paper,
writing, mold, cast, or figure; or to have same in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Disruption of Peace
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Riots
   
132.03   Unlawful assembly
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
Firearms and Weapons
   
132.15   Concealed weapons
   
132.16   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
   
132.17   Air guns and firearms
Fireworks and Explosives
   
132.30   Setting of fireworks
   
132.31   Selling fireworks
DISRUPTION OF PEACE
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully, maliciously, intentionally,
or unnecessarily to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any
neighborhood, family, religious congregation, or other assembly by loud or
unusual noises, indecent behavior, or by offensive or unbecoming conduct; or
for any person to threaten, quarrel, fight, or provoke an assault or battery;
or curse, swear, or utter any obscene, vulgar, or indecent language in the
presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 RIOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to immediately
disperse upon an order to do so by a police officer when two or more persons
are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.350) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act, and to not disperse upon the command of an officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.390) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion; to use insulting, indecent, or immoral language; or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting, or immoral conduct or behavior.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
§ 132.15 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed weapons upon his or
her person such as brass knuckles, revolver, pistol, dagger, stiletto, or other
deadly weapons.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.16 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish, take
into jail, or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined
or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors,
drugs, or other articles without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.17 AIR GUNS AND FIREARMS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARMS. Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell, or
bullets, or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within
it, or by the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs
and including what are commonly known as “air rifles” and “B-B guns.”
(Prior Code, § 9.06.010)
   (B)   Discharge of firearms prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge FIREARMS of any kind or description within the limits of the town;
provided, however, that this shall not apply to police in the discharge of
their duties.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.020)
   (C)   Exceptions; permits. The Council may, upon application, grant permits
to shooting galleries, gun clubs, and others for shooting within the town
limits in fixed localities and under fixed rules. Such permits shall be in
writing attested by the Clerk-Treasurer conforming to such requirements as the
Council may demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation
at any time by action.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 132.30 SETTING OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set off or explode fireworks within
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.31 SELLING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fireworks within the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS OR PROPERTY
Section
Persons
   
133.01   Assault or battery
Property
   
133.15   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
133.16   Expectorating on sidewalks or in public buildings
   
133.17   Criminal mischief
   
133.18   Criminal trespass
 
   
133.99   Penalty
PERSONS
§ 133.01 ASSAULT OR BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit assault or battery.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.030) Penalty, see §
133.99
PROPERTY
§ 133.15 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or allow to remain in
or upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person
or property.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.080) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALKS OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any
sidewalks, or upon the floor of any theater, public buildings, church, or room
used for public assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.140) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.17 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   A person commits the offense of criminal mischief if he or she knowingly or
purposely:
   (A)   Injures, damages, or destroys any property of another or public
property without consent; or
   (B)   Without consent, tampers with property of another or public property
so as to endanger or interfere with persons or property or its use.
(Ord. 8-15, passed 1-3-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.18 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to property if he or she
knowingly or purposely:
   (A)   Enters or remains unlawfully in an occupied structure; or
   (B)   Enters or remains unlawfully in or upon the premises of another or
public property without consent.
(Ord. 8-15, passed 1-4-1980) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person convicted of the offense of criminal mischief shall be fined
not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for any term not to
exceed six months, or both. Authorized town and county officials are hereby
directed to enforce all of the provisions of §
133.17 as provided herein and in accordance with the provisions of M.C.A. § 45-
6-101.
   (C)   A person convicted of the offense of criminal trespass to property
shall be fined not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for any
term not to exceed six months, or both. Authorized town
and county officials are hereby directed to enforce all of the provisions of §
133.18 as provided herein and in accordance with the provisions of M.C.A. §§
45-6-201 and 45-6-203.
(Ord. 8-15, passed 1-3-1980; Ord. 8-15, passed 1-4-1980)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction, Maintenance of Sidewalks
   
150.01   Petition
   
150.02   Ordering construction
   
150.03   Notice
   
150.04   Town Council; construction
   
150.05   Construction of sidewalks
   
150.06   Established grade
   
150.07   Specifications
   
150.08   Materials
   
150.09   Area wall
   
150.10   Residence districts
   
150.11   Crosswalks
   
150.12   Repair
   
150.13   Removal of snow and ice
Obstructing Streets, Public Ways
   
150.25   Obstructions
   
150.26   Notice of violation
   
150.27   Removal
   
150.28   Town Council; permissions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Parking regulations, see
Ch. 71
Refuse and stagnant water, see §
91.16
Town Council, see
Ch. 30
Traffic regulations, see
Ch. 70
Water flowing upon streets, see §
91.17
CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS
§ 150.01 PETITION.
   (A)   Petition for construction. Whenever the owners of the majority of the
linear foot frontage of lots or parcels of land in any block in the town
petition for the construction of a sidewalk or curb, or both, along such
frontage, the Council shall order the said sidewalk or curb, or both, to be
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.070)
   (B)   Signers of petition. The owner or owners of any such lots or parcels
of land may have such petition signed by an agent, attorney, or other person if
such person shall have first been duly authorized and empowered so to do by a
regular and duly executed power of attorney, which said power of attorney must
be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.080)
§ 150.02 ORDERING CONSTRUCTION.
   The Council may of its own motion or upon the petition of the owners of less
than a majority of the lineal foot frontage of lots or parcels of land in any
block in the town abutting upon any street or avenue in said town at any
regular or special meeting of the Council, direct any sidewalk, curb, or both,
constructed, built, rebuilt, or repaired, as the case may be, along either or
both sides of any street or avenue in the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.090)
§ 150.03 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon the Council ordering and directing the construction, building, or
rebuilding of any sidewalk or curb, or both, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately cause notice thereof to be given to the owner or agent of the
property in front of or abutting upon which such sidewalk or curb, or both, is
to be constructed, built, or rebuilt, which said notice shall be in writing and
shall contain a description of said sidewalk or curb, or both, together with
the termini, course, width, and character thereof, and the time within which
the same is to be constructed, built, or rebuilt, remaining unconstructed at
the expiration of said period of not less than 30 days from the date of the
service of said notice, as herein provided for, and further notifying said
owner or agent of said property that all such sidewalks or curbs, or both, so
ordered constructed, built, or rebuilt remaining unconstructed at the
expiration of said period of not less than 30 days from the date of service of
said notice as specified in such notice shall and will be constructed, built,
or rebuilt by the town, at the expense of the property owner, as hereinafter
provided for.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served by the Clerk-Treasurer, or by such other
officer as the Council may direct, by mailing a copy thereof to said owner, or
to his or her agent, at his or her last known post office address.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.120)
§ 150.04 TOWN COUNCIL; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   If the owner or agent of such lot or parcel of land in front of or
abutting upon which said sidewalk or curbs, or both, have been ordered
constructed, built, or rebuilt shall fail or neglect for a period of not less
than 30 days after the date of mailing such notice as specified in such notice
to cause such sidewalk or curb, or both, to be constructed, built, or rebuilt,
the Council may construct, build, or rebuild, or cause such sidewalk or curb,
or both, to be constructed, built, or rebuilt, and the expense thereof,
including any costs for service of notices, cost of preparation of assessment
rolls, shall be charged against the property in front of or abutting upon which
the said improvements are made, and the said cost shall be certified by the
Clerk-Treasurer who shall transmit a copy thereof to the owner of the property
in front of or abutting upon which said sidewalk or curb, or both, was
constructed, built, or rebuilt, or to his, her, or their agent, if any such
there be by delivering a copy thereof to such owner or agent personally or by
mailing a copy to his or her last known post office address.
   (B)   (1)   Said total cost of construction must be paid within one month
from the time of service of said notice.
      (2)   If not paid within said time, the same shall become a lien and tax
against the property in front of and abutting upon which said sidewalk or curb,
or both, was constructed, built, or rebuilt and shall bear interest at the
prevailing statutory rate which said lien may be enforced against said owner,
and his or her said property, in the manner provided by law, or, in the event
that same is not paid, the amount thereof shall be levied and assessed as a
special tax against the property in front of which said sidewalk or curb, or
both, was constructed, built, or rebuilt in the manner provided by law and said
special tax enforced and collected in the same manner that other taxes against
said property for municipal purposes are enforced and collected.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.130)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   The owner or owners of property abutting upon any street or avenue in the
town shall pay for the construction, building, rebuilding, and repairing of all
sidewalks and curbs hereafter built or constructed in front of or abutting upon
his, her, or their respective pieces of property.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.010)
§ 150.06 ESTABLISHED GRADE.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed, built, or rebuilt shall be built and
laid on the established grade of the street.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.020)
§ 150.07 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The width of the sidewalk on all business streets and avenues on each side
thereof inclusive of the curb, shall be four feet wide, except on Main Street
where the same shall be eight feet wide except by special permission of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.030)
§ 150.08 MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed, built, or rebuilt on any of the streets
or avenues of the town which have been or shall hereafter be improved by paving
with brick, macadam, bitulithic, or other paving material known as permanent
paving material, and having curbing constructed of concrete, graphite, or
stone, or in which a lighting district shall have been created or shall
hereafter be created, shall be constructed, built, or rebuilt of cement, stone,
brick or some other hard and equally durable substance in the manner and
according to the specifications from time to time adopted by the Council
therefor on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.110)
§ 150.09 AREA WALL.
   Whenever any area wall shall be built approaching nearer than two feet to
the inside side of the curbing, such area wall shall be not less than two feet
wide at the bottom and 18 inches wide at the top, and shall be built of
concrete, granite, or local building stone according to the specifications from
time to time adopted by the Council therefor and on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.040)
§ 150.10 RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Sidewalk width. The width of the sidewalk on all residence streets and
avenues on each side thereof, exclusive of the curb and park strips, shall be
six feet wide except by special permission of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.050)
   (B)   Sidewalk specifications. 
      (1)   All sidewalks hereafter built on residence streets or avenues shall
be built of cement, stone, brick, or some other hard and equally durable
substance according to the specifications from time to time adopted by the
Council and on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Whenever 50 lineal feet or more of the sidewalk fronting upon any
street or avenue in the town shall require renewing, the Council may order and
direct the sidewalk or sidewalks so requiring renewing to be built and
constructed of the same hard and durable substance.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.060)
§ 150.11 CROSSWALKS.
   All crosswalks over and across all streets, avenues, and alleys in the town
shall not be less than five feet wide, and shall be built and laid upon the
established grade and constructed of either concrete, brick, stone, or some
other hard and equally durable substance, as the case may require, according to
the specifications from time to time adopted by the Council therefor on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.100)
§ 150.12 REPAIR.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk in the town shall be, or hereafter from any
cause whatsoever shall become unfit or unsafe for public travel or dangerous to
public safety, it shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to require the owner
or owners of the property abutting upon any such sidewalk to immediately
rebuild or repair the same, as the case may require, giving to such owner or
his or her agent, if one there be, three days notice thereof in writing, or in
case the said owner or agent cannot be found in said town so that said notice
may be served upon him or her, then said notice shall be posted upon said
premises.
   (B)   Upon failure of said owner or his or her agent to comply with the
requirements of said notice within the time limit thereof, it shall be the duty
of the Clerk-Treasurer to immediately, after the expiration of said three days,
rebuild or repair, as the case may require, the said sidewalk.
   (C)   In case the public safety demands the immediate repairing of any
sidewalk in the town, the Clerk-Treasurer shall make such repairs as may be
necessary to make said sidewalk safe without waiting for the expiration of the
time limited therefor in said notice, and the expense of rebuilding or
repairing the same, as the case may be, together with any costs for serving
said notices and costs for engineering, superintendence, and inspection shall
be charged to and be a lien or tax upon the property in front of or abutting
upon which any such sidewalk may have been rebuilt or repaired, as herein
provided.
   (D)   Said lien shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum and be
enforced against said owner and his or her said property in the manner provided
by law or in the event that the same be not paid, the amount of said lien shall
be levied and assessed as a special tax against such property and shall be
enforced and collected in the same manner that other taxes against said
property for municipal purposes are enforced and collected.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.140)
§ 150.13 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Removal of snow and ice.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises within
the town limits to keep the sidewalk in front of and abutting his or her
premises free and safe for pedestrians and, with all reasonable dispatch,
remove snow, ice, slush, mud, and other threats to foot travel and to prevent
the accumulation of the same upon such sidewalks.
      (2)   The sidewalks abutting such owner’s or tenant’s premises must be
cleared by such owner or tenant from the night’s accumulation of snow and ice
or other impediment before 9:00 a.m., following such accumulation thereof.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the tenant or owner of any premises
occupied by him or her to keep the sidewalks in front of the premises free and
safe for pedestrians and to prevent the continuance and accumulation of the
same upon such sidewalks.
      (4)   In no case shall the snow and ice or other such material removed
from the sidewalks within the business district of said town be dumped or
deposited within the adjoining streets, avenues, or alleys within two feet of
the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010)
   (B)   Notice to be given. It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff
Department to notify the owner, tenant, or occupant of property herein
legislated to remove or otherwise correct the objectionable matter herein
legislated against, which notice shall be sent by registered mail to the last
known address of such owner, tenant, or occupant, notifying him or her that he
or she has a period of 24 hours from and after receipt of such notice within
which to correct or otherwise remove the objections set forth in said notice.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020)
   (C)   Failure to comply, town to remove.
      (1)   Upon failure of the owner, tenant, or occupant of said premises to
comply with the terms and conditions of said notice, then and in that event,
the town shall have the right to remove such snow and ice and assess the cost
thereof against the said property abutting the sidewalk.
      (2)   Such assessment shall be a lien against such property until paid.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030) Penalty, see §
150.99
OBSTRUCTING STREETS, PUBLIC WAYS
§ 150.25 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or to be obstructed any
street, alley, or public way, or any portion thereof, within the town by any
vehicles, fences, structures, or other materials including mail boxes with
supporting posts or rails.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation. Whenever any street, alley, or public way, or any portion
thereof, shall be obstructed by any vehicle, fence, structure, or other
materials, the County Sheriff or town law enforcement officer shall serve
notice upon the person creating or maintaining such obstruction, requesting
said person to remove the obstruction immediately.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.020)
   (B)   Failure to abate obstruction. Any person so notified who shall fail or
neglect to remove such obstruction from such street, alley, or public way, or
any portion thereof, within three days after such notice has been served shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.030) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 REMOVAL.
   If after three days from the service of such notice the person shall fail to
remove such obstruction, it shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or town law
enforcement officer to cause such obstruction to be removed and the costs of
such removal shall be charged to the person creating or maintaining such
obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.040)
§ 150.28 TOWN COUNCIL; PERMISSIONS.
   No person shall encumber or obstruct any street, alley, or public way, or
any portion thereof, within the town limits by placing thereon any vehicles,
fences, structures, or other materials without first having obtained permission
from the Mayor or Council, and any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.050) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
150.25 through
150.28 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.060)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Tree planting; care standards
   
151.02   Adjacent owner responsibilities
   
151.03   Certain trees; nuisances
Tree Advisory Board
   
151.15   Purpose
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Authority and power
   
151.18   Advisory Board
   
151.19   Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TREE PLANTING; CARE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall conform
to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 “Standards for Tree
Care Operations,” and shall follow all tree care Best Management Practices
(BMPs) published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   Preferred species list. The Tree Advisory Board shall maintain an
official list of desirable tree species for planting on public property in two
size classes: Ornamental (20 feet or less in height at maturity) and shade
(greater than twenty feet at maturity).
   (C)   Planting distances. The Tree Advisory Board shall develop and maintain
an official set of spacing requirements for the planting of trees on public
property. No tree may be planted within the visibility triangle of a street
intersection or within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
   (D)   Planting trees under electric utility lines. Only trees listed as
ornamental trees on the official city tree species list may be planted under or
within 15 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.02 ADJACENT OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The owner of land adjacent to any town street or highway, when acting
within the provisions of this chapter, may plant and maintain trees in the
adjacent parkway area.
   (B)   (1)   No property owner shall allow a tree or other plant growing on
his or her property to obstruct or interfere with pedestrians or the view of
drivers, thereby creating a hazard.
      (2)   If an obstruction persists, the Tree Advisory Board shall notify
the property owner to prune or remove the tree or plant. If the owner fails to
comply with the notice, the town may undertake the necessary work and charge
the cost to the property owner.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 CERTAIN TREES; NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any tree, or limb thereof, on private property determined by the Tree
Advisory Board to have contracted a lethal, communicable disease or insect, to
be dead or dying, to obstruct the view of traffic signs or the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles, or that threatens public health, safety, and welfare
is declared a nuisance and the town may require its treatment or removal.
   (B)   Private property owners have the duty, at their own expense, to remove
or treat nuisance trees on their property. The town may remove such trees at
the owner’s expense if the owner does not comply with treatment and/or removal
as specified by the Tree Advisory Board within the written notification period
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023) Penalty, see §
151.99
TREE ADVISORY BOARD
§ 151.15 PURPOSE.
   To enhance the quality of life and the present and future health, safety,
and welfare of all residents, to enhance property values, and to ensure proper
planting and care of trees on public property, the Town Council herein
delegates the authority and responsibility for managing public trees, creates a
Tree Advisory Board, establishes practices governing the planting and care of
trees on public property, and makes provision for the emergency removal of
trees on private property under certain conditions.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGE. Any injury to or destruction of a tree, including, but not limited
to, uprooting, severance of all or part of the root system or main trunk,
storage of material on or compaction of surrounding soil, a substantial change
in the natural grade above a root system or around a trunk, surrounding the
tree with impervious paving materials, or any trauma caused by accident or
collision.
   NUISANCE. Any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or
insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety, and
welfare.
   PARKWAY. The area along a public street between the curb and the sidewalk;
or if there is no curb or sidewalk, the unpaved portion of the area between the
street right-of-way line and the paved portion of the street or alley.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained by
the town.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on town-owned or town-maintained
property or rights-of-way.
   TOP or TOPPING. The non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to stubs
within a tree’s crown to such a degree to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   (A)   Delegation of authority and responsibility.
      (1)   The Tree Advisory Board (Managing Department) and/or their
designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, shall have full authority and
responsibility to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees and woody plants
growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-of ways, town parks, and other
public property.
      (2)   This shall include the removal of trees that may threaten
electrical, telephone, gas, or any municipal water or sewer line, or any tree
that is affected by fungus, insect, or other pest disease.
   (B)   Coordination among town departments. All town departments will
coordinate as necessary with the Board and will provide services as required to
ensure compliance with this chapter as it relates to streets, alleys, rights-
of-way, drainage, easements, and other public properties not under direct
jurisdiction of the Board.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.18 ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Town Council hereby creates a “Tree Advisory Board,” hereinafter
referred to as the “Board.” At the first appointment of Tree Advisory Board
members, the Town Council will appoint all members at once.
   (A)   Duties. The Board shall act in an advisory capacity and shall:
      (1)   Coordinate and promote Arbor Day activities;
      (2)   Support public awareness and education programs relating to trees;
      (3)   Review city department concerns relating to tree care;
      (4)   Assist with the annual application to renew the Tree City U.S.A.
designation; and
      (5)   Other duties that may be assigned by Town Council.
   (B)   Membership. The Board shall consist of three members approved by Town
Council.
   (C)   Term of office.
      (1)   Board members shall be appointed for full time term until no longer
associated with the town.
      (2)   If a vacancy shall occur during any time of any member, the Town
Council shall appoint a successor.
   (D)   Meetings. The Tree Advisory Board shall meet a minimum of once each
year.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.19 APPEALS.
   Appeals to decisions by the Tree Advisory Board or to penalties imposed
after violations of this chapter shall be heard by the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 3-2023; passed 5-2-2023)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose, interpretation
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Parking, permits, railways, and utilities
   
152.04   Enforcement
Zoning Districts
   
152.15   Established districts
   
152.16   District standards
   
152.17   Non-conforming uses
   
152.18   Minimum size of districts
   
152.19   Changes; boundaries
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Purpose. For the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals, and the
general welfare of the community, the Council of the town hereby adopts this
zoning code to:
      (1)   Regulate the density of population and the location and use of
land, buildings, and structures;
      (2)   Regulate the height of buildings and structures and the size of
yards and open spaces around such;
      (3)   Divide the town into zoning districts providing special regulations
for each district;
      (4)   Define terms used in this zoning code; and
      (5)   Prescribe penalties for violation and procedures for enforcement of
this zoning code.
   (B)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this zoning code,
the Council shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
      (2)   It is not intended by this zoning code to interfere with, abrogate,
or annul rules or permits previously adopted or issued according to the law
relating to the use of buildings or premises, nor to interfere with, abrogate,
or annul any easement, covenants, or agreements between parties.
      (3)   Provided, however, that where this zoning code imposes greater
restrictions as to use or requires larger open spaces or less height than are
required by such rules or permits or by easements, covenants, or agreements,
the provisions of this zoning code shall control.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are herewith
defined as follows: The words “used for” include “designed for” and vice versa;
words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and vice versa; the word “building” includes
“structure;” and the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
      ACCESSORY USE. The use of land or of a subordinate building or part
thereof, or of a portion of a main building such use being accessory to or
incidental to the principal use of the premises.
      ALLEY. A way which provides only a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. Same as DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
      AUTOMOBILE STORAGE SPACE. Storage of new and used automobiles which are
capable of immediate operation under their own power.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to floor below is less than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling.
      BOARDING AND/OR LODGING HOUSE, INCLUDING ROOMING HOUSE. A building or
portion thereof other than a hotel where lodging and/or meals for five or more
persons are provided for compensation.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels. Where a dwelling is
separated by a division wall without openings, each portion of such dwelling
shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the grade level
to the highest point of the roof surface, if a flat roof; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; provided, however, that where buildings are set back from the
street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade along the front of the building.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple
dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and lodging houses, or trailer
houses. All DWELLINGS and DWELLING UNITS, with the exception of trailer houses
or mobile homes (which must meet, at a minimum, the Standard for Mobile
Homes—NFPA No. 5018) must meet the Uniform Building Codes (UBC) as referenced
in this zoning code.
      DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel
designed for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes and having
only one kitchen.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy
by three or more families living independently of each other, including
apartment blocks and houses.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached building designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by
two families living independently of each other, including duplex and semi-
detached houses.
      FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood or
marriage, or a group of not more than five persons, excluding servants, who
need not be related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.
      FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between
intersecting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, and end
of dead-end streets, or town boundary, measured along the street line. An
intersecting street shall determine only the boundary of the FRONTAGE on the
side of the street which it intersects.
      HARDSHIP. A condition immediately brought upon a property owner by a zone
change, and not a personal hardship growing out of the owner’s infirmities or
financial standing.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A minor use of a home where there is no sign or display
that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being used in whole
or in part for any other purpose than that of a dwelling; in connection with
which there is kept no stock in trade or commodity sold upon the premises, and
in which no person is employed other than a member of the immediate family
residing in the home.
      HOTEL. A building containing rooms intended or designed to be used or
which are used or rented or hired out to be occupied or which are occupied for
sleeping purposes for guests, and where only a general kitchen and dining room
are provided within the building or in an accessory building.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley, or other appropriate means of access.
      LOADING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
      LOT. Land held under separate ownership and occupied or to be occupied by
a building or unit group of buildings and accessory buildings, together with
such yards, open spaces, and lot areas as are required by this zoning code, and
having its principal frontage upon a street.
      LOT WIDTHS. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured
at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear
lot lines or 40 feet from the street it faces, whichever is the lesser.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the two side lot lines.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot on the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its rear.
      MOBILE HOME. See TRAILER or MOBILE HOME.
      MODULAR OR MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. A factory-fabricated transportable
building designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units
at a building site into a modular structure. The term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing
trees, and other prefabricated subelements which are to be incorporated into a
structure at the site.
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure, or portion thereof,
lawfully existing at the time this zoning code became effective, which was
designed, erected, or structurally altered for a use that does not conform to
the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NURSING HOME. A building or part of a building where five or more sick or
infirm persons are cared for.
      PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILES. Space within a building or public parking
area for the temporary parking or storage of one automobile.
      PREMISES. An area of land including a lot with or without buildings.
      ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
      SERVICE STATION. A building, or portion thereof, and land used for
supplying fuel, oil, and minor accessories for motor vehicles at retail direct
to the customer and for making minor emergency repairs.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on the least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet
above the floor of such a story.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare not less than 30 feet in width which
affords principal means of access to abutting property.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, which requires location above
or below the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change which would tend to prolong the life
of the supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, or girders.
      TRAILER or MOBILE HOME. Any dwelling unit larger than 256 square feet in
area which is either wholly or in substantial part manufactured at an off-site
location, and any movable or portable dwelling over 32 feet in length and over
eight feet wide, constructed to be towed on its own chassis and designed
without a permanent foundation for year-round occupancy, which includes one or
more components that can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently
expanded for additional capacity, or of two or more units separately towable
but designed to be jointed into one integral unit, as well as a portable
dwelling composed of a single unit.
      UNIFORM BUILDING CODES. UBC consists of the Uniform Building Code (1973
Edition), Uniform Mechanical Code (1973 Edition), Uniform Housing Code (1973
Edition), Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings (1973 Edition),
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (1971 Edition and Accumulative Supplement and
1973 Edition), Standards for Mobile Homes—NFPA No. 5018 (1973 Edition),
National Electrical Code (1975 Edition), and the Uniform Plumbing Code (1973
Edition) all as adopted, periodically updated, revised, and enforced by the
Construction Regulation Bureau of the Montana Department of Administration.
      YARD. An open space other than a court, on a lot unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
zoning code.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot. The depth
of the yard being the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
most rear main building and the rear lot line. The depth of the required REAR
YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the rear lot line
toward the nearest part of a main building.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between a main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard, or front lot line where no front yard is
required to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the
nearest part of a main building.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.03 PARKING, PERMITS, RAILWAYS, AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be hereafter erected, reconstructed,
structurally altered, enlarged, or moved, nor shall any building, structure, or
land be hereafter used, designed, or intended to be used for any use other than
is permitted in the district in which such building, structure, or land is
located and then only after applying for and securing a permit from the
Council.
   (B)   For the purpose of this zoning code, nothing herein shall be so
interpreted as to interfere with the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the facilities of any public utility or public service including railway
traces, and rights-of-way, on any property where such use lawfully existed at
the time this zoning code became effective.
   (C)   There shall be provided at the time of the erection of any main
building or structure, or at any time any main building or structure is
enlarged or increased in capacity, minimum parking accommodations commensurate
with the type and nature of the building or structure involved with adequate
provisions for ingress and egress; which said minimum accommodations and
adequate provisions for ingress and egress are to be determined and enforced by
the Council:
      (1)   Parking for residential single-family. Two permanently maintained,
off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit. Spaces may be provided one behind
the other;
      (2)   Parking for residential multifamily. One and one-half spaces per
dwelling unit for the first six dwelling units, then one for each dwelling unit
thereafter;
      (3)   Parking for buildings other than dwellings. For a new building or
structure or for the enlargement or increase in seating capacity, floor area,
or guest rooms of any existing main building or structure, there shall be at
least one permanently maintained parking space of 250 square feet as follows:
         (a)   For churches, senior high schools, colleges, and for theaters,
general auditoria, stadia, and other similar places of assembly, at least one
parking space for every ten seats provided in said building or structure;
         (b)   For hospitals and welfare institutions, at least one parking
area for every 1,000 square feet of floor area in said building;
         (c)   For hotels, apartment hotels, and residential clubs, at least
one parking space for each of the first 20 individual guest rooms or suites;
one additional parking space for every four guest rooms or suites in excess of
20;
         (d)   For tourist courts and trailer parks, at least one parking space
for each individual sleeping or living unit; and
         (e)   For professional, office, and administrative buildings, one
space per 100 gross square feet of floor area up to 4,000; one space per 300
gross square feet thereafter.
      (4)   Loading space. Every hospital institution, hotel, commercial, or
industrial building hereafter erected or established on a lot shall have one
permanently maintained loading space of not less than ten feet in width, 20
feet in length measured perpendicularly to the land, and 14 feet in height for
each 2,000 square feet of lot area upon which said buildings is located;
provided, however, that not more than two such spaces shall be required unless
the building on such lot has a gross floor area of more than 80,000 square
feet, in which case there shall be one additional loading space for each
additional 40,000 square feet in excess of 80,000 square feet; and
      (5)   Parking for commercial district. Buildings in this district are
exempt from the parking and loading space requirements of this zoning code.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This zoning code shall be enforced by the Council or someone
officially designated to act for the Council.
   (B)   A building permit shall be issued by the Council before any building
or premises or part thereof may hereafter be created, erected, changed, or
converted wholly or in part in its use or structure to the effect that such
building and use proposed therefore conform to the provisions of this zoning
code.
   (C)   Each application for a building permit must be accompanied by a plat
drawn to scale and in such form as may be prescribed by the Council showing the
actual size and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size of the
building to be erected, a statement of the automobile parking space and
accommodations that will be available and used with and in connection to said
building, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of the regulations in this zoning code. The Council shall file a
careful record of such application and plat.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.15 ESTABLISHED DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The jurisdictional area is divided into the following districts.
 
Agriculture-Open Space    A-O
Residential Single-Family R-1
Residential General       A-2
Commercial                C-1
Industrial                I-1
 
   (B)   The districts aforesaid and the boundaries of each shown on the map
attached to the ordinance codified herein, made part of this zoning code, and
designated as the “Moore Zoning Map.”
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.16 DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Use. No building, structure, or land shall be hereafter used and no
building or structure shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or
enlarged except for the following uses in each district:
      (1)   Agriculture-Open Space District (A-O):
         (a)   Farms with a minimum area of five acres;
         (b)   Stands for the display or sale of agricultural products raised
on the premises not to exceed 400 square feet in ground coverage;
         (c)   Airports and landing fields having prior approval of the Federal
Aviation Agency;
         (d)   Mining and extraction of minerals or raw materials and the
manufacturing, processing, treating, and storing of materials or minerals which
are extracted from any portion of the district;
         (e)   Publicly owned or operated properties;
         (f)   Parks, playgrounds, golf courses, and recreational uses except
miniature golf courses or commercial practice driving tees;
         (g)   Railroad tracks and yards and similar railroad facilities;
         (h)   Churches and other places of worship, Sunday School buildings,
and parish houses;
         (i)   Public elementary and high schools or private schools with a
curriculum the same as ordinarily given in public elementary and high schools;
         (j)   Cemeteries, including mausoleums; provided that mausoleums shall
be distant at least 200 feet from every street line and adjoining lot lines,
and provided further that any new cemetery shall contain an area of ten acres
or more;
         (k)   Private clubs except those the chief activity of which is a
service is customarily carried on as a business, and skeet and gun clubs which
must first be approved by either the Board of County Commissioners or the
Council; or
         (l)   Hospitals and institutions of an educational, religious,
charitable, or philanthropic nature; provided, however, that such buildings
shall not be located upon sites containing an area of less than five acres, may
occupy not over 10% of the total area of the lot, and that the buildings shall
be set back from all yard lines a distance of not less than one foot for each
foot of building height.
      (2)   Residential Single-Family District (R-1):
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings provided, however, that:
            1.   No highly reflective exterior finish, siding, or surface
material is used;
            2.   Roof pitch conforms to standards delineated in the One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code;
            3.   The main portion of the dwelling structure as viewed from the
street has a length not exceeding four times its width; and
            4.   The dwelling be placed on a continuous wall or footing
composed of the concrete or other material satisfactory to the Council.
         (b)   Churches, libraries, museums, and schools under the
jurisdictional control of the School Board or boards of the town, provided that
all these uses are located at least 20 feet from all lot lines;
         (c)   Hospitals owned or approved by the town, provided they are
located at least 50 feet from all lot lines;
         (d)   Playgrounds, parks, cemeteries, swimming pools, or community
centers owned or approved by the Council of the town;
         (e)   Golf courses; except driving ranges or tees, miniature courses,
and similar uses operated for commercial purposes;
         (f)   Public fire stations, pubic utility buildings, or telephone
exchange where no public business office and no repair or storage facilities
are maintained;
         (g)   Accessory uses and buildings including home occupations; or
         (h)   Automobile parking required for dwellings and buildings other
than dwellings, as provided for in §
152.03.
      (3)   Residential General District (R-2):
         (a)   Those uses allowed in the R-1 District;
         (b)   Multiple dwellings, apartment complexes, townhouses, and
condominiums; and modular and prefabricated housing not meeting UBC;
         (c)   Mobile homes, mobile home parks or courts, and mobile home
subdivisions, provided that:
            1.   Mobile home parks and courts meet the minimum standards of the
state’s Department of Health and Environmental Sciences; and
            2.   Mobile homes located on individual lots (one mobile home per
lot) in a subdivision of record must have a minimum lot area of 6,250 square
feet.
               a.   Such mobile homes must have individual utility hookups,
must be skirted with material acceptable to the Council, and must be placed on
a concrete footing that extends under the main frame of the structure.
               b.   Such mobile homes shall have a minimum dimension of eight
feet wide and 32 feet long.
         (d)   Boarding and lodging houses;
         (e)   Rest homes and nurseries;
         (f)   Beauty parlors in a dwelling where the residential appearance of
the building is not changed and no advertising signs are displayed other than
one unlighted sign for each parlor not exceeding six square feet in area; or
         (g)   Private kindergartens.
      (4)   Commercial District (C-1):
         (a)   Retail stores or businesses;
         (b)   Amusement enterprises if conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building;
         (c)   Auditoria and theaters;
         (d)   Automobile, truck, and heavy equipment sales and services;
         (e)   Printing, lithographing, or publishing;
         (f)   Automobile repair, storage, and servicing;
         (g)   Laundry and dry cleaning;
         (h)   Machine shop for small tools, provided that all such operations
are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building;
         (i)   Hotels, motels, and dwelling units within but secondary to
commercial establishments;
         (j)   Advertising signs and structures;
         (k)   Baked goods or confectionery shop;
         (l)   Barber shop, drugstore, or beauty parlor;
         (m)   Book, stationery, florist, gift, or jewelry store;
         (n)   Bank;
         (o)   Dressmaking, millinery, dry goods, or notions store;
         (p)   Frozen food lockers;
         (q)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable, or meat stores;
         (r)   Hardware, furniture, or electrical appliance store;
         (s)   Offices, business, or professional;
         (t)   Photographic studio;
         (u)   Restaurant, drive-in restaurant, bars, and nightclubs;
         (v)   Shoe store or shoe repair shop;
         (w)   Tailor, clothing, or wearing apparel shop;
         (x)   Public parking area;
         (y)   Medical and dental clinics; or
         (z)   Undertaking establishment.
      (5)   Industrial District (I-1):
         (a)   Heavy equipment sales, service, and storage;
         (b)   Building materials sales and storage;
         (c)   Cartage and express facilities;
         (d)   Animal hospital, kennel, or pound;
         (e)   Feed and seed sales and storage;
         (f)   Airport, railroad, and trucking terminals, yards, and related
facilities;
         (g)   Fuel and petroleum bulk plants and storage facilities;
         (h)   Radio and television stations and towers;
         (i)   Auction facilities;
         (j)   Landfills;
         (k)   Temporary buildings or structures;
         (l)   Accessory uses, incidental to, and on the same lot as the
principal use; or
         (m)   Other manufacturing, processing, storage, and similar uses
determined by the local governing body after review by the Zoning Commission to
be of the same general character as the above delineated uses and found not to
be obnoxious, unhealthy, or offensive by reason of the potential emission or
transmission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter,
glare or heat, or fire or explosive hazards.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   No building or structure or enlargement thereof shall be
hereinafter erected to exceed the following specified heights in each district:
         (a)   A-O District: No limitation;
         (b)   R-1 District: 25 feet;
         (c)   R-2 District: No limitation;
         (d)   C-1 District: No limitation; and
         (e)   I-1 District: No limitation.
      (2)   Exemptions:
         (a)   This zoning code shall not be deemed to limit or restrict the
height of belfries, chimneys, clock towers, cooling or catalytic cracking
towers, elevators, bulk-heads, grain elevators, stacks, water towers, wireless
or television towers, or any similar appurtenances to buildings, but these
structures shall be subject to such restrictions and regulations as may be
imposed by other chapter; and
         (b)   Churches, public or semi-public buildings, hospitals, schools,
colleges, and private clubs may exceed the height restrictions of the district
in which they are constructed, provided such structures shall have side yards
on both sides complying with the area regulations of the district, in addition,
the side yards shall be increased one foot in width for each five feet that the
height of the building exceeds the height regulations of the district.
   (C)   Yard area.
      (1)   No building or structure, or enlargement thereof, shall be
hereafter erected unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   A-O District: No restrictions other than those delineated in
division (A) above;
         (b)   R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts:
            1.   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 20%
of the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not exceed 20 feet. Provided,
however, that where lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage between
intersecting streets are developed with buildings having front yards with a
variation of not more than six feet in depth, the average of such front yards
shall establish the front yard depth; buildings located entirely in the rear
one-half of the lot shall not be counted, and in no case shall this regulation
require a front yard of more than 30 feet in depth.
            2.   Side yards.
               a.   Interior lots. There shall be a side yard on each side of
the main building of not less than 12% of the width of the lot, and such side
yard shall not be less than three feet in width and need not exceed six feet in
width. Where accessory buildings are located at least ten feet to the rear of a
main building, no side yard shall be required except as is necessary to
accommodate a foundation, footings, window, or eaves through overhang or
surface water drip upon an adjacent property and as requested specifically in
the current building code of the town. Accessory buildings attached to a main
building shall provide side yards as required in the case of a main building.
               b.   Corner lots. There shall be a side yard required for all
buildings that flank or face upon an intersecting street of not less than ten
feet.
               c.   Reversed frontage. Where a corner lot is developed so that
the buildings face an intersecting street, there shall be a side yard
applicable to main and accessory buildings on the street side of the corner lot
of not less than the front yard required for the interior lots to the rear of
such corner lot. The front yard facing upon the intersecting street shall not
be less than ten feet. Accessory buildings shall comply with the side yard
requirements for corner lots except as stated herein.
               d.   Reversed corner lots. There shall be a side yard on the
street side of such reversed corner lot of not less than the front yard
required on the lots in the rear of such lot. No accessory building on such a
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard line required on the
key lot to the rear nor be located nearer than five feet to the side lot line
of such key lot.
            3.   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20% of
the depth of the lot, but such rear yard need not exceed 20 feet. Accessory
buildings shall have a rear yard of not less than three feet.
            4.   Lot areas. Every lot shall have a minimum area of 6,250 square
feet.
         (c)   C-1 Commercial District and I-1 Industrial District: No
requirements.
      (2)   Exceptions to yard area requirements.
         (a)   Where churches, schools, or hospitals are located in any
residential district and have no portion used as a place of habitation, the
depth of the rear yard may be reduced to 12 feet.
         (b)   The front, side, and rear yards shall be waived where dwellings
are erected above stores, shops, or other commercial uses that do not require
such yards.
         (c)   Every part of a required yard shall be open from its lowest
point to the sky unobstructed except for the ordinary projections of sills,
belt courses, cornices, eaves, and ornamental features; ordinary projections of
chimneys and flues; provided however, that in no case shall such a projection
exceed 50% of the required side yard. Bay or breast windows not over 15 feet
long and projecting not more than 18 inches may be permitted where the same are
so placed as not to obstruct the light or ventilation; provided, that open or
lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies
opening into fire towers project into a yard not more than five feet but not
closer than three feet to the property line.
         (d)   On any corner lot in which a front yard is required by this
zoning code, no wall, fence, or other structure shall be erected, and no hedge,
shrub, tree, or other growth exceeding three feet above the street grade shall
be maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street
lines and a straight line joining said street lines at points which are 30 feet
distant from the point of intersection, measured along the curb of said street
line.
         (e)   On lots of irregular shape where the yard regulations can be
determined but cannot reasonably be complied with, or on lots so located that
appropriate improvement cannot be secured through strict adherence to the yard
regulations, the yard regulations may be modified by the Council.
   (D)   Lot area per dwelling unit. No building or structure or enlargement
thereto shall be hereafter erected unless the minimum lot area per dwelling
unit, delineated in Table I as provided, are maintained.
TABLE I. General Yard and Lot Area Requirements
Zoning Requirement District
TABLE I. General Yard and Lot Area Requirements
Zoning Requirement                           District
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit in square R-1   R-2¹
feet
One unit                                     6,250 6,000²
Two units                                          7,000²
Three units                                        8,500²
Four units                                         10,000²
Five units                                         11,500²
Six units                                          13,000²
Seven units                                        14,500²
Eight units                                        16,000²
Over eight units                                   300 ea. additional unit²
NOTES TO TABLE:
¹ Mobile home and recreational vehicle parks must conform to the minimum
standards of the state’s Department of Health and Environmental Science.
² Requirement is for non-mobile home units only.
 
   (E)   Signs. No sign or nameplate shall be enlarged, erected, or constructed
unless it meets the following district requirements:
      (1)   A-O District: No restrictions other than those which may be
required under state or federal law;
      (2)   R-1 and R-2 Districts: One nameplate not exceeding three square
feet in area for each dwelling unit indicating the name of the occupant; and/or
a permitted occupation; one identification sign not exceeding 20 square feet in
area for buildings other than dwellings; one church bulletin board not
exceeding 12 square feet in area; single or double faced, unlighted sign or
signs, appertaining only to the respective rental or sale of property on which
it is located, provided such signs do not exceed a total of 20 square feet in
area and are not located nearer than ten feet to any street or highway; and one
or more signs, not exceeding three square feet in area, warning against
trespassing; and
      (3)   C-1 and I-1 Districts: No restrictions.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.17 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   (a)   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the adoption
of this zoning code, although such use does not conform to the provisions
hereof, may be continued, but if such non-conforming use is discontinued for a
period of one year, any further use of said premises shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Mobile homes located so as to be in violation of this zoning
code, i.e. a non-conforming use, may not be replaced by another mobile home
once the mobile home so located at the time of adaption of this zoning code is
moved.
      (2)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of adoption of
this zoning code may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provision hereof, and alterations or improvements of said non-conforming use
will be allowed, provided that the same shall not extend beyond the lot lines
of the existing property owed by the owner of said non-conforming use at the
time of the adoption hereof, subject to yard requirements above provided.
      (3)   When a district shall hereafter be changed, any then existing non-
conforming use in such changed district may be continued or changed to any use
permitted in the same district as that in which the existing use is permitted,
provided that all other regulations governing the new use are complied with.
      (4)   (a)   This zoning code shall not apply to existing non-conforming
structures or the existing or future use of any existing non-conforming
building or use except as herein otherwise provided, provided that this zoning
code shall not be construed to prevent the restoration of a building damaged or
prevent the continuance of the use of such building or any part thereof,
provided that such restoration shall be begun, and diligently pursued within
one year.
         (b)   Nor shall the name be construed to prevent a change or
alteration of such existing use from an industrial use to a commercial use or
from a commercial use to a residential use as herein provided.
      (5)   The Zoning Commission may authorize in a residential district for a
period of not more than two years from the date of such permit, a temporary
building for commerce or industry where it is related to an allowable
construction activity; however, such permit shall not be renewed.
      (6)   Any structure vacant at the time of the adoption of this zoning
code shall be classified as to use in accordance with its previous use,
arrangement, design, or intended use, except that any structure vacant for a
period of one year immediately prior to the adaption of this zoning code shall
not be considered a non-conforming use as defined in this section and any
future use of said premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
zoning code.
   (B)   Procedure in case of non-conformity.
      (1)   If on any inspection the condition of a building or premises or its
use or occupancy are found not to conform to the requirements of this zoning
code or the conditions of an existing certificate therefor, the Council shall
at once issue written notice to the owner specifying the manner in which the
building or premises or its use of occupancy fails to so conform, and the owner
shall at once take steps to make it so conform as directed.
      (2)   It is necessary for the proper protection of the occupants, the
Council shall order the use or premises vacated until its condition is made
satisfactory and in conformity with the requirements of this zoning code, at
which time a letter certifying proper conformance with the ordinance shall be
issued by the Council.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.18 MINIMUM SIZE OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A zoning district shall comprise at least twelve 7,000 square foot
lots, or an area equivalent thereto (84,000 square feet or 1.92 acres), to
constitute a zoning district; this area may be divided by a public right-of-
way.
   (B)   When considering an area of less than 1.92 acres for which a zone
change is being considered, property immediately adjacent to the area of
proposed district change which is the same as the district change being
requested may constitute additional area to provide for the minimum size of
district.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.19 CHANGES; BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Changes in the boundaries of any district or part thereof may only be
made by the Council; the following procedure should, however, be followed.
      (1)   A petition requesting a change shall first be presented to the
Zoning Commission at least one week prior to its regularly scheduled meeting;
duly signed by the owners of 35% or more, either of the area of the lots
included within such change, or of the lots immediately adjacent, extending 150
feet therefrom.
      (2)   The Zoning Commission shall make a careful investigation of such
proposed change and file the report thereon within 30 days after the Zoning
Commission meeting for which it was originally submitted.
      (3)   The Council shall thereupon cause notice to be published twice in
the official newspaper of the area of the time and place set for the hearing
upon such report.
      (4)   (a)   The first publication of such notice shall be made not less
than 15 days before the date of such hearing.
         (b)   At such hearing, the Council shall hear all persons and all
objections and recommendations relative to such proposed change; thereupon,
action shall be taken upon such zoning code by said Council, and such action
shall be final and conclusive as to all matters and things involved in said
petition.
         (c)   Provided, however, in case of a protest against such changes
signed by the owners of 20% or more either of the areas of the lots included in
such proposed change or of those immediately adjacent extending 150 feet
therefrom, such amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable
vote of two-thirds of all the members of the Council.
   (B)   When such proposed amendment has been rejected by the Council, neither
it nor one involving only the same property shall be offered for adoption
within one year after such rejection.
   (C)   Changes in the regulations and restrictions in any district may be
made from time to time by the Council in the same manner as is prescribed in
divisions (A) and (B) above for making changes in the boundaries except that
such action may be initiated without the presentation of a petition requesting
it.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation owning, controlling, or managing any
building or premises wherein or whereon there shall be placed, or there exists
firm or corporation who shall assist in the commission of any violation of
these provisions, or who shall build contrary to the piece and specifications
submitted to and approved by the Council, or any person, firm, or corporation
who shall omit, neglect, or refuse to do any act required in the provisions
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $300 for each offense and shall be
imprisoned until such fine be paid, but not exceeding 50 days. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5-3-1977)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of floodplain regulations
   
153.02   Amendments to floodplain regulations
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   The town’s floodplain regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 6-14-2010, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 153.02 AMENDMENTS TO FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   The following text amendment changes to the following paragraphs of the
town’s floodplain regulations are hereby made in order to comply with the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) regulations and the most recent NFIP Flood Insurance Study.
   (A)   Changes to Section 1-3, “Adoption,” shall read as follows:
“This Resolution adopts the set of comprehensive land use regulations attached
as Appendix A for the identified 100-year floodplains within Fergus County.
Identification of the 100-year floodplain is cased on the Flood Insurance Study
for Fergus County, Montana, dated July 22, 2010. All other regulations are
hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistencies.”
   (B)   Changes to Section 1-5, “Definitions,” shall read as follows:
“Official Floodplain Maps - The Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary/
Floodway Maps provided by FEMA for Fergus County, dated July 22, 2010.”
   (C)   Changes to Section 1-7, “Floodplain District Establishment,” shall
read as follows:
“The floodplain districts established are defined by the base flood elevations
and the 100-year floodplains as delineated in the Flood Insurance Study. The
basis for engineering report entitlement, “The Flood Insurance Study for Fergus
County”, dated July 22, 2010, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and
Flood Boundary/Floodway Maps. The Official Floodplain Maps, together with the
Flood Insurance Study are on file in the office of the Floodplain
Administrator.”
(Res. 6-14-2010, passed 6-14-2010)
TABLE I: FUNDS
 
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
-          - -         Water Works Fund (Prior Code, § 4.00.080)
-          - -         Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund (Prior Code, Ch.
                       4.07)
2023-01    8-4-2022    Distribution of Bridge and Road Safety and
                       Accountability Program Funds
12-12-2011 12-12-2011  Agreement to assist in funding the operation of Snowy
                       Mountain Development Corporation
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
M.C.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.A. Cite Code Section
7-1-4150    93.99
7-1-4150(4) 93.99
7-23-4101   90.21
7-23-4104   90.05
7-34-4101   90.51
45-6-101    133.99
45-6-201    133.99
45-6-203    133.99
45-7-304    30.17
45-8-211    90.99
75-6-112(4) 50.31
            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
-                  10.23
1.00.010           10.01
1.00.020           10.02
1.00.030           10.04
1.00.040           10.05
1.00.050           10.03
1.02.010           11.02
1.06.010           30.01
1.06.020           30.01
1.08.010           10.99
1.08.020           10.99
1.10.010           10.20;
                   11.01
1.10.020           10.21;
                   11.01
1.10.030           10.22
1.12.010           11.01
2.02.010           31.01
2.02.020           31.01
2.04.010           30.33
2.04.020           30.45
2.04.030           30.46
2.04.040           30.47
2.04.050           30.34
2.04.060           30.30
2.04.070           30.33
2.04.080           30.33
2.04.090           30.32
2.04.100           30.31
2.06.010           30.15
2.06.020           30.16
2.06.030           30.17
2.06.050           30.18
2.06.060           30.19
2.08.010           31.15
2.08.020           31.16
2.10.060           32.01
2.10.070           32.01
2.10.080           32.02
2.10.090           32.02
2.10.100           32.03
2.16.010           33.20
2.16.020           33.21
2.16.030           33.22
2.16.040           33.23
2.16.050           33.24
2.18.010           33.01
2.18.020           33.02
2.18.030           33.03
2.18.040           33.04
2.18.050           33.05
2.18.060           33.06
2.18.070           33.07
2.18.080           33.08
2.18.090           33.05
2.18.100           33.09
2.18.110           33.99
4.00.010           50.01
4.00.020           50.02
4.00.030           50.03
4.00.040           50.03
4.00.050           50.04
4.00.060           50.05
4.00.070           50.06
4.00.080           TSO, Table I
4.00.090           50.07
4.00.100           50.16
4.00.110           50.08
4.00.120           50.09
4.00.130           50.07
4.00.140           50.10
4.00.150           50.11
4.00.160           50.12
4.00.170           50.13
4.00.180           50.14
4.00.190           50.15
4.00.200           50.17;
                   50.99
4.01.010           50.65
4.01.020           50.66
4.01.030           50.67;
                   50.99
4.02.010           50.30
4.02.020           50.31
4.02.030           50.32
4.02.040           50.33
4.02.050           50.99
                   51.01-
Ch. 4.06           51.08;
                   51.99
                   51.20-
Ch. 4.07           51.30;
                   51.34;
                   TSO, Table I
4.10.010           50.45
4.10.020           50.46
4.10.030           50.47
4.10.040           50.48
4.10.050           50.49
4.10.060           50.50
4.10.070           50.47
4.10.080           50.99
7.02.010           52.01
7.02.020           52.01
7.02.030           52.02
7.02.040           52.03
7.02.050           52.04
7.04.010           91.16
8.02.010           90.21
8.02.020           90.22
8.02.060           90.23
8.02.080           90.22
8.02.100           90.24
8.04.010           90.01
8.04.020           90.02
8.04.030           90.03
8.04.050           90.04
8.04.060           90.05;
                   90.99
8.04.070           90.06
8.04.080           90.07
8.04.090           90.08
8.04.100           90.99
8.08.010           90.35
8.08.020           90.36
8.08.030           90.37
8.08.040           90.38
8.08.050           90.39
8.12.010           90.50
8.12.020           90.51
8.12.030           90.52
8.12.040           90.99
9.02.010           92.01;
                   130.24
9.02.020           92.02;
                   130.20
9.02.030           92.03;
                   133.01
9.02.040           130.06
9.02.050           110.01
9.02.060           132.15
9.02.070           130.09
9.02.080           133.15
9.02.090           132.04
9.02.100           131.06
9.02.110           132.01
9.02.120           130.35
9.02.130           130.24
9.02.140           133.16
9.02.150           130.03
9.02.160           130.23
9.02.170           130.05
9.02.180           132.16
9.02.190           131.02
9.02.200           130.01
9.02.210           130.22
9.02.220           131.03
9.02.230           131.04
9.02.240           91.15
9.02.250           92.16
9.02.260           70.080
9.02.280           130.36
9.02.290           70.081
9.02.300           131.01
9.02.310           130.04
9.02.320           130.08
9.02.330           131.03
9.02.340           130.21
9.02.350           132.02
9.02.360           111.01
9.02.370           131.05
9.02.390           132.03
9.02.400           130.02
9.02.410           91.17
9.02.420           91.01
9.04.010           130.37
9.04.020           130.37
9.04.030           130.37
9.06.010           132.17
9.06.020           132.17
9.06.030           132.17
9.06.040           132.30
9.06.050           132.31
9.08.010           130.07
10.02.010          70.001
10.04.010          70.030
10.04.020          70.002
10.04.030          70.031
10.04.040          70.032
10.04.050          70.033
10.04.060          70.003
10.06.010          70.045
10.06.020          70.046
10.06.030          70.047
10.06.040          70.048
10.06.050          70.051
10.06.060          70.049
10.08.010          70.065
10.08.020          70.066
10.08.030          70.067
10.10.010          70.015
10.10.020          70.016
10.10.030          70.017
10.10.040          70.018;
                   70.019
10.12.010          71.01
                   71.02;
10.12.020          Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                   90.01
10.12.030          71.03
10.12.040          71.04
10.12.050          71.04
10.12.060          71.04
10.12.070          71.05
10.12.080          71.04
10.12.090          71.06
10.14.010          92.15
10.14.020          92.15
10.16.010          94.01
10.16.020          94.02
10.16.030          94.03
10.16.040          94.04
10.18.010          70.050
12.02.010          150.05
12.02.020          150.06
12.02.030          150.07
12.02.040          150.09
12.02.050          150.10
12.02.060          150.10
12.02.070          150.01
12.02.080          150.01
12.02.090          150.02
12.02.100          150.11
12.02.110          150.08
12.02.120          150.03
12.02.130          150.04
12.02.140          150.12
12.04.010          150.13
12.04.020          150.13
12.04.030          150.13
14.02.010          150.25
14.02.020          150.26
14.02.030          150.26
14.02.040          150.27
14.02.050          150.28
14.02.060          150.99
Appendix A         51.31
Appendix B         51.32
Appendix C         51.33
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
10-16-2004 10-16-2004  34.02
9-11-2006  9-11-2006   50.13
6-14-2010  6-14-2010   153.01;
                       153.02
12-12-2011 12-12-2011  TSO I
-          4-14-2014   31.02
2014-11-01 11-10-2014  11-10-2014
2023-01    8-4-2022    TSO I
2023-10-05 10-5-2023   50.14
                      
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       152.01 –
                       152.04;
-          5-3-1977    152.15 –
                       152.19;
                       152.99
8-15       1-3-1980    133.17;
                       133.99
8-15       1-4-1980    133.18;
                       133.99
4.02       6-4-1981    50.34;
                       50.99
-          2-11-1993   90.21
12-10-98   3- -1999    90.20
                       93.01 –
2022.07.02 9-4-2022    93.05;
                       93.99
                       151.01 –
                       151.03;
3-2023     5-2-2023    151.15 –
                       151.19;
                       151.99
 
