PILOT GROVE, MISSOURI
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 121, passed March 3, 2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Contents of code
   
10.02   Citation of code
   
10.03   Official copy of code
   
10.04   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.05   Jurisdiction of code
   
10.06   Catchlines of sections
   
10.07   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.08   Severability
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Supplementation of code
   
10.11   Maintenance of copies of code
   
10.12   Organization of code
   
10.13   Official time
   
10.14   Publication of code; evidence
   
10.15   Prosecution where different provisions exist for same offense
   
10.16   Headings
   
10.17   Repealing ordinance; former ordinance not revived
   
10.18   Notice
 
   
10.99   Ordinance enforcement and administration; penalty
§ 10.01 CONTENTS OF CODE.
   This code contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
city and includes ordinances dealing with municipal administration, municipal
elections, building and property regulations, business and occupations, health
and sanitation, public order, and similar objects.
(Prior Code, § 100.030)
§ 10.02 CITATION OF CODE.
   This code may be known and cited as the “Municipal Code of the City of Pilot
Grove, Missouri”.
(Prior Code, § 100.040)
§ 10.03 OFFICIAL COPY OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code, bearing the signature of the Mayor and
attestation of the City Clerk as to its adoption, shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk. Two additional copies of this code shall be kept in
the City Clerk’s office available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 100.050)
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
and rules of construction shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Pilot Grove,
Missouri.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking, in writing, in such form
and with such sureties as may be satisfactory to the Mayor is sufficient unless
otherwise required by state law or this code.
      CITY, THE CITY, or THIS CITY. The City of Pilot Grove, Missouri.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
      CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS, or CITY LIMITS. The legal boundary
of the City of Pilot Grove, Missouri.
      COUNTY or THIS COUNTY. The County of Cooper, Missouri.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      COURT. The Municipal Court of the city.
      DAY. A day of 24 hours beginning at 12:00 midnight.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      DEFINITIONS. Unless otherwise expressly provided, definitions given
within a title, chapter, subchapter, section, or division apply only to words
or phrases used in such title, chapter, subchapter, section, or division.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring an
officer or the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain
inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to
designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section
designate otherwise.
      DESIGNEE. Following an official of the city, means the authorized agent,
employee, or representative of such official.
      INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general
welfare. Where any provision of the code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than another more general provision imposed by the code, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
      KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Natural persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs, and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent, or employee.
      LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION. All general provisions, terms, phrases, and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Board of Aldermen may be fully carried out.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      MAYOR. An officer of the city known as the Mayor of the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Pilot Grove, Missouri.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      MONTH. A calendar month.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      NAME OF OFFICER. Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be
construed as though the words “of the City of Pilot Grove” were added.
      NON-TECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole
or a part of such building or land.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate, and to
partnerships and other unincorporated associations.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When used by way of reference to any section of
this code, shall mean the section next preceding or next following that in
which the reference is made, unless some other section is expressly designated
in the reference.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property. (See PERSONAL PROPERTY and REAL
PROPERTY.)
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk, or
other public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      REAL PROPERTY. Including the terms REAL PROPERTY, PREMISES, REAL ESTATE,
or LANDS, shall be deemed to be co-extensive with lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of
habitation, and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the
intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another,
the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her RESIDENCE.
      REVISED STATUTES or RSMo. The Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended.
      SEAL. The seal of the City of Pilot Grove.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Where the written signature or subscription of
any natural person is required, the proper handwriting of such person or his or
her mark, when such person cannot write, shall be intended.
      STATE, THE STATE, or THIS STATE. The State of Missouri.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      STREET. Any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words shall include every
other of them.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY. Goods, chattels, and all personal property,
except intangible personal property.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN, IN WRITING, and WRITING WORD FOR WORD. Printing, lithographing,
or other modes of representing words and letters; but, in all cases where the
signature of any natural person is required, the proper handwriting of the
person, or his or her mark, is intended.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed, and the word “year”
shall be equivalent to the words “year of our Lord”.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
   (B)   Newspaper. Whenever in this code or other ordinance of the city it is
required that notice be published in the “official newspaper” or a “newspaper
of general circulation published in the city” and, if there is no newspaper
published within the city, the said notice shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city, regardless of its place of publication.
Such newspaper shall not include an advertising circular or other medium for
which no subscription list is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
   (C)   Altering or amending code.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions
or deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such official copy of the code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. Any person, firm, or corporation violating this section shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to amendments, additions, or
deletions to this code, duly passed by the Board of Aldermen, which may be
prepared by the City Clerk for insertion in this code.
(Prior Code, § 100.060)
   (D)   Words and phrases; how construed. Words and phrases shall be taken in
their plain or ordinary and usual sense, but technical words and phrases having
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to
their technical import.
(Prior Code, § 100.090)
   (E)   Tense. Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the
context, all words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be
limited to the time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include
the time of the happening of any act, event, or requirement for which provision
is made herein, either as a power, immunity, requirement, or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 100.150)
   (F)   Gender. When any subject matter, party, or person is described or
referred to by words importing the masculine, females, as well as males, and
associations and bodies corporate, as well as individuals, shall be deemed to
be included.
(Prior Code, § 100.190)
   (G)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons unless
otherwise declared in the law giving the authority.
(Prior Code, § 100.200)
   (H)   Number. When any subject matter, party, or person is described or
referred to by words importing the singular number, the plural and separate
matters and persons and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; and
when words importing the plural number are used, the singular shall be
included.
(Prior Code, § 100.210)
§ 10.05 JURISDICTION OF CODE.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code shall apply to acts
performed within the corporate limits of the city. The provisions of this code
shall also apply to acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the
limits prescribed by law where the law confers power on the city to regulate
such particular acts outside the corporate limits.
§ 10.06 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
§ 10.07 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code,
shall be considered as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 100.110)
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code
are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or
chapter of this code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and chapters of this code
since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Aldermen without the
incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Prior Code, § 100.140)
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Whenever notice may be required under the provisions of this code or other
city ordinance, the same shall be served in the following manner:
   (A)   By delivering the notice to the person to be served personally or by
leaving the same at his or her residence, office, or place of business with
some person of his or her family over the age of 15 years;
   (B)   By mailing said notice by certified or registered mail to such person
to be served at his or her last known address; or
   (C)   If the person to be served is unknown or may not be notified under the
requirements of this section, then by posting said notice in some conspicuous
place at least five days before the act or action concerning which the notice
is given is to take place. No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate,
conceal, or tear down any official notice or placard posted by any city
officer, unless permission is given by said officer.
(Prior Code, § 100.060)
§ 10.10 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of Aldermen.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Board during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into the
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words to the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections       to      “ (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.11 MAINTENANCE OF COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall keep two copies of this code.
      (2)   These copies shall be printed or otherwise mounted to withstand
heavy usage and preserved by the City Clerk in a book or binder in looseleaf
form, or in such other form as the Board of Aldermen may consider most
expedient, so that all amendments thereto and all general ordinances hereafter
passed may be inserted in their appropriate places in such volumes, and all
sections of this code or ordinances repealed from time to time may be extracted
therefrom for the purpose of maintaining the two copies in such condition that
they will show all general ordinances passed up to date at any time in such
manner that ready reference may be had thereto.
   (B)   In determining whether or not any ordinance hereafter passed, or any
part thereof, shall be inserted in such volume, and in determining the form,
chapter, article, or section which shall be taken out, if any doubt arises, the
City Clerk shall be guided by the advice of any regular or special city
counselor.
§ 10.12 ORGANIZATION OF CODE.
   The ordinances in this code are organized into titles, chapters,
subchapters, sections, and divisions, as identified in the following
definitions.
   (A)   Title. TITLE is the largest unit of organization in this code. TITLES
divide ordinances and resolutions by broad subject matter into the following
categories:
         I.   General Provisions
         III.   Administration
         V.   Public Works
         VII.   Traffic Code
         IX.   General Regulations
         XI.   Business Regulations
         XIII.   General Offenses
         XV.   Land Usage
   (B)   Chapter. A CHAPTER organizes the information that is contained within
a title.
   (C)   Subchapter. A SUBCHAPTER itemizes the information found in a chapter
by breaking it into smaller parts according to subject matter.
   (D)   Section. A SECTION is the basic unit of a code, designated by the
symbol “§”.
   (E)   Division. A DIVISION separates a section into paragraphs, designated
by letters and numbers as follows.
      (A)   First division.
         (1)   Second division.
            (a)   Third division.
               1.   Fourth division.
                  a.   Fifth division.
§ 10.13 OFFICIAL TIME.
   (A)   Designated. The city shall observe Central Standard Time in accordance
with 15 U.S.C. § 261 and 49 C.F.R. § 71 .6. The city shall observe daylight
saving time in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 260a and 49 C.F.R. § 71.2.
   (B)   Referred to in ordinances, notices, documents, and the like.
      (1)   When reference is made to any time without qualification in any
ordinance, resolution, or order heretofore passed or which may be passed
hereafter by the Board of Aldermen or in any official notice, advertisement, or
document of the city or in any contract to which the city is a party, it shall
be understood to refer to the official time of the city as described in
division (A) above.
      (2)   When the words “daylight saving time” are used, the reference shall
be to the advanced time provided by 15 U.S.C. § 260a and 49 C.F.R. § 71.2.
   (C)   Application. In all ordinances, resolutions, or orders of the Board of
Aldermen and in all official notices, advertisements, or documents of the city
and in all contracts to which the city is a party relating to the time of
performance of any act by any officer or department of the city or relating to
the time within which any rights shall accrue or determine or within which any
act shall or shall not be performed by any person, it shall be understood and
intended that the time shall be the official time of the city as prescribed in
division (A) above.
   (D)   Public timepieces. All clocks or other timepieces in or upon public
buildings or other premises maintained at the expense of the city shall be set
and run according to the official time, as provided in division (A) above. It
is hereby made the duty of the officer or other person having control and
charge of any such building and premises to see that the clocks or other
timepieces are set and run in accordance with official time.
   (E)   Computing periods of time. In computing any period of time prescribed
or allowed by this code or by a notice or order issued pursuant thereto, the
day of the act, event, or default after which the designated period of time
begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is
to be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which
event the period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a
Saturday, Sunday, nor a legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed or
allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(Prior Code, § 100.180)
§ 10.14 PUBLICATION OF CODE; EVIDENCE.
   When the code shall be printed and bound, it shall be deemed a sufficient
publication of all ordinances contained therein, and they shall be received in
evidence without further proof in all cases, suits, or proceedings had,
instituted, or prosecuted under the provisions thereof, and in pleading any
ordinance or part of ordinance in prosecutions and proceedings had by virtue of
any of the provisions thereof, it shall be sufficient to designate the number
of the section or chapter under which the action is instituted or proceedings
had.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 71.943
§ 10.15 PROSECUTION WHERE DIFFERENT PROVISIONS EXIST FOR SAME OFFENSE.
   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or shall be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the city, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
§ 10.16 HEADINGS.
   The headings of the chapters and sections of this code are intended as
guides and not as part of this code for purposes of interpretation or
construction.
(Prior Code, § 100.100)
§ 10.17 REPEALING ORDINANCE; FORMER ORDINANCE NOT REVIVED.
   When an ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision is
itself repealed, it does not revive the former ordinance, clause, or provision,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided; nor shall any ordinance repealing
any former ordinance, clause, or provision abate, annul, or in any way affect
any proceedings had or commenced under or by virtue of the ordinance so
repealed, but the same is as effectual and shall be proceeded on to final
judgment and termination as if the repealing ordinance had not passed, unless
it is otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 100.130)
§ 10.18 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever notice may be required under the provisions of this code or
other city ordinance, the same shall be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the person to be served personally or
by leaving the same at his or her residence, office, or place of business with
some person of his or her family over the age of 15 years;
      (2)   By mailing said notice by certified or registered mail to such
person to be served at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the person to be served is unknown, or may not be notified under
the requirements of this section, then by posting said notice in some
conspicuous place at least five days before the act or action concerning which
the notice is given is to take place. No person shall interfere with, obstruct,
mutilate, conceal, or tear down any official notice or placard posted by any
city officer, unless permission is given by said officer.
(Prior Code, § 100.160)
   (B)   The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply to those
chapters of this code wherein there is a separate definition of notice.
(Prior Code, § 100.170)
§ 10.99 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty provisions.
      (1)   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the city, or in any
rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the
city under authority duly vested in him or her or it, any act is prohibited or
is declared to be unlawful or an offense, misdemeanor, or ordinance violation
or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor or ordinance violation, and no
specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof, upon conviction of a
violation of any such provision of this code or of any such ordinance, rule,
regulation, notice, or order, the violator shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 or by imprisonment in the city or county jail not exceeding 90
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; provided that in any case wherein
the penalty for an offense is fixed by a statute of the state, the statutory
penalty and no other shall be imposed for such offense, except that
imprisonments may be in the city prison or workhouse instead of the county
jail.
      (2)   Every day any violation of this code or any other ordinance or any
such rule, regulation, notice, or order shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment
thereof, or by any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, such prohibition
shall extend to and include the causing, securing, aiding, or abetting of
another person to do said act. Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, an
attempt to do the act is likewise prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 100.220)
   (B)   Equitable relief. In addition to any other remedies or penalties
established for violations of any ordinance or code section, or any rule,
regulation, notice, condition, term, or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the city under duly vested authority, the city official responsible
for the enforcement of such ordinance, code section, rule, regulation, notice,
condition, term, or order may, on behalf of the city and after approval by the
Board of Aldermen, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for such legal or
equitable relief as may be necessary to enforce compliance with such ordinance,
code section, rule, regulation, notice, condition, term, or order. In such
action, the court may grant such legal or equitable relief, including, but not
limited to, mandatory or prohibitory injunctive relief, as the facts may
warrant. Upon the successful prosecution of any such action, the city may be
awarded by the court reasonable attorney fees as allowed by law.
   (C)   Restrictions on delinquent applicants.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         APPLICANT. An individual or a corporation, firm, partnership, joint
venture, association, organization, or entity of any kind, including any
shareholder, owner, officer, partner, joint venturer, or member of such entity
or any other person holding an ownership interest in such entity requesting any
city permit, license, franchise, or other approval.
         RELATED PERSON OR ENTITY.
            1.   A firm, partnership, joint venture, association, organization,
or entity of any kind in which the applicant holds any stock, title, or other
ownership interest of at least 20%;
            2.   A firm, partnership, joint venture, association, organization,
or entity of any kind which holds any stock, title, or other ownership interest
in the applicant of at least 20%; or
            3.   An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
organization, or entity of any kind, whose affairs the applicant has the legal
or practical ability to direct, either directly or indirectly, whether by
contractual agreement, majority ownership interest, any lessor ownership
interest, familial relationship, or in any other manner.
         RELEVANT LAW.
            1.   Any statute or regulation of the United States or the state;
            2.   Any ordinance or code section of the city, or any rule,
regulation, notice, condition, term, or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the city under duly vested authority of the city; or
            3.   Any final judgment or order of any court of competent
jurisdiction, when a statute, ordinance, code section, rule, regulation,
notice, condition, term, order, or judgment at issue regulates conduct or
conditions germane to the issuance of the requested permit, license, franchise,
or other approval as provided by the applicable ordinance or code section of
the city.
      (2)   In enforcing or administering the ordinances of the city, no
permit, license, franchise, or approval of any kind shall be granted to any
applicant:
         (a)   Who is charged with, or in violation of, any relevant law; or
         (b)   Who is related to or associated with a related person or entity
who is charged with, or in violation of, any relevant law, until such time as
the applicant or the related person or entity resolves the pending charge or
comes into compliance with the relevant law.
      (3)   The reviewing or enforcement officer may consider past violations
of relevant law by an applicant or a related person or entity in considering
whether to issue a permit, license, franchise, or approval requested by an
applicant.
      (4)   The reviewing or enforcement officer may refuse to accept the
refiling of a denied application for one year from the date of the denial
unless the officer finds that the application has been substantially revised,
or that substantial new facts or change in circumstances warrant reapplication.
      (5)   Any aggrieved applicant may appeal the decision of the reviewing or
enforcement officer to the Board of Aldermen within five business days of said
decision. The Board of Aldermen may reverse or modify the decision of the
reviewing or enforcement officer, provided the applicant:
         (a)   Establishes a good-faith effort to effect compliance with this
section and any relevant law or, if applicable, an inability to do so because
of the ownership structure of any pertinent related entity; or
         (b)   Establishes that the applicant has not been charged with, or is
not in violation of, any relevant law.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Municipal incorporation
   
11.02   City seal
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants of the city, as its limits now are or may hereafter be
defined by law, shall be and continue a body corporate by the name of “the City
of Pilot Grove” and as such shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be
sued, implead and be impleaded, defend and be defended in all courts of law and
equity and in all actions whatever; may receive and hold property, both real
and personal, within such city; and may purchase, receive, and hold real estate
within or without such city for the burial of the dead; and may purchase, hold,
lease, sell, or otherwise dispose of any property, real or personal, it now
owns or may hereafter acquire; may receive bequests, gifts, and donations of
all kinds of property; and may have and hold one common seal and may break,
change, or alter the same at pleasure; and may do any act, exercise any power,
and render any service which contributes to the general welfare; and all courts
of this state shall take judicial notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 100.010)
§ 11.02 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The seal of the city shall be circular in form, one and seven-eighths
inches in diameter, with the words “Cooper County, Missouri” engraved across
the face thereof, and the words “Seal of the City of Pilot Grove” engraved on
the face thereof and near the outer edge of said seal, and the same is hereby
declared to be adopted as the seal of the city.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be the keeper of the common seal of the city, and
any impression of said seal to any contract or other writing shall have no
validity or binding obligation upon the city unless such impression be
accompanied by the attestation and signature of the City Clerk, and then only
in cases authorized by law or the ordinances of this city.
(Prior Code, § 100.020)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
36.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Mayor and Board of Aldermen; Generally
   
30.01   Aldermen; qualifications
   
30.02   Mayor; qualifications
   
30.03   Board to select an acting president; term
   
30.04   Acting president to perform duties of Mayor
   
30.05   Mayor and Board; duties
   
30.06   Mayor may sit in Board
   
30.07   Ordinances; procedure to enact
   
30.08   Bills must be signed; Mayor’s veto
   
30.09   Board to keep journal of proceedings
   
30.10   Board shall publish semi-annual statements
   
30.11   No money of city to be disbursed until statement is published
   
30.12   Board may compel attendance of witnesses; Mayor to administer oaths
   
30.13   Mayor to sign commissions
   
30.14   Mayor shall have the power to enforce laws
   
30.15   Mayor communications to Board
   
30.16   Mayor may remit fine; grant pardon
Board of Aldermen Meetings
   
30.30   Regular meetings
   
30.31   Special meetings
   
30.32   Quorum must be present
   
30.33   Rules of order
MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN; GENERALLY
§ 30.01 ALDERMEN; QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be an Alderman unless he or she be at least 21 years of age,
a citizen of the United States, and an inhabitant and resident of the city for
one year next preceding his or her election, and a resident, at the time he or
she files and during the time he or she serves, of the ward from which he or
she is elected.
(Prior Code, § 110.010)
§ 30.02 MAYOR; QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be Mayor unless he or she be at least 25 years of age, a
citizen of the United States, and a resident of the city at the time of and for
at least one year next preceding his or her election.
(Prior Code, § 110.020)
§ 30.03 BOARD TO SELECT AN ACTING PRESIDENT; TERM.
   The Board shall elect one of their own number who shall be styled “Acting
President of the Board of Aldermen” and who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 110.030)
§ 30.04 ACTING PRESIDENT TO PERFORM DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   When any vacancy shall happen in the office of Mayor by death, resignation,
removal from the city, removal from office, refusal to qualify, or from any
other cause whatever, the Acting President of the Board of Aldermen shall, for
the time being, perform the duties of Mayor, with all the rights, privileges,
powers, and jurisdiction of the Mayor, until such vacancy be filled or such
disability be removed; or, in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor’s
return.
(Prior Code, § 110.040)
§ 30.05 MAYOR AND BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of each city governed by this chapter
shall have the care, management, and control of the city and its finances, and
shall have power to enact and ordain any and all ordinances not repugnant to
the constitution and laws of this state, and such as they shall deem expedient
for the good government of the city, the preservation of peace and good order,
the benefit of trade and commerce, and the health of the inhabitants thereof,
and such other ordinances, rules, and regulations as may be deemed necessary to
carry such powers into effect, and to alter, modify, or repeal the same.
   (B)   In addition to all other duties provided for herein, the Mayor may, by
vote of the Board, also be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the
city, the supervising and scheduling of city employees, the supervision of all
city maintenance problems, the submission of long-range planning to the Board
of Aldermen for approval, and other duties as assigned by the Board of
Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 110.050)
§ 30.06 MAYOR MAY SIT IN BOARD.
   The Mayor shall have a seat in and preside over the Board of Aldermen but
shall not vote on any question except in case of a tie, nor shall he or she
preside or vote in cases when he or she is an interested party. He or she shall
exercise a general supervision over all the officers and affairs of the city
and shall take care that the ordinances of the city, and the state laws
relating to such city, are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 110.060)
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES; PROCEDURE TO ENACT.
   The style of the ordinances of the city shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Board of Aldermen of the City of Pilot Grove, as follows:” No ordinance shall
be passed except by bill, and no bill shall become an ordinance, unless on its
final passage a majority of the members elected to the Board of Aldermen shall
vote for it, and the “ayes” and “nays” be entered on the journal. Every
proposed ordinance shall be introduced to the Board of Aldermen, in writing,
and shall be read by title or in full two times prior to passage, both readings
may occur at a single meeting of the Board of Aldermen. If the proposed
ordinance is read by title only, copies of the proposed ordinance shall be made
available for public inspection prior to the time the bill is under
consideration by the Board of Aldermen. No bill shall become an ordinance until
it shall have been signed by the Mayor, or person exercising the duties of the
Mayor’s office, or shall have been passed over the Mayor’s veto, as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.070)
§ 30.08 BILLS MUST BE SIGNED; MAYOR’S VETO.
   Every bill duly passed by the Board of Aldermen and presented to the Mayor
and by him or her approved shall become an ordinance, and every bill presented
as aforesaid, but returned with the Mayor’s objections thereto, shall stand
reconsidered. The Board of Aldermen shall cause the objections of the Mayor to
be entered at large upon the journal and proceed at its convenience to consider
the question pending, which shall be in this form: “Shall the bill pass, the
objections of the Mayor thereto notwithstanding?” The vote on this question
shall be taken by “ayes” and “nays” and the names entered upon the journal,
and, if two-thirds of all the members-elect shall vote in the affirmative, the
City Clerk shall certify the fact on the roll, and the bill thus certified
shall be deposited with the proper officer and shall become an ordinance in the
same manner and with like effect as if it had received the approval of the
Mayor. The Mayor shall have power to sign or veto any ordinance passed by the
Board of Aldermen, provided that should he or she neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance and return the same with his or her objections, in writing, at the
next regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen, the same shall become a law
without his or her signature.
(Prior Code, § 110.080)
§ 30.09 BOARD TO KEEP JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall cause to be kept a journal of its proceedings,
and the “ayes” and “nays” shall be entered on any question at the request of
any two members. The Board of Aldermen may prescribe and enforce such rules as
it may find necessary for the expeditious transaction of its business.
(Prior Code, § 110.090)
§ 30.10 BOARD SHALL PUBLISH SEMI-ANNUAL STATEMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall, semi-annually each year, at times to be set by
the Board of Aldermen, make out and spread upon their records a full and
detailed account and statement of the receipts and expenditures and
indebtedness of the city for the half year ending with the last day of the
month immediately preceding the date of such report, which account and
statement shall be published in some newspaper in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.100)
§ 30.11 NO MONEY OF CITY TO BE DISBURSED UNTIL STATEMENT IS PUBLISHED.
   In the event the financial statement of the city is not published as
required by §
30.10, the Treasurer of the city shall not pay out any money of the city on any
warrant or order of the Board of Aldermen after the end of the month in which
such financial statement should have been published until such time as such
financial statement is published. Any treasurer violating the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 110.110)
§ 30.12 BOARD MAY COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES; MAYOR TO ADMINISTER OATHS.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall have power to compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of papers and records relating to any subject
under consideration in which the interest of the city is involved and shall
have power to call on the proper officers of the city, or of the county in
which such city is located, to execute such process.
   (B)   The officer making such service shall be allowed to receive therefor
such fees as are allowed by law in the Circuit Court for similar services, to
be paid by the city.
   (C)   The Mayor or Acting President of the Board of Aldermen shall have
power to administer oaths to witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 110.120)
§ 30.13 MAYOR TO SIGN COMMISSIONS.
   The Mayor shall sign the commissions and appointments of all city officers
elected or appointed in the city and shall approve all official bonds unless
otherwise prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 110.130)
§ 30.14 MAYOR SHALL HAVE THE POWERS TO ENFORCE LAWS.
   The Mayor shall be active and vigilant in enforcing all laws and ordinances
for the government of the city, and he or she shall cause all subordinate
officers to be dealt with promptly for any neglect or violation of duty; and he
or she is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the city over
18 years of age and under 50 to aid in enforcing the laws.
(Prior Code, § 110.140)
§ 30.15 MAYOR COMMUNICATIONS TO BOARD.
   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the Board of Aldermen
such measures as may, in his or her opinion, tend to the improvement of the
finances, the police, health, security, ornament, comfort, and general
prosperity of the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.150)
§ 30.16 MAYOR MAY REMIT FINE; GRANT PARDON.
   The Mayor shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures and to grant
reprieves and pardons for offenses arising under the ordinances of the city;
but this section shall not be so construed as to authorize the Mayor to remit
any costs which may have accrued to any officer of said city by reason of any
prosecution under the laws or ordinances of such city.
(Prior Code, § 110.160)
BOARD OF ALDERMEN MEETINGS
§ 30.30 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Board of Aldermen shall be held on the first Monday
evening of each month.
(Prior Code, § 110.170)
§ 30.31 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any three members of the
Board by written request filed with the City Clerk, who shall thereupon prepare
a notice of such special meeting in conformance with §§
31.40 through
31.52.
(Prior Code, § 110.180)
§ 30.32 QUORUM MUST BE PRESENT.
   At the hour appointed, the Mayor or, in his or her absence, the Acting
President of the Board of Aldermen shall call the Board to order, the Clerk
shall call the roll of members and announce whether or not a quorum is present.
Three of the Aldermen shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is not present, a
smaller number may lawfully adjourn the meeting from day to day until a quorum
is present.
(Prior Code, § 110.190)
§ 30.33 RULES OF ORDER.
   The following rules and order of business for the government of the
deliberations of the Board of Aldermen be and the same are hereby adopted.
   (A)   Rule I. Notice of special meetings shall be served by the Chief of
Police on each Alderman personally or by leaving the same at his or her usual
place of business or abode. The Chief of Police shall have charge of the room
and be in attendance at all meetings of the Board.
   (B)   Rule II. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Clerk, or someone
appointed to supply his or her absence, shall proceed to call the roll of the
members, marking the absentees, and announce whether a quorum be present. Upon
the appearance of a quorum, the Board shall be called to order, the Mayor
taking the chair, if present, and the Board electing a president if the Mayor
is absent. The Board shall then proceed to transact the business before them
which shall be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of the last meeting
or meetings; but the reading of the minutes of any preceding adjourned meeting
shall not be in order at any adjournment of the same meeting, unless the
reading of such minutes is called for by two members of the Board. The minutes
shall then be amended or approved;
      (2)   The presentation of communications, petitions, complaints,
accounts, and the reports of officers;
      (3)   The reports of standing committees;
      (4)   Reports of select committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business of previous meetings;
      (6)   Motions, resolutions, and notices; and
      (7)   Introduction of bills.
   (C)   Rule III. All questions relating to the priority of business shall be
decided by the Mayor without debate.
   (D)   Rule IV. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide
all questions of order subject to an appeal to the Board.
   (E)   Rule V. While the Mayor is putting the question, no member shall
engage in conversation, walk across the floor, or leave the room.
   (F)   Rule VI. When the Board adjourns, the members shall keep their seats
until the Mayor shall have left the chair.
   (G)   Rule VII. Every member, previous to his or her speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer
but shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
Mayor.
   (H)   Rule VIII. When two or more members rise to speak at once, the Mayor
shall name the one who is to speak first.
   (I)   Rule IX. While a member is speaking, no member shall entertain any
private discourse or pass between him or her and the chair.
   (J)   Rule X. A member called to order shall immediately sit down, unless
permitted to explain. If there is no appeal, the decision of the Mayor shall be
conclusive, but if the member appeals to the Board from the decision of the
Mayor, the Board shall decide the case without debate.
   (K)   Rule XI. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or unless he or
she is directly interested in the question, in which case he or she shall not
vote.
   (L)   Rule XII. No motion shall be debated or put unless it is seconded.
When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before debate and
every such motion shall be reduced to writing if required by any member.
   (M)   Rule XIII. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be
received, unless for the “previous question”, to postpone indefinitely, to
adjourn it to a certain day, to lay it on the table, to amend it, or to adjourn
the Board.
   (N)   Rule XIV. A motion for the previous question, to lay the question on
the table, or to commit it until it is decided shall preclude all amendments
and debate on the main question, and a motion to postpone a question
indefinitely, or to adjourn it to a certain day, shall, until it is decided,
preclude all amendments to the main question.
   (O)   Rule XV. A motion to adjourn the Board shall always be in order;
except, first, when a member has the floor; second, while the “yeas” and “nays”
are being called; third, while the members are voting; fourth, when adjournment
was the last preceding motion; or fifth, when it has been decided that the
previous question shall be taken.
   (Q)   Rule XVI. In all cases where a resolution or motion shall be entered
on the minutes of the Board, the name of the member moving the same shall also
be entered on the minutes.
   (R)   Rule XVII. If any member requires, the “ayes” and “nays” upon any
question shall be taken and entered on the minutes; but the “ayes” and “nays”
shall not be taken unless called for previous to any vote on the question,
except that the “ayes” and “nays” shall always be taken and entered upon the
minutes after the third reading, on the question of the passage of any bill
proposed as an ordinance.
   (S)   Rule XVIII. All committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, unless
otherwise specially directed by the Board, in which case they shall be
appointed by the Board.
   (T)   Rule XIX. All bills, claims, and accounts against the city shall be
presented to the Board.
   (U)   Rule XX. These rules may be temporarily suspended by unanimous consent
of all members present but shall not be repealed, altered, or amended unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of the members of the Board.
   (V)   Rule XXI. The rules of the Board shall be observed on the committee of
the whole, except that the previous question shall not be put and that some
member of the Board shall preside instead of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 110.200)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Conflict of interest policy and procedures
   
31.02   Elective officers; terms
   
31.03   Appointive officers
   
31.04   Removal of officers
   
31.05   Officers to be voters and residents; exception
   
31.06   Officers’ oath; bond
   
31.07   Salaries fixed by ordinance
   
31.08   Vacancies in certain offices; how filled
   
31.09   Powers and duties of officers to be prescribed by ordinance
   
31.10   Officers to report receipts and expenditures
   
31.11   Mayor or Board may inspect books and records of officers
Officials
   
31.25   City Clerk; election; duties
   
31.26   City Collector; duties
   
31.27   Deputy Collector
   
31.28   City Attorney; qualifications
Open Meetings and Records Policy
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Meetings, records, and votes to be public; exceptions
   
31.42   Records pertaining to internal investigations and investigations of
allegedly illegal conduct
   
31.43   Records pertaining to medical condition or history
   
31.44   Records containing confidential, proprietary, or private information
   
31.45   Notice of meetings
   
31.46   Closed meetings; how held
   
31.47   Journals of meetings and records of voting
   
31.48   Accessibility of meetings
   
31.49   Segregation of exempt material
   
31.50   Custodian designated; response to request for access to records
   
31.51   Procedures for resolving questions of public accessibility
   
31.52   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The standard of behavior for the elected officials of the city is that
all elected officials and staff of the city scrupulously avoid conflict of
interest between the interest of the city, and their personal, professional,
and business interest. This includes avoiding potential and actual conflict of
interest. The purpose of this policy is to protect the integrity of the city’s
decision-making process, to enable our constituencies to have confidence in our
honor, and to provide a mechanism to safeguard the honesty and reputations of
the elected officials and staff.
   (B)   No person shall serve as an elected official or be staffed by the city
who is a stockholder, officer, agent, attorney, or employee are who is in any
way interested in any business could appear to be or actually in conflict with
the city government.
   (C)   Additionally, whenever any elected official or staff of the city
becomes aware of an actual or possible conflict of interest, such member or
person shall immediately disclose same to the Mayor and shall not participate
during the discussion of, or vote on, any action to be taken by the city in
connection with any transaction that may involve such actual or possible
conflict of interest. Such disclosure, if made during a Council meeting, shall
be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
   (D)   Also, during the course of meetings or activities, elected officials
and staff will disclose any interest in a transaction or decision where family
and/or significant others, employers, or close associates will receive a
benefit or gain. After disclosure, the individual(s) will be asked to leave the
room for discussion and will not be permitted to vote on the question. Such
recusal, due to a conflict or potential conflict of interest, shall be recorded
in the minutes of the meeting.
(Ord. 84, passed 2-2-2015)
§ 31.02 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; TERMS.
   (A)   The following officers shall be elected by the qualified voters of the
city and shall hold office for the term of two years, except as otherwise
provided in this section, and until their successors are elected and qualified:
      (1)   Mayor; and
      (2)   Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 115.010)
   (B)   See Ordinance 107, dated January 4, 2021, as it pertains to whether or
not to forgo annual municipal elections for the next six years if the number of
candidates filing equal the number of seats up for election, in accordance with
RSMo. § 115.124. Voter election results approving this ordinance is attached,
as follows:
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk and all other officers of the municipality are
hereby authorized and directed to authorize the appropriate election officer of
the state to issue the necessary lawful notices and prepare the appropriate
ballots in order to submit the provisions of this Ordinance No. 107 to the
voters of the municipality for their approval or rejection at an election to be
held thereby on April 6, 2021.
         (a)   The ballot language shall be as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34abecb20d60bc49ec05ab2924f665d23862a77d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1708.jpg]
         (b)   The voters who desires to vote in favor of said question for the
office to be filled by the election question shall pass a cross mark (X) in the
space opposite the word “YES” (or in case of the use of voting machines shall
pull the lever so as to place a cross mark (X) in such place opposite said
word). The voters who desires to vote against said question shall place a cross
mark (X) in the space opposite the word “NO” (or in the case of voting machines
shall pull the lever so as to place a cross in such space opposite said word).
      (2)   If the majority of the votes cast by the qualified voters are in
favor of the question, then the municipality shall conduct nonpartisan
municipal elections remaining in the year in which the proposal was adopted and
for the six calendar years immediately following such approval. At the end of
said six-year period, the municipality shall be prohibited from conducting
elections in such a manner unless another election is held and the issue is
again approved by the qualified voters.
      (3)   If no election is held for such office as provided for in this
section, the election authority shall publish a notice containing the names of
the candidates that shall assume the responsibilities of the office under this
section. Such notice shall be published in at least one newspaper of general
circulation as defined in RSMo. § 493.050 by the first of the month in which
the election would have occurred, had it been contested.
      (4)   If any section, subsection, sentience, clause, phrase, or portion
of this section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
or competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent provisions, and such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions hereof.
      (5)   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and approval, subject to voter approval as herein above set forth.
   (C)   Qualified voters may forgo annual municipal elections for six years
through 2027 when the number of candidates filing equal the same number of
positions to be filled.
(Prior Code, § 115.100)
(Ord. 107, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 31.03 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of the majority of the members of
the Board of Aldermen, shall have power to appoint a Chief of Police, City
Collector, City Treasurer, City Attorney, and Street Commissioner and such
other officers as he or she may be authorized by ordinance to appoint, and, if
deemed for the best interests of the city, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen may,
by ordinance, employ special counsel to represent the city, either in a case of
a vacancy in the office of City Attorney or to assist the City Attorney, and
pay reasonable compensation therefor.
(Prior Code, § 115.020)
§ 31.04 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor may, with the consent of a majority of all the members
elected to the Board of Aldermen, remove from office, for cause shown, any
elective officer of the city, such officer being first given opportunity,
together with his or her witnesses, to be heard before the Board of Aldermen
sitting as a Board of Impeachment. Any elective officer, including the Mayor,
may, in like manner, for cause shown, be removed from office by a two-thirds
vote of all members elected to the Board of Aldermen, independently of the
Mayor’s approval or recommendation.
   (B)   The Mayor may, with the consent of a majority of all the members
elected to the Board of Aldermen, remove from office any appointive officer of
the city at will, and any such appointive officer may be so removed by a two-
thirds vote of all the members elected to the Board of Aldermen, independently
of the Mayor’s approval or recommendation. The Board of Aldermen may pass
ordinances regulating the manner of impeachments and removals.
(Prior Code, § 115.030)
§ 31.05 OFFICERS TO BE VOTERS AND RESIDENTS; EXCEPTION.
   All officers elected to offices or appointed to fill a vacancy in any
elective office under the city government shall be voters under the laws and
Constitution of this state and the ordinances of the city except that appointed
officers need not be voters of the city. No person shall be elected or
appointed to any office who shall, at the time, be in arrears for any unpaid
city taxes, or forfeiture or defalcation in office. All officers, except
appointed officers, shall be residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.040)
§ 31.06 OFFICERS’ OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Every officer of the city and his or her assistants, and every
Alderman, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and
subscribe to an oath or affirmation before some court of record in the county,
or the City Clerk, that he or she possesses all the qualifications prescribed
for his or her office by law; that he or she will support the Constitution of
the United States and of the state, the provisions of all laws of this state
affecting cities of this class, and the ordinances of the city, and faithfully
demean himself or herself while in office; which official oath or affirmation
shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Every officer of the city, when required by law or ordinance, shall,
within 15 days after his or her appointment or election, and before entering
upon the discharge of the duties of his or her office, give bond to the city in
such sum and with such sureties as may be designated by ordinance, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his or her duty, and that he or she will pay
over all monies belonging to the city, as provided by law, that may come into
his or her hands.
   (C)   If any person elected or appointed to any office shall fail to take
and subscribe such oath or affirmation, or to give bond as herein required, his
or her office shall be deemed vacant. For any breach of condition of any such
bond, suit may be instituted thereon by the city, or by any person in the name
of the city, to the use of such person.
(Prior Code, § 115.050)
§ 31.07 SALARIES FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall fix the compensation of all the officers
and employees of the city by ordinance.
   (B)   The salary of an officer shall not be changed during the time for
which he or she was elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 115.060)
§ 31.08 VACANCIES IN CERTAIN OFFICES; HOW FILLED.
   (A)   lf a vacancy occurs in any elective office, the Mayor or the person
exercising the duties of the Mayor shall cause a special meeting of the Board
of Aldermen to convene where a successor to the vacant office shall be selected
by appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of a majority of the
remaining members of the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   (1)   If the vacancy is in the office of Mayor, nominations of a
successor may be made by any member of the Board of Aldermen and selected with
the consent of a majority of the members of the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   The Board of Aldermen may adopt procedures to fill vacancies
consistent with this section. The successor shall serve until the next regular
municipal election.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs in any office not elective, the Mayor shall
appoint a suitable person to discharge the duties of such office until the
first regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen thereafter, at which time such
vacancy shall be permanently filled.
(RSMo. Chapter 79.280)
(Prior Code, § 115.070)
Statutory Reference:
   Related provisions, see RSMo. Chapter 79.280
§ 31.09 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS TO BE PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The duties, powers, and privileges of officers of every character in
any way connected with the city government, not herein defined, shall be
prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   Bonds may be required of any such officers for faithfulness in office
in all respects.
(Prior Code, § 115.080)
§ 31.10 OFFICERS TO REPORT RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
   It shall be the duty of all the officers of the city to report annually to
the Board of Aldermen such reports to embrace a full statement of the receipts
and expenditures of their respective offices and such other matters as may be
required by the Board of Aldermen by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 115.140)
§ 31.11 MAYOR OR BOARD MAY INSPECT BOOKS AND RECORDS OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor or Board of Aldermen shall have power, as often as he or she or
they may deem it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
or her accounts or other papers or records and to make report to the Board of
Aldermen, in writing, touching any matter relating to his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 115.150)
OFFICIALS
§ 31.25 CITY CLERK; ELECTION; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Aldermen shall elect a Clerk for such Board, to be
known as “the City Clerk”, whose duties and term of office shall be fixed by
ordinance.
      (2)   Among other things, the City Clerk shall keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   He or she shall safely and properly keep all the records and papers
belonging to the city which may be entrusted to his or her care; he or she
shall be the general accountant of the city; he or she is hereby empowered to
administer official oaths and oaths to persons certifying to demands or claims
against the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.090)
§ 31.26 CITY COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Collector shall perform all the duties specified in this code and shall
perform such other duties as may be directed by the City Clerk and/or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 115.100)
§ 31.27 DEPUTY COLLECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Deputy Collector to be approved by the Board of
Aldermen, and when such Deputy Collector shall have taken and subscribed to the
oath provided by this code, he or she shall possess all the qualifications and
powers and be charged with the same duties as the Collector.
(Prior Code, § 115.120)
§ 31.28 CITY ATTORNEY; QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be appointed to the office of City Attorney unless he or she
be a licensed and practicing attorney at law in this state.
(Prior Code, § 115.130)
OPEN MEETINGS AND RECORDS POLICY
§ 31.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSED MEETING, CLOSED RECORD, or CLOSED VOTE. Any meeting, record, or vote
closed to the public.
   COPYING. If requested by a member of the public, copies provided in accord
with the cost schedule established by this subchapter, if duplication equipment
is available.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS. All matters which relate in any way to performance of the
city’s functions or the conduct of its business.
   PUBLIC GOVERNMENTAL BODY. Any legislative, administrative, or governmental
entity created by the Constitution or statutes of this state, orders or
ordinances of the city, judicial entities when operating in an administrative
capacity, or by executive order, including:
      (1)   Any advisory committee or commission appointed by the Mayor or
Board of Aldermen;
      (2)   Any department or division of the city;
      (3)   Any other legislative or administrative governmental deliberative
body under the direction of three or more elected or appointed members having
rulemaking or quasi-judicial power;
      (4)   Any committee appointed by or at the direction of any of the
entities and which is authorized to report to any of the above-named entities,
any advisory committee appointed by or at the direction of any of the named
entities for the specific purpose of recommending, directly to the public
governmental body’s governing board or its Chief Administrative Officer, policy
or policy revisions or expenditures of public funds; and
      (5)   Any quasi-public governmental body. The term QUASI-PUBLIC
GOVERNMENTAL BODY means any person, corporation, or partnership organized or
authorized to do business in this state pursuant to the provisions of RSMo.
Chapters 352, 353, or 355, or unincorporated association which either:
         (a)   Has as its primary purpose to enter into contracts with public
governmental bodies, or to engage primarily in activities carried out pursuant
to an agreement or agreements with public governmental bodies; or
         (b)   Performs a public function, as evidenced by a statutorily or
ordinance-based capacity, to confer or otherwise advance, through approval,
recommendation, or other means, the allocation or issuance of tax credits, tax
abatement, public debt, tax exempt debt, rights of eminent domain, or the
contracting of lease-back agreements on structures whose annualized payments
commit public tax revenues; or any association that directly accepts the
appropriation of money from the city, but only to the extent that a meeting,
record, or vote relates to such appropriation.
   PUBLIC MEETING. Any meeting of a public governmental body subject to this
subchapter at which any public business is discussed, decided, or public policy
formulated, whether corporeal or by means of communication equipment. The term
PUBLIC MEETING shall not include an informal gathering of members of a public
governmental body for ministerial or social purposes when there is no intent to
avoid the purposes of this subchapter, but the term shall include a vote of all
or a majority of the members of a public governmental body, by electronic
communication or any other means, conducted in lieu of holding a public meeting
with the members of the public governmental body gathered at one location in
order to conduct public business.
   PUBLIC RECORD. Any record, whether written or electronically stored,
retained by or of any public governmental body including any report, survey,
memorandum, or other document or study prepared and presented to the public
governmental body by a consultant or other professional service paid for in
whole or in part by public funds. The term PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any
internal memorandum or letter received or prepared by or on behalf of a member
of a public governmental body consisting of advice, opinions, and
recommendations in connection with the deliberative decision-making process of
said body, unless such records are retained by the public governmental body or
presented at a public meeting.
   PUBLIC VOTE. Any vote cast at any public meeting of any public governmental
body.
(Prior Code, § 120.010)
§ 31.41 MEETINGS, RECORDS, AND VOTES TO BE PUBLIC; EXCEPTIONS.
   All meetings, records, and votes are open to the public, except that any
meeting, record, or vote relating to one or more of the following matters, as
well as other materials designated elsewhere in this subchapter, shall be
closed unless the public governmental body votes to make them public:
   (A)   Legal actions, causes of action, or litigation involving a public
governmental body and any confidential or privileged communications between a
public governmental body or its representatives and its attorneys. However, any
minutes, vote, or settlement agreement relating to legal actions, causes of
action, or litigation involving a public governmental body or any agent or
entity representing its interests or acting on its behalf or with its
authority, including any insurance company acting on behalf of a public
governmental body as its insured, shall be made public upon final disposition
of the matter voted upon or upon the signing by the parties of the settlement
agreement, unless, prior to final disposition, the settlement agreement is
ordered closed by a court after a written finding that the adverse impact to a
plaintiff or plaintiffs to the action clearly outweighs the public policy
considerations of RSMo. § 610.011; however, the amount of any monies paid by,
or on behalf of, the public governmental body shall be disclosed; provided
however, in matters involving the exercise of the power of eminent domain, the
vote shall be announced or become public immediately following the action on
the motion to authorize institution of such a legal action. Legal work product
shall be considered a closed record;
   (B)   Leasing, purchase, or sale of real estate by a public governmental
body where public knowledge of the transaction might adversely affect the legal
consideration therefor. However, any minutes or vote or public record approving
a contract relating to the leasing, purchase, or sale of real estate by a
public governmental body shall be made public within 72 hours after execution
of the lease, purchase, or sale of the real estate;
   (C)   Hiring, firing, disciplining, or promoting of particular employees by
a public governmental body when personal information about the employee is
discussed or recorded. However, any vote on a final decision, when taken by a
public governmental body, to hire, fire, promote, or discipline an employee of
a public governmental body must be made available with a record of how each
member voted to the public within 72 hours of the close of the meeting where
such action occurs; provided however, that any employee so affected shall be
entitled to prompt notice of such decision during the 72-hour period before
such decision is made available to the public. As used in this division (C),
the term PERSONAL INFORMATION means information relating to the performance or
merit of individual employees;
   (D)   Non-judicial mental or physical health proceedings involving an
identifiable person, including medical, psychiatric, psychological, or
alcoholism or drug dependency diagnosis or treatment;
   (E)   Testing and examination materials, before the test or examination is
given or, if it is to be given again, before so given again;
   (F)   Welfare cases of identifiable individuals;
   (G)   Preparation, including any discussions or work product, on behalf of a
public governmental body or its representatives for negotiations with employee
groups;
   (H)   Software codes for electronic data processing and documentation
thereof;
   (I)   Specifications for competitive bidding, until either the
specifications are officially approved by the public governmental body or the
specifications are published for bid;
   (J)   Sealed bids and related documents, until the bids are opened; and
sealed proposals and related documents or any documents related to a negotiated
contract until a contract is executed, or all proposals are rejected;
   (K)   Individually identifiable personnel records, performance ratings, or
records pertaining to employees or applicants for employment, except that this
exemption shall not apply to the names, positions, salaries, and lengths of
service of officers and employees of public agencies once they are employed as
such;
   (L)   Records which are protected from disclosure by law;
   (M)   Meetings and public records relating to scientific and technological
innovations in which the owner has a proprietary interest;
   (N)   Records relating to municipal hotlines established for the reporting
of abuse and wrongdoing;
   (O)   Confidential or privileged communications between a public
governmental body and its auditor, including all auditor work product;
   (P)   A municipal utility receiving a public records request for information
about existing or proposed security systems and structural plans of real
property owned or leased by the municipal utility, the public disclosure of
which would threaten public safety, shall, within three business days, act upon
such public records request, pursuant to RSMo. § 610.023. Records related to
the procurement of or expenditures relating to security systems shall be open
except to the extent provided in this section;
   (Q)   Records that identify the configuration of components or the operation
of a computer, computer system, computer network, or telecommunications network
and would allow unauthorized access to or unlawful disruption of a computer,
computer system, computer network, or telecommunications network of a public
governmental body. This exception shall not be used to limit or deny access to
otherwise public records in a file, document, data file, or database containing
public records. Records related to the procurement of or expenditures relating
to such computer, computer system, computer network, or telecommunications
network, including the amount of monies paid by, or on behalf of, a public
governmental body for such computer, computer system, computer network, or
telecommunications network, shall be open except to the extent provided in this
section; and
   (R)   Credit card numbers, personal identification numbers, digital
certificates, physical and virtual keys, access codes, or authorization codes
that are used to protect the security of electronic transactions between a
public governmental body and a person or entity doing business with a public
governmental body. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to close the record
of a person or entity using a credit card held in the name of a public
governmental body or any record of a transaction made by a person using a
credit card or other method of payment for which reimbursement is made by a
public governmental body.
(Prior Code, § 120.020)
§ 31.42 RECORDS PERTAINING TO INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS OF
ALLEGEDLY ILLEGAL CONDUCT.
   In order to allow the fullest cooperation by employees and members of the
public in investigation of matters wherein an employee of the city is alleged
to have engaged in any form of misconduct, all files, records, and documents
relating to investigations of allegations of misconduct by city employees will
be considered to be personnel records and shall be closed records under the
custody of the respective department head.
(Prior Code, § 120.030)
§ 31.43 RECORDS PERTAINING TO MEDICAL CONDITION OR HISTORY.
   All information obtained by the city regarding medical examinations, medical
condition, or medical history of city employees or job applicants, if retained
by the city, shall be collected and maintained on separate forms and in
separate medical files and shall be treated as closed and confidential records,
except that:
   (A)   Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding necessary
restrictions on the work duties of employees and necessary accommodations;
   (B)   First aid and safety personnel may be informed, when appropriate, if
the information reflects the existence of a disability which might require
emergency treatment; or
   (C)   Government officials investigating compliance with state or federal
law pertaining to treatment of persons with disabilities may be allowed access
to such records.
(Prior Code, § 120.040)
§ 31.44 RECORDS CONTAINING CONFIDENTIAL, PROPRIETARY, OR PRIVATE INFORMATION.
   (A)   In order to protect reasonable expectations of privacy on the part of
persons having dealings with the city, city records containing information or
entries of a personal, confidential, private, or proprietary nature including,
but not limited to, income, sales data, financial circumstances, household and
family relationships, social security numbers, dates of birth, insurance
information, and other information which reasonable persons generally regard as
private and not a customary subject for public discourse, which information or
entries have been provided to the city by one complying with regulations
requiring the disclosure of such information, shall be excised from copies of
city records disclosed or provided to members of the public other than those
persons to whom the information of entries pertain. Persons desiring access to
information or entries excised from such records may file a supplementary
written request with the City Clerk for disclosure of material to be specified
in the request, which request should state:
      (1)   Whether or not the requesting party has informed persons to whom
the requested information pertains of the request; and
      (2)   All reasons why the requesting party believes disclosure by the
city of the specified information is in the public interest.
   (B)   The City Clerk may afford all interested parties, including the
persons to whom the information pertains, a reasonable time within which to
comment on the requested disclosure prior to acting further on the request. If
an interested person objects to the disclosure of the requested information,
the City Clerk may conduct a hearing at which all interested parties may be
heard. At such hearing the Clerk shall consider, among such other factors as
may be reasonable and relevant:
      (1)   The requirements and intent of state law, city ordinances, and this
policy;
      (2)   The legitimate expectations of privacy on the part of interested
parties;
      (3)   The personal, confidential, private, or proprietary nature of the
information at issue;
      (4)   Whether the information was obtained by the city under compulsion
of law or was freely and voluntarily provided by the persons objecting to the
disclosure; and
      (5)   The public purposes to be served by disclosure of the requested
information.
   (C)   If the City Clerk determines that disclosure is legally required or
would otherwise serve the best interests of the public and that such
requirements or purpose outweigh the legitimate concerns or interest of the
persons to whom the information pertains, the Clerk shall provide the requested
information to the requesting party.
   (D)   In addition to or in lieu of the hearing described above, the City
Clerk may afford all interested parties a reasonable opportunity to seek
judicial review of or relief from the proposed disclosure. The City Clerk may
also utilize the procedures for judicial determination and/or opinion
solicitation provided in §
31.51.
(Prior Code, § 120.050)
§ 31.45 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public governmental bodies shall give notice of the time, date,
and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda in a manner reasonably
calculated to advise the public of the matters to be considered. Reasonable
notice shall include making available copies of the notice to any
representative of the news media who requests notice of meetings of a
particular public governmental body concurrent with the notice being made
available to the members of the particular governmental body and posting the
notice on the appropriate bulletin board at the City Hall.
   (B)   Notice conforming with all of the requirements of division (A) above
shall be given at least 24 hours, exclusive of weekends and holidays when City
Hall is closed, prior to the commencement of any meeting of a governmental body
unless for good cause such notice is impossible or impractical, in which case,
as much notice as is reasonably possible shall be given.
   (C)   Each governmental body proposing to hold a closed meeting or vote
shall give notice of the time, date, and place of such closed meeting or vote
and the reason for holding it by reference to a specific exception allowed
pursuant to §
31.41. The notice shall be the same as described in division (A) above.
   (D)   A formally constituted subunit of a parent governmental body may
conduct a meeting without notice during a lawful meeting of the parent
governmental body, a recess in that meeting, or immediately following that
meeting, if the meeting of the subunit is publicly announced at the parent
meeting and the subject of the meeting reasonably coincides with the subjects
discussed or acted upon by the parent governmental body.
(Prior Code, § 120.060)
§ 31.46 CLOSED MEETINGS; HOW HELD.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
31.45(C), no meeting or vote may be closed without an affirmative public vote
of the majority of a quorum of the public governmental body. The vote of each
member of the governmental body on the question of closing a public meeting or
vote and the specific reason for closing that public meeting or vote by
reference to a specific section of this subchapter shall be announced publicly
at an open meeting of the governmental body and entered into the minutes.
   (B)   Any meeting or vote closed pursuant to §
31.41 shall be closed only to the extent necessary for the specific reason
announced to justify the closed meeting or vote. Public governmental bodies
shall not discuss any business in a closed meeting, record, or vote. Public
governmental bodies holding a closed meeting must close only an existing
portion of the meeting facility necessary to house the members of the public
governmental body in the closed session, allowing members of the public to
remain to attend any subsequent open session held by the public governmental
body following the closed session.
(Prior Code, § 120.070)
§ 31.47 JOURNALS OF MEETINGS AND RECORDS OF VOTING.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
31.41, rules authorized pursuant to Article III of the Missouri Constitution
and, as otherwise provided by law, all votes shall be recorded, and if a roll
call is taken, as to attribute each “yea” and “nay” vote, or abstinence if not
voting, to the name of the individual member of the public governmental body.
Any votes taken during a closed meeting shall be taken by roll call. All public
meetings shall be open to the public and public votes and public records shall
be open to the public for inspection and duplication.
   (B)   A journal or minutes of open meetings shall be taken and retained by
the public governmental body including, but not limited to, a record of any
vote taken at such meeting. The minutes shall include the date, time, place,
members present, members absent, and a record of votes taken. When a roll call
vote is taken, the minutes shall attribute each “yea” and “nay” vote, or
abstinence if not voting, to the name of the individual member of the public
governmental body.
(Prior Code, § 120.080)
§ 31.48 ACCESSIBILITY OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Each meeting shall be held at a place reasonably accessible to the
public and of sufficient size to accommodate the anticipated attendance by
members of the public, and at a time reasonably convenient to the public,
unless for good cause such a place or time is impossible or impractical. At any
public meeting conducted by telephone or other electronic means, the public
shall be allowed to observe and attend the public meeting at a designated
location identified in the notice of the meeting. Every reasonable effort shall
be made to grant special access to the meeting to handicapped or disabled
individuals.
   (B)   When it is necessary to hold a meeting on less than 24 hours’ notice,
or at a place that is not reasonably accessible to the public, or at a time
that is not reasonably convenient to the public, the nature of the good cause
justifying that departure from the normal requirements shall be stated in the
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 120.090)
§ 31.49 SEGREGATION OF EXEMPT MATERIAL.
   If a public record contains material which is not exempt from disclosure, as
well as material which is exempt from disclosure, the custodian shall separate
the exempt and non-exempt material and make the non-exempt material available
for examination and copying in accord with the policies provided herein. When
designing a public record, the custodian shall, to the extent practicable,
facilitate a separation of exempt from non-exempt information. If the
separation is readily apparent to a person requesting to inspect or receive
copies of the form, the custodian shall generally describe the material
exempted unless that description would reveal the contents of the exempt
information and thus defeat the purpose of the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 120.100)
§ 31.50 CUSTODIAN DESIGNATED; RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of records and will be
responsible for maintenance and control of all records. The custodian may
designate deputy custodians in operating departments of the city and such other
departments or offices as the custodian may determine. Deputy custodians shall
conduct matters relating to public records and meetings in accord with the
policies enumerated herein.
   (B)   The custodian shall provide public access to all public records as
soon as possible but no later than the end of the third business day following
the date the request is received by the custodian. If additional delay is
necessary, the custodian shall give an explanation for the delay and the place
and the earliest time and date the record will be available for inspection.
   (C)   If a request for access is denied, the custodian shall provide, upon
request, a written statement of the grounds for such denial. Such statement
shall cite the specific provision of law under which access is denied and shall
be furnished to the requester no later than the end of the third business day
following the date that the request for the statement is received.
(Prior Code, § 120.110)
§ 31.51 PROCEDURES FOR RESOLVING QUESTIONS OF PUBLIC ACCESSIBILITY.
   A public governmental body or record custodian in doubt about the legality
of closing a particular meeting, record, or vote may, subject to approval by
the Board of Aldermen, bring suit at the expense of the public governmental
body in the Circuit Court for the county to ascertain the propriety of such
action. In addition, subject to approval by the Board of Aldermen, the public
governmental body or custodian may seek a formal opinion of the Attorney
General or an attorney for the city regarding the propriety of such action. In
such events, the proposed closed meeting or public access to the record or vote
shall be deferred for a reasonable time pending the outcome of the actions so
taken.
(Prior Code, § 120.120)
§ 31.52 FEES.
   The custodian shall charge $0.20 per page for duplication costs and $20 per
hour for document search; provided however, that the fee for copies of bond
receipts and other bond documents of the city’s Municipal Court and/or city
Police Department shall be $5 per report and no hourly charge for document
search shall be levied for such documents. Said fees for copying public records
shall not exceed the actual cost of document search and duplication. Upon
request, the public governmental body shall certify, in writing, that the
actual cost of document search and duplication is fair, reasonable, and does
not exceed the actual cost incurred by the public governmental body. The
custodian may require payment prior to duplicating any documents.
(Prior Code, § 120.130)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Abolition of office of City Marshal
   
32.02   Office of Chief of Police established
   
32.03   Qualifications of Chief of Police
   
32.04   Size of police force; powers
   
32.05   Qualifications of police officers
   
32.06   Assistance of citizen
   
32.07   City may enter into agreement
Law Enforcement Reports
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Police Department records
   
32.22   Effect of nolle pros, dismissal, and suspended imposition of sentence
on records
   
32.23   Public access of closed arrest records
   
32.24   911 telephone records
   
32.25   Daily log or record maintained by Police Department of crimes,
accidents, or complaints; public access to certain information
Editor’s note:
   Prior Code §§ 203.010 through 203.080 established the original Fire
Department. The Fire Department was incorporated as the newly established
“Pilot Grove Area Fire Protection District “ by the affirmativE action of an
election held on April 8, 2014.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ABOLITION OF OFFICE OF CITY MARSHAL.
   The office of City Marshal of the city is hereby abolished pursuant to
authority granted to the Board of Aldermen in an election held April 1, 1975
under the terms of RSMo. § 79.050.
(Prior Code, § 200.005)
§ 32.02 OFFICE OF CHIEF OF POLICE ESTABLISHED.
   It is hereby established the office of Chief of Police, who shall be paid
the sum approved by the Board of Aldermen per month from the City Treasury. The
Board of Aldermen may, from time to time, appoint such number of other regular
police officers as they in their discretion deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 200.007)
§ 32.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall perform all duties required of the Marshal by law.
The Chief of Police shall be 21 years of age or older and qualified to serve as
a law enforcement officer under RSMo. Chapter 590.
(Prior Code, § 200.010)
§ 32.04 SIZE OF POLICE FORCE; POWERS.
   The police of the city may be appointed in such numbers, for such times, and
in such manner as may be prescribed by subchapter. They shall have power to
serve and execute all warrants, subpoenas, writs, or other process and to make
arrests in the same manner as the Chief of Police. They may exercise such
powers in areas leased or owned by the municipality outside of the boundaries
of such municipality. The Chief of Police and police officers shall be
conservators of the peace and shall be active and vigilant in the preservation
of good order within the city.
(Prior Code, § 200.020)
§ 32.05 QUALIFICATIONS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police and all police officers shall be qualified in accordance
with the provisions of RSMo. Chapter 590.
(Prior Code, § 200.022)
§ 32.06 ASSISTANCE OF CITIZEN.
   The Chief of Police and every police officer of the city is hereby
authorized if he or she deems it necessary to call to his or her assistance any
person or the number of persons needed to aid him or her in making arrests.
(Prior Code, § 200.024)
§ 32.07 CITY MAY ENTER INTO AGREEMENT.
   The Board of Aldermen of the city may, by ordinance, enter into a contract
or agreement with any other political subdivision for the provision of police
services by one political subdivision to another on request, as provided for in
RSMo. § 70.815. The terms CHIEF OF POLICE, POLICE, POLICE OFFICER, and POLICE
DEPARTMENT as used herein shall refer to law enforcement officers of the
contracting entity.
(Prior Code, § 200.030)
LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTS
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARREST. An actual restraint of the person of the defendant, or by his or her
submission to the custody of the officer, under authority of a warrant or
otherwise for a criminal violation which results in the issuance of a summons
or the person being booked.
   ARREST REPORT. A record of a law enforcement agency of an arrest and of any
detention or confinement incident thereto together with the charge therefor.
   INACTIVE. An investigation in which no further action will be taken by a law
enforcement agency or officer for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   A decision by the law enforcement agency not to pursue the case;
      (2)   Expiration of the time to file criminal charges pursuant to the
applicable statute of limitations or ten years after the commission of the
offense, whichever date earliest occurs; and
      (3)   Finality of the convictions of all persons convicted on the basis
of the information contained in the investigative report, by exhaustion of or
expiration of all rights of appeal of such persons.
   INCIDENT REPORT. A record of a law enforcement agency consisting of the
date, time, specific location, name of the victim, and immediate facts and
circumstances surrounding the initial report of a crime or incident, including
any logs of reported crimes, accidents, and complaints maintained by that
agency.
   INVESTIGATIVE REPORT. A record, other than an arrest or incident report,
prepared by personnel of a law enforcement agency inquiring into a crime or
suspected crime either in response to an incident report or in response to
evidence developed by law enforcement officers in the course of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 120.140)
§ 32.21 POLICE DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   (A)   The Police Department of the city shall maintain records of all
incidents reported to the Police Department and investigations and arrests made
by the Police Department. All incident reports and arrest reports shall be open
records. Notwithstanding any other provision of law other than the provisions
of division (C) below or RSMo. § 320.083, investigative reports of the Police
Department are closed records until the investigation becomes inactive. If any
person is arrested and not charged with an offense against the law within 30
days of the person’s arrest, the arrest report shall thereafter be a closed
record except that the disposition portion of the record may be accessed,
except as provided in §
32.43.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below, if any portion of a
record or document of a police officer or the Police Department, other than an
arrest report, which would otherwise be open, contains information that is
reasonably likely to pose a clear and present danger to the safety of any
victim, witness, undercover officer, or other person; or jeopardize a criminal
investigation, including records which would disclose the identity of a source
wishing to remain confidential or a suspect not in custody; or which would
disclose techniques, procedures, or guidelines for Police Department
investigations or prosecutions, that portion of the record shall be closed and
shall be redacted from any record made available pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, attorney for a person, or insurer of a person
involved in any incident or whose property is involved in an incident may
obtain any records closed pursuant to this section or §
32.43 for purposes of investigation of any civil claim or defense, as provided
by this division (C).
      (2)   Any individual, his or her attorney, or insurer involved in an
incident or whose property is involved in an incident, upon written request,
may obtain a complete unaltered and unedited incident report concerning the
incident and may obtain access to other records closed by the Police Department
pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Within 30 days of such request, the Police Department shall provide
the requested material or file a motion, pursuant to this division (C) with the
Circuit Court having jurisdiction over the Police Department, stating that the
safety of the victim, witness, or other individual cannot be reasonably
ensured, or that a criminal investigation is likely to be jeopardized. Pursuant
to RSMo. § 610.100(4), if, based on such motion, the court finds for the Police
Department, the court shall either order the record closed or order such
portion of the record that should be closed to be redacted from any record made
available pursuant to this division (C).
   (D)   The victim of an offense, as provided in RSMo. Chapter 566, may
request that his or her identity be kept confidential until a charge relating
to such incident is filed.
(Prior Code, § 120.150)
§ 32.22 EFFECT OF NOLLE PROS, DISMISSAL, AND SUSPENDED IMPOSITION OF SENTENCE
ON RECORDS.
   If the person arrested is charged but the case is subsequently nolle
prossed, dismissed, or the accused is found not guilty, or imposition of
sentence is suspended in the court in which the action is prosecuted, official
records pertaining to the case shall thereafter be closed records when such
case is finally terminated, except as provided in §
32.43 and except that the court’s judgment or order or the final action taken
by the prosecutor in such matters may be accessed. If the accused is found not
guilty due to mental disease or defect pursuant to RSMo. § 552.030, official
records pertaining to the case shall thereafter be closed records upon such
findings, except that the disposition may be accessed only by law enforcement
agencies; child care agencies; facilities, as defined in RSMo. § 198.006; and
in-home services provider agencies, as defined in RSMo. § 660.250, in the
manner established by §
32.43.
(Prior Code, § 120.160)
§ 32.23 PUBLIC ACCESS OF CLOSED ARREST RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Records required to be closed shall not be destroyed; they shall
be inaccessible to the general public and to all persons other than the
defendant, except as provided in this section and RSMo. § 43.507. They shall be
available to the Sentencing Advisory Commission, created in RSMo. § 558.019 for
the purpose of studying sentencing practices and only to courts; law
enforcement agencies; child care agencies; Department of Revenue for driving
record purposes; facilities, as defined in RSMo. § 198.006; in-home services
provider agencies, as defined in RSMo. § 660.250; the Division of Workers’
Compensation for the purposes of determining eligibility for crime victims’
compensation, pursuant to RSMo. §§ 595.010 to 595.075; and federal agencies for
purposes of prosecution, sentencing, parole consideration, criminal justice
employment, child care employment, nursing home employment, and to federal
agencies for such investigative purposes as authorized by law or presidential
executive order.
      (2)   These records shall be made available for the above purposes
regardless of any previous statutory provision which had closed such records to
certain agencies or for certain purposes. All records which are closed records
shall be removed from the records of the Police Department and Municipal Court
which are available to the public and shall be kept in separate records which
are to be held confidential and, where possible, pages of the public record
shall be retyped or rewritten omitting those portions of the record which deal
with the defendant’s case. If retyping or rewriting is not feasible because of
the permanent nature of the record books, such record entries shall be blacked
out and recopied in a confidential book.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHILD CARE includes providers and
youth services agencies as those terms are defined in RSMo. § 43.540,
elementary and secondary school teachers, and elementary and secondary school
bus drivers, whether such drivers are employed by a school or an entity which
has contracted with the school to provide transportation services.
(Prior Code, § 120.170)
§ 32.24 911 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   Except as provided by this section, any information acquired by the Police
Department by way of a complaint or report of a crime made by telephone contact
using the emergency number “911” shall be inaccessible to the general public.
However, information consisting of the date, time, specific location, and
immediate facts and circumstances surrounding the initial report of the crime
or incident shall be considered to be an incident report and subject to §
32.41. Any closed records pursuant to this section shall be available upon
request by law enforcement agencies or the Division of Workers’ Compensation or
pursuant to a valid court order authorizing disclosure upon motion and good
cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 120.180)
§ 32.25 DAILY LOG OR RECORD MAINTAINED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT OF CRIMES,
ACCIDENTS, OR COMPLAINTS; PUBLIC ACCESS TO CERTAIN INFORMATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the city’s Police
Department, if it maintains a daily log or record that lists suspected crimes,
accidents, or complaints, shall make available the following information for
inspection and copying by the public:
      (1)   The time, substance, and location of all complaints or requests for
assistance received by the Police Department;
      (2)   The time and nature of the Police Department’s response to all
complaints or requests for assistance; and
      (3)   If the incident involves an alleged offense or infraction:
         (a)   The time, date, and location of occurrence;
         (b)   The name and age of any victim, unless the victim is a victim of
a crime under RSMo. Chapter 566;
         (c)   The factual circumstances surrounding the incident; and
         (d)   A general description of any injuries, property, or weapons
involved.
   (B)   The Police Department, having custody of an accident report or
incident report, as defined in §
32.20, shall not release for 60 days after the date of the accident or incident
the report containing the factual circumstances or general description of any
injuries as provided in division (A)(3)(c) and (A)(3)(d) above to a person that
is not an interested party. For the purposes of this division (B), an
INTERESTED PARTY is any law enforcement agency; any person who was involved in
the accident or incident; the Street Department of the jurisdiction involved;
the owner of any vehicle involved in the accident or incident; the insurance
company, physician, or family member of any person involved in the accident or
incident; or any attorney; or any member of the news media.
(Prior Code, § 120.190)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year established
   
33.02   Procurement policy
Budget
   
33.15   Budget required; contents; expenditures not to exceed revenues
   
33.16   Budget officer
   
33.17   Board of Aldermen may revise budget; limits; approval
   
33.18   Increase of expenditure over budgeted amount to be made only on formal
resolution
Levy of Taxes
   
33.30   Board to provide for levy and collection of taxes; fix penalties
   
33.31   Board to fix rate of levy
   
33.32   Method of assessment
   
33.33   Clerk to prepare tax bonds
   
33.34   When taxes are delinquent
Sales Tax
   
33.45   Imposition of city sales tax
   
33.46   Imposition of city transportation sales tax
   
33.47   Imposition of city capital improvement sales tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR ESTABLISHED.
   The fiscal year for the city shall begin April 1 of each year and all city
budgets, audits, and other statutory requirements shall be prepared on a April
1 through March 31 fiscal year and all required matters concerning same be
required to use such dates for those statutory and other necessary purposes.
(Prior Code, § 130.010)
§ 33.02 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   All items purchased shall be subject to competitive bidding, except as
follows:
      (1)   Purchases made cooperatively with other units of government,
purchases from other units of government, and gasoline and oil and other fuel
if purchased on a daily basis from a local station, and purchases with an
aggregate cost of less than $500 or less at any one time of purchase;
      (2)   Purchases of $500 to $1,000 may be approved by the Mayor or Board
of Aldermen; and
      (3)   Purchases in excess of $1,000 must be approved by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   In case of emergency purchases, all competitive bid requirements shall
be suspended; and, if formal board approval of the purchases is required, such
approval shall be recorded in the minutes of the next regular meeting of the
Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   All formal bids will be opened at the time specified in the notice of
invitation to bid and read in public. A tabulation of the bids will be
available for inspection by any interested party.
   (D)   The Board may reject any or all bids if it determines that acceptance
of the bids would not be in the best interest of the city.
   (E)   The Board will make the award to the lowest and best bid. In
determining the lowest and best, the Board shall consider factors beyond price
which may include, but not limited to:
      (1)   Ability, capacity, and skills of the bidder to perform the
contract;
      (2)   Timely start and completion of the contract;
      (3)   Experience and efficiency of the bidder;
      (4)   Quality of performance of previous contracts; and
      (5)   Previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances, and the ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service.
   (F)   All bidders shall be timely notified in writing of their successful or
unsuccessful bid.
(Ord. 103, passed 11-2-2020)
BUDGET
§ 33.15 BUDGET REQUIRED; CONTENTS; EXPENDITURES NOT TO EXCEED REVENUES.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, a budget for the city
shall be prepared and the same will be presented to and approved by the Board
of Aldermen.
   (B)   The annual budget shall present a complete financial plan for the
ensuing fiscal year and shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   A budget message describing the important features of the budget
and major changes from the preceding year;
      (2)   Estimated revenues to be received from all sources for the budget
year, with a comparative statement of actual or estimated revenues for the two
years next preceding, itemized by year, fund, and source;
      (3)   Proposed expenditures for each department, office, commission, and
other classification for the budget year, together with a comparative statement
of actual or estimated expenditures for the two years next preceding, itemized
by year, fund, activity, and object;
      (4)   The amount required for the payment of interest, amortization, and
redemption charges on the debt of the city; and
      (5)   A general budget summary.
   (C)   In no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed
the estimated revenues to be received plus any unencumbered balance or less any
deficit estimated for the beginning of the budget year, provided that nothing
herein shall be construed as requiring the city to use any cash balance as
current revenue or to change from a cash basis of financing its expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 130.020)
§ 33.16 BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   The budget shall be prepared under the direction of a Budget Officer.
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the Budget Officer shall be
designated by the Board of Aldermen of the city. All officers and employees
shall cooperate with and provide to the Budget Officer such information and
such records as he or she shall require in developing the budget. The Budget
Officer shall review all the expenditure requests and revenue estimates, after
which he or she shall prepare the proposed budget as defined herein.
   (B)   After the Budget Officer has prepared the proposed budget, he or she
shall submit it, along with such supporting schedules, exhibits, and other
explanatory material as may be necessary for the proper understanding of the
financial needs and position of the city, to the Board of Aldermen. He or she
shall submit at the same time complete drafts of such orders, motions,
resolutions, or ordinances as may be required to authorize the proposed
expenditures and produce the revenues necessary to balance the proposed budget.
(Prior Code, § 130.030)
§ 33.17 BOARD OF ALDERMEN MAY REVISE BUDGET; LIMITS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen may revise, alter, increase, or decrease the
items contained in the proposed budget, subject to such limitations as may be
provided by law, provided that in no event shall the total authorized
expenditures from any fund exceed the estimated revenues to be received plus
any unencumbered balance or less any deficit estimated for the beginning of the
budget year.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Aldermen shall,
before the beginning of the fiscal year, approve the budget and approve or
adopt such orders, motions, resolutions, or ordinances as may be required to
authorize the budgeted expenditures and produce the revenues estimated in the
budget.
(Prior Code, § 130.040)
§ 33.18 INCREASE OF EXPENDITURE OVER BUDGETED AMOUNT TO BE MADE ONLY ON FORMAL
RESOLUTION.
   After the city has approved the budget for any year and has approved or
adopted the orders, motions, resolutions, or ordinances required to authorize
the expenditures proposed in the budget, the city shall not increase the total
amount authorized for expenditure from any fund, unless the Board of Aldermen
adopts a resolution setting forth the facts and reasons making the increase
necessary and approves or adopts an order, motion, resolution, or ordinance to
authorize the expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 130.050)
LEVY OF TAXES
§ 33.30 BOARD TO PROVIDE FOR LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES; FIX PENALTIES.
   The Board of Aldermen shall, from time to time, provide by ordinance for the
levy and collection of all taxes, licenses, wharfage, and other duties not
herein enumerated and, for neglect or refusal to pay the same, shall fix such
penalties as are now or may hereafter be authorized by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 130.060)
§ 33.31 BOARD TO FIX RATE OF LEVY.
   The Board of Aldermen shall, within a reasonable time after the Assessor’s
books of each year are returned, ascertain the amount of money to be raised
thereon for general and other purposes and fix the annual rate of levy therefor
by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 130.070)
§ 33.32 METHOD OF ASSESSMENT.
   In the absence of a City Assessor and until such City Assessor is duly
appointed and qualified, it shall be the duty of the Mayor of the city to
procure from the County Clerk on or before October 1 of each year a certified
abstract from his or her assessment books of all property within the corporate
limits of the city made taxable by law for state purposes and the assessed
valuation thereof as agreed upon by the Board of Equalization, which abstract
shall be immediately transmitted to the Board of Aldermen, and it shall be the
duty of the Board of Aldermen to establish by ordinance the rate of taxes for
the year.
(Prior Code, § 130.080)
§ 33.33 CLERK TO PREPARE TAX BONDS.
   When the Board of Aldermen shall have fixed the rate of taxation for any
given year, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to cause to be prepared
appropriate and accurate tax books and shall therein set out in suitable
columns, opposite the name of each person and the item of taxable property, as
returned by the Assessor and Board of Equalization, the amount of taxes,
whether general or special, due thereon and shall charge the City Collector
with the full amount of taxes levied and to be collected.
(Prior Code, § 130.090)
§ 33.34 WHEN TAXES ARE DELINQUENT.
   On January 1 of each year, all unpaid city taxes shall become delinquent and
the taxes on real estate are hereby made a lien thereon; and all such
delinquent taxes shall bear interest thereon at the rate of 2% per month from
the time they become delinquent, not to exceed 18% per year, until paid and
shall also be subject to the same fees, penalties, commissions, and charges as
provided by law of the state for delinquent state and county taxes and shall be
collected from the property owners, and the enforcement of all taxes,
penalties, fees, commissions, and charges authorized by law and provided for
herein to be paid by property owners shall be made in the same manner and under
the same rules and regulations as are or may be provided by law for the
collection and enforcement of the payment of state and county taxes, including
fees, penalties, commissions, and other charges.
(Prior Code, § 130.100)
SALES TAX
§ 33.45 IMPOSITION OF CITY SALES TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by and subject to the provisions of
RSMo. §§ 94.500 to 94.550, a tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed
upon all sellers for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling
tangible personal property or rendering taxable services at retail to the
extent and in the manner provided in RSMo. §§ 144.010 to 144.527, and the rules
and regulations of the Director of Revenue issued pursuant thereto. The rate of
the tax shall be 1% on the receipts from the sale at retail of all tangible
personal property or taxable services at retail within the city if such
property and taxable services are subject to taxation by the state under the
provisions of RSMo. §§ 144.010 to 144.527. The tax shall become effective as
provided in RSMo. § 94.510, and shall be collected pursuant to the provisions
of RSMo. §§ 94.500 to 94.550.
   (B)   The municipal sales tax on sales of metered water services,
electricity, electrical current, natural, artificial, or propane gas, wood,
coal, or home heating oil used for non-business, non-commercial, or non-
industrial purposes heretofore imposed and to be imposed within the corporate
limits of this municipality is hereby reimposed. The rate of the taxation shall
be, as heretofore provided, 1%.
(Prior Code, § 130.110) (Ord. 1, passed 4-7-2003)
§ 33.46 IMPOSITION OF CITY TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX.
   A sales tax for transportation purposes under RSMo. § 94.700 is imposed in
the amount of 0.5% for a period of five years on receipts from the sale at
retail of all tangible personal property or taxable services at retail within
the city so long as such property and services are subject to taxation by the
state under the provisions of RSMo. §§ 144.010 through 144.537. This tax was
re-imposed on August 8, 2006 for a period of five years. It has been re-imposed
every five years since for an additional five-year period. It is currently set
to expire on September 30, 2025.
(Prior Code, § 130.120)
§ 33.47 IMPOSITION OF CITY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT SALES TAX.
   The city has imposed a five-year renewable .05% capital improvements sales
tax, originally imposed on April 5, 2011 for a period of five years. It has
been re-imposed every five years since 2011 for an additional five-year period
each time. It is currently set to expire or will be eligible for renewal on
September 30, 2026.
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Conformance of city election with state law
   
34.02   Date of municipal election
   
34.03   Declaration of candidacy; dates for filing
   
34.04   Candidates for municipal office; no arrearage for municipal taxes or
use fees permitted
   
34.05   Declaration of candidacy; notice to public
   
34.06   Declaration of candidacy; form
   
34.07   Notice of elections
§ 34.01 CONFORMANCE OF CITY ELECTION WITH STATE LAW.
   All city elections shall be conducted and held in conformance with the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 115.
(Prior Code, § 105.010)
§ 34.02 DATE OF MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   (A)   A municipal election for the qualified voters of this city shall be
held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in April of each year.
   (B)   On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in April of odd-numbered
years, a municipal election of the qualified voters of the city shall be held
for the purpose of electing a Mayor who shall hold his or her office for a term
of two years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in April of odd-numbered
years, a municipal election of the qualified voters of the city shall be held
for the purpose of electing two Aldermen at large who shall hold his or her
office for a term of two consecutive years and until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
   (D)   On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in April of even-numbered
years, a municipal election of the qualified voters of the city shall be held
for the purpose of electing two Aldermen at large who shall hold his or her
office for a term of two consecutive years and until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 105.020) (Ord. 51, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 34.03 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; DATES FOR FILING.
   (A)   Any person who desires to become a candidate for an elective city
office at the general city election shall file with the City Clerk, not prior
to the hour of 8:00 a.m. on the fifteenth Tuesday prior to, nor later than 5:00
p.m. on the eleventh Tuesday prior to the next city municipal election, a
written declaration of his or her intent to become a candidate at said
election.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of the names of the
candidates, the offices for which they seek election, and the date of their
filing, and their names shall appear on the ballots in that order.
(Prior Code, § 105.030)
§ 34.04 CANDIDATES FOR MUNICIPAL OFFICE; NO ARREARAGE FOR MUNICIPAL TAXES OR
USE FEES PERMITTED.
   No person shall be a candidate for municipal office unless such person
complies with the provisions of RSMo. § 115.306, regarding payment of municipal
taxes or user fees.
(Prior Code, § 105.035)
§ 34.05 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, on or before the fifteenth Tuesday prior to any
election at which city offices are to be filled by said election, notify the
general public of the opening filing date, the office or offices to be filled,
the proper place for filing, and the closing filing date of the election.
   (B)   Such notification may be accomplished by legal notice published in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 105.040)
§ 34.06 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; FORM.
   The form of said written declaration of candidacy shall be substantially as
follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34abecb20d60bc49ec05ab2924f665d23862a77d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1710.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 105.050)
§ 34.07 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   In city elections, the City Clerk shall notify the County Clerk prior to 5:
00 p.m. on the tenth Tuesday prior to any city election, except as noted in
RSMo. § 115.125.1. The notice shall be in writing; shall specify that the Board
of Aldermen is calling the election, the purpose of the election, the date of
the election; and shall include a certified copy of the legal notice to be
published including the sample ballot. The written notice shall be executed on
behalf of the Board of Aldermen by the Mayor of the Board and shall include the
attestation of the City Clerk and shall have affixed thereto the seal of the
city. The notice and any other information required by this section may, with
the prior notification to the election authority receiving the notice, be
accepted by facsimile transmission prior to 5:00 p.m. on the tenth Tuesday
prior to the election, provided that the original copy of the notice and a
certified copy of the legal notice to be published shall be received in the
office of the election authority within three business days from the date of
the facsimile transmission.
(Prior Code, § 105.060)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Organization
   
35.03   Functions
   
35.04   Director
   
35.05   Scope of operation
   
35.06   Mutual-aid agreements
   
35.07   City may accept services
   
35.08   Oath
   
35.09   Office space
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created within and for the city an emergency management
organization to be known as the “Pilot Grove Emergency Management
Organization”, which is responsible for the preparation and implementation of
emergency functions required to prevent injury and minimize and repair damage
due to disasters, to include emergency management of resources and
administration of such economic controls as may be needed to provide for the
welfare of the people, and emergency activities (excluding functions for which
military forces are primarily responsible) in accordance with RSMo. Chapter 44,
and supplements thereto, and the state’s Emergency Operations Plan adopted
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 225.010)
§ 35.02 ORGANIZATION.
   This agency shall consist of a Director and other members appointed by the
city’s Emergency Management Organization to conform to the state organization
and procedures for the conduct of emergency operations as outlined in the
state’s Emergency Operations Plan.
(Prior Code, § 225.020)
§ 35.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The organization shall perform emergency management functions within the
city and may conduct these functions outside the territorial limits as directed
by the Governor during the time of emergency pursuant to the provisions of
RSMo. Chapter 44 and supplements thereto.
(Prior Code, § 225.030)
§ 35.04 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director will be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operations of local emergency management operations,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor or Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for maintaining records and
accounting for the use and disposal of all items of equipment placed under the
jurisdiction of the city’s Emergency Management Organization.
(Prior Code, § 225.040)
§ 35.05 SCOPE OF OPERATION.
   The city, in accordance with RSMo. Chapter 44, may:
   (A)   Appropriate and expend funds, make contracts, obtain and distribute
equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes; provide
for the health and safety of persons, the safety of property; and direct and
coordinate the development of disaster plans and programs in accordance with
the policies and plans of the federal and state governments.
   (B)   Appoint, provide, or remove rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police
personnel, and other emergency operation teams, units, or personnel who may
serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 225.050)
§ 35.06 MUTUAL-AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Mayor of the city, with the approval of the Governor and consistent with
the state’s Emergency Operations Plan and the provisions of RSMo. §§ 70.837 and
320.090, may enter into mutual-aid agreements with other public and private
agencies within and without the state for reciprocal emergency aid. The
Director may assist in the negotiation of such reciprocal mutual-aid
agreements.
(Prior Code, § 225.060)
§ 35.07 CITY MAY ACCEPT SERVICES.
   The Mayor of the city may, with the consent of the Governor, accept
services, materials, equipment, supplies, or funds gifted, granted, or loaned
by the federal government or an officer or agency thereof for emergency
management purposes, subject to the terms of the offer.
(Prior Code, § 225.070)
§ 35.08 OATH.
   No person shall be employed or associated in any capacity in the city’s
Emergency Management Organization who advocates or has advocated a change by
force or violence in the constitutional form of the government of the United
States or in this state or the overthrow of any government in the United States
by force or violence, or has been convicted of or is under indictment or
information charging any subversive act against the United States. Each person
who is appointed to serve in the city’s Emergency Management Organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before
a person authorized to administer oaths in this state, which oath shall be
substantially as follows:
      “I,               , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Missouri against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without
any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such a time as I am a member of the Pilot Grove Emergency Management
Organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 225.080)
§ 35.09 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in any city-owned or leased
building for the city’s Emergency Management Organization.
(Prior Code, § 225.090)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
36.01   Violations to be heard by Associate Circuit Judge
   
36.02   Municipal division; Circuit Court
   
36.03   Rules governing procedure and practice in the Municipal Court
   
36.04   Violations Bureau; duties; court costs
   
36.05   Clerk; municipal division; Violations Bureau; bond
   
36.06   Police; serve as bailiff
   
36.07   Courtroom
   
36.08   Court costs; filing fees
   
36.09   Fines and costs; where paid
   
36.10   Procedure; fines and costs; report
   
36.11   Prosecutions by information
   
36.12   Warrants; how issued and executed
   
36.13   Witnesses
   
36.14   Arrest without warrants; procedure
   
36.15   Attorney to prosecute violations
   
36.16   Service on city and affidavit by city
   
36.17   Trial by jury; when
   
36.18   Judge to be trier of fact
   
36.19   Parole or probation when granted; certificate; conditions of probation;
modification of conditions
   
36.20   Appeals; trial de novo
   
36.21   Recognizance and forfeitures
   
36.22   Fine; installments allowed; commuted to imprisonment
   
36.23   City ordinances; evidence; judicial notice of
§ 36.01 VIOLATIONS TO BE HEARD BY ASSOCIATE CIRCUIT JUDGE.
   The city hereby elects to have all violations of its municipal ordinances
heard and determined by an Associate Circuit Judge of the Circuit Court of the
county in which the city is located.
(Prior Code, § 125.010)
§ 36.02 MUNICIPAL DIVISION; CIRCUIT COURT.
   The division of the Circuit Court of the county, which hears and determines
violations of the ordinances of the city shall be known as the “Municipal
Division of the Circuit Court of Cooper County, Missouri.”
(Prior Code, § 125.020)
§ 36.03 RULES GOVERNING PROCEDURE AND PRACTICE IN THE MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The rules governing the procedure and practice in the Municipal Court shall
be those established and promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state and such
subsequent rules as the Supreme Court shall from time to time establish and
promulgate; and any provision in these ordinances which shall be in conflict
with such rules is hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 125.030)
§ 36.04 VIOLATIONS BUREAU; DUTIES; COURT COSTS.
   (A)   The judge may establish a Violations Bureau in the city and shall
establish such a Bureau when a request therefor is made by the Board of
Aldermen of the city.
   (B)   The Violations Bureau shall operate under the supervision of the
Circuit Court and the Associate Circuit Judge hearing and determining
violations of the ordinances of the city and shall be operated in accordance
with the rules of the Supreme Court and the rules of the Circuit Court.
   (C)   All expenses incident to the operation of the Violations Bureau,
including salaries of clerical personnel, shall be paid by the city. The city
shall provide suitable quarters for the Violations Bureau.
   (D)   The Violations Bureau shall accept pleas of guilty to certain
violations of traffic ordinances designated by the judge and shall accept
payments of fines established by the judge and court costs assessed on said
pleas of guilty.
(Prior Code, § 125.040)
§ 36.05 CLERK; MUNICIPAL DIVISION; VIOLATIONS BUREAU; BOND.
   (A)   The city may employ a person to serve as Clerk of the Municipal
Division of the Circuit Court of the county, and shall fix and determine the
salary. The Clerk may also serve as Clerk in the Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The Clerk shall enter into a bond payable to the state and a bond
payable to the city with good and sufficient securities in amounts to be
determined by the judge. The cost of the bonds shall be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 125.050)
§ 36.06 POLICE; SERVE AS BAILIFF.
   At such times as the judge is hearing and determining violations of the
ordinances of the city, the Chief of Police, or any member of the city’s Police
Department, may serve as bailiff to the court.
(Prior Code, § 125.060)
§ 36.07 COURTROOM.
   The judge may hear and determine violations of the ordinances of the city in
a courtroom provided by the county or, at the request of the judge, the city
shall provide a suitable courtroom in which to hold court.
(Prior Code, § 125.070)
§ 36.08 COURT COSTS; FILING FEES.
   In cases of violations of ordinances of the city submitted to, heard, and
determined by the Associate Circuit Judge and, in addition to all other fees
authorized or required by law, there shall be assessed as costs the following:
   (A)   Costs of court in the amount of $15;
   (B)   A police officer training fee of $3 is hereby established and assessed
as additional court costs in each court proceeding, except that no such fee
shall be collected when the proceedings against the defendant have been
dismissed:
      (1)   Two dollars of each such court cost shall be transmitted monthly to
the Treasurer of the city and used to pay for police officer training, as
provided by RSMo. §§ 590.100 to 590.180. The city shall not retain for training
purposes more than $1,500 of such funds for each certified law enforcement
officer or candidate for certification employed by the city. Any excess funds
shall be transmitted quarterly to the city’s General Fund; and
      (2)   One dollar of each such court cost shall be sent to the State
Treasury to the credit of the Peace Officers Standards and Training Commission
Fund created by RSMo. § 590.178.
   (C)   (1)   Crime Victims’ Compensation Fund: an additional sum of $7.50
shall be assessed and added to the basic costs in division (A) above, provided
that no such cost shall be collected in any proceeding when the proceeding or
the defendant has been dismissed by the court.
      (2)   All sums collected pursuant to this division (C) shall be paid at
least monthly as follows:
         (a)   Ninety-five percent of such fees shall be paid to the Director
of Revenue of the state for deposit, as provided in RSMo. § 595.045(6); and
         (b)   Five percent shall be paid to the City Treasury.
   (D)   Other costs, such as for the issuance of a warrant, a commitment, or a
summons, as provided before the Associate Circuit Judge in criminal
prosecutions;
   (E)   Actual costs assessed against the city by the County Sheriff for
apprehension or confinement in the county jail;
   (F)   Mileage, in the same amount as provided to the Sheriff in criminal
violations, for each mile and fraction thereof the officer must travel (both
directions) in order to serve any warrant or commitment or order of this court;
   (G)   Any other reasonable cost as may be otherwise provided by ordinance
including, but not limited to, costs of confinement, including any necessary
transportation related thereto, medical costs incurred by the city while a
defendant is in city custody, and costs related to the arrest and testing of
any person for any intoxication-related traffic offense as set out in division
(H) below; and
   (H)   Reimbursement of certain costs of arrest:
      (1)   Upon a plea or a finding of guilty for a first offense of violating
the provisions of an ordinance of the city involving alcohol- or drug-related
traffic offenses, the court may, in addition to imposition of any penalties
provided by law, order the convicted person to reimburse the Police Department
for the costs associated with such arrest;
      (2)   Such costs hereby authorized shall include the reasonable cost of
making the arrest, including the cost of any chemical test made as authorized
or required by law or ordinance to determine the alcohol or drug content of the
person’s blood, and the costs of processing, charging, booking, and holding
such person in custody;
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall establish a schedule of such costs hereby
authorized and shall submit the same to the municipal judge. However, the court
may order the costs reduced if it determines that the costs are excessive; and
      (4)   Upon receipt of such additional costs authorized by this division
(H)(4), the City Treasurer shall retain such costs in a separate fund to be
known as the “DWI/Drug Offense Cost Reimbursement Fund”. Monies within such
fund shall be appropriated by the Board of Aldermen to the Police Department in
amounts equal to those costs so collected and shall be used by such department
specifically to enhance and support the enforcement and prosecution of alcohol-
and drug-related traffic laws within the city.
(Prior Code, § 125.080)
§ 36.09 FINES AND COSTS; WHERE PAID.
   In cases of violations of ordinances of the city submitted to, heard, and
determined before them, all fines shall be paid to and deposited at least
monthly into the City Treasury and all court costs shall be accounted for and
remitted to the State Treasury in the same manner as provided by law for costs
in misdemeanor cases.
(Prior Code, § 125.090)
§ 36.10 PROCEDURE; FINES AND COSTS; REPORT.
   The Supreme Court, by administrative rule, may provide for uniform procedure
and reporting forms for the collection and transmittal of fines and costs.
Until modified or otherwise provided by such administrative rule, the judge
hearing and determining violations of city ordinances shall cause the Clerk of
the Municipal Division, within the first ten days of every month, to make out a
list of all the cases heard or tried before the judge during the preceding
month, giving in each case the name of the defendant; the fine imposed, if any;
the amount of costs; the names of defendants committed; and the cases in which
there was application for trial de novo, respectively. Such clerk or the judge
shall verify such lists and statements by affidavit and file the same forthwith
with the City Clerk, who shall present the same before the Board of Aldermen at
its first session thereafter. The official collecting fines shall, within the
ten days aforesaid, pay to the City Treasurer the full amount of all fines
collected by him or her during the preceding month if not previously paid to
the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 125.100)
§ 36.11 PROSECUTIONS BY INFORMATION.
   All prosecutions for the violation of city ordinances shall be instituted by
information and may be based upon a complaint. Proceedings shall be in
accordance with the Supreme Court rule governing practices and procedures in
proceedings before municipal judges.
(Prior Code, § 125.110)
§ 36.12 WARRANTS; HOW ISSUED AND EXECUTED.
   All warrants issued by the judge hearing violations of city ordinances shall
be directed to the Chief of Police or any other police officer of the city or
to the Sheriff of the county. The warrants shall be executed by the Chief of
Police, police officer, or Sheriff at any place within the limits of the county
and not elsewhere, unless the warrants are endorsed in the manner provided for
warrants in criminal cases and, when so endorsed, shall be served in other
counties as provided for in warrants in criminal cases.
(Prior Code, § 125.120)
§ 36.13 WITNESSES.
   (A)   Calling witnesses. It shall be the duty of the judge to summon all
persons whose testimony may be deemed essential as witnesses at the trial and
to enforce their attendance by attachment, if necessary. The fees of witnesses
shall be the same as those fixed for witnesses in trials before Associate
Circuit Judges and shall be taxed as other costs in the case. When a trial
shall be continued by the judge, it shall not be necessary to summon any
witnesses who may be present at the continuance; but the judge shall orally
notify such witnesses as to whether the party may require to attend before him
or her on the day set for trial to testify in the case and enter the names of
such witnesses on his or her docket, which oral notice shall be valid as a
summons.
   (B)   Police officer or other officer as witness. If prosecutions before the
judge for misdemeanors arise under ordinances of the city, any police officer
or other executive officer shall be a competent witness in the case; but no
such police officer or executive officer shall be entitled to any witness fee
in such case.
   (C)   Arresting officers to attend as witnesses without summons. Officers
shall attend upon notice as witnesses against persons whom they have caused to
be arrested, without being summoned to do so; and, upon their failure to appear
at the time of the trial, may be attached and punished for contempt as
witnesses summoned.
(Prior Code, § 125.130)
§ 36.14 ARREST WITHOUT WARRANTS; PROCEDURE.
   The Chief of Police or other police officer of the city may, without a
warrant, make arrests of any person who commits an offense in his or her
presence or who he or she has reasonable grounds to believe has committed an
offense, but such officer shall, before the trial, file a written complaint
with the judge hearing violations of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 125.140)
§ 36.15 ATTORNEY TO PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS.
   The City Attorney is hereby designated by the city to prosecute the
violations of the ordinances of the city before the judge hearing the
violations of the ordinances of the city. The salary or fees of the attorney
and his or her necessary expenses incurred in such prosecutions shall be paid
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 125.150)
§ 36.16 SERVICE ON CITY AND AFFIDAVIT BY CITY.
   (A)   Service on city. Notices and process arising in the municipal court
which are necessary to be served on the city shall be served on the City
Prosecutor.
   (B)   Affidavit by city. Whenever any affidavit shall become necessary to be
made on the part of the city, the City Prosecutor shall cause the same to be
made by some person to whom the facts are known.
(Prior Code, § 125.160)
§ 36.17 TRIAL BY JURY; WHEN.
   (A)   Any person charged with the violation of an ordinance of the city
shall be entitled to a trial by jury as in prosecutions for misdemeanors before
a judge.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a defendant accused of a violation of a municipal
ordinance has the right to a trial by jury and demands such trial by jury, the
judge shall certify the case to the presiding judge of the Circuit Court
serving the city for assignment in the manner provided by state law.
      (2)   Proceedings in the case shall be had as if the case was originally
commenced under the practice and procedure applicable before Circuit Judges
with there being no right of trial de novo; but the sufficiency of plaintiffs
petition shall be adjudged according to the procedures under RSMo. Chapter 517.
(Prior Code, § 125.170)
§ 36.18 JUDGE TO BE TRIER OF FACT.
   In any trial for the violation of an ordinance of the city, all issues of
fact shall be tried by the judge except where trial by jury is authorized by
law and the defendant or his or her attorney requests a trial by jury.
(Prior Code, § 125.180)
§ 36.19 PAROLE OR PROBATION WHEN GRANTED; CERTIFICATE; CONDITIONS OF PROBATION;
MODIFICATION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any judge hearing violations of municipal ordinances may, when in his
or her judgment it may seem advisable, grant a parole or probation to any
person who shall plead guilty or who shall be convicted after a trial before
such judge. When a person is placed on probation, he or she shall be given a
certificate explicitly stating the conditions on which he or she is being
released.
   (B)   In addition to such other authority as exists to order conditions of
probation, the court may order conditions which the court believes will serve
to compensate the victim of the crime, any dependent of the victim, or society
in general. Such conditions may include, but need not be limited to:
      (1)   Restitution to the victim or any dependent of the victim in an
amount to be determined by the judge; and
      (2)   The performance of a designated amount of free work for a public or
charitable purpose or purposes, as determined by the judge.
   (C)   A person may refuse probation conditioned on the performance of free
work. If he or she does so, the court shall decide the extent or duration of
the sentence or other disposition to be imposed and render judgment
accordingly. Any county, city, person, organization, or agency or employee of a
county, city, organization, or employee of a county, city, person,
organization, or agency charged with the supervision of such free work or who
benefits from its performance shall be immune from any suit by the person
placed on parole or probation or any person deriving a cause of action from him
or her if such cause of action arises from such supervision of performance,
except for intentional torts or gross negligence. The services performed by the
probationer or parolee shall not be deemed employment within the meaning of the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 288.
   (D)   The court may modify or enlarge the conditions of probation at any
time prior to the expiration or termination of the probation term.
(Prior Code, § 125.190)
§ 36.20 APPEALS; TRIAL DE NOVO.
   In any case tried before the judge, except where there has been a plea of
guilty or the case has been tried with a jury, the defendant shall have a right
of trial de novo before a Circuit Judge or upon assignment before an Associate
Circuit Judge. An application for a trial de novo shall be filed within ten
days after judgment and shall be filed in such form and perfected in such
manner as provided by Supreme Court rule. In any case tried with a jury before
an Associate Circuit Judge, a record shall be made and appeals may be had upon
that record to the appropriate Appellate Court. The record shall be kept in a
manner provided by state law or Supreme Court rule.
(Prior Code, § 125.200)
§ 36.21 RECOGNIZANCE AND FORFEITURES.
   In case of a breach of any recognizance entered into before the judge
hearing violations of the ordinances of the city, the same shall be deemed
forfeited and the judge shall cause the same to be prosecuted against the
principal and surety, or either of them, in the name of the city as plaintiff.
Such action shall be prosecuted before a Circuit Judge or Associate Circuit
Judge. All monies recovered in such action shall be paid over to the City
Treasury to the General Revenue Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 125.210)
§ 36.22 FINE; INSTALLMENTS ALLOWED; COMMUTED TO IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   When a fine is assessed for violation of an ordinance, it shall be
within the discretion of the judge to provide for the payment of the fine on an
installment basis under such terms and conditions as he or she may deem
appropriate.
   (B)   When any person shall refuse or be unable to pay any fine and costs
assessed against him or her, the judge shall have power to commute such fine
and costs to imprisonment in the city jail, which shall be credited up to a
rate of $10 of such fine and costs for each day’s imprisonment, the specific
rate to be within the discretion of the judge.
(Prior Code, § 125.220)
§ 36.23 CITY ORDINANCES; EVIDENCE; JUDICIAL NOTICE OF.
   In the trial of violations of the ordinances of the city, a copy of a city
ordinance which is certified by the City Clerk shall constitute prima facie
evidence of such ordinance. If such certified copy is on file with the Clerk of
the Municipal Division and readily available for inspection by the parties, the
judge may take judicial notice of such ordinance without further proof.
(Prior Code, § 125.230)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Fees for search of a sewer and/or water problem
Combined Waterworks and Sewerage System
   
50.15   Water and sewer systems combined
   
50.16   Revenues to be kept separate; order of payments; records
   
50.17   Transfer of funds
   
50.18   Services deemed furnished both to occupant and owner of premises
   
50.19   Services outside corporate limits; rates
   
50.20   Interference with systems prohibited
User Charge System
   
50.35   Purpose
   
50.36   Definitions
   
50.37   Annual revenues
   
50.38   Deposit in funds
   
50.39   Fiscal year balances
   
50.40   Revision of rates
Lead Ban
   
50.55   Purpose
   
50.56   Application
   
50.57   Policy
   
50.58   Definitions
   
50.59   Exemptions
   
50.60   Lead banned from drinking water plumbing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 FEES FOR SEARCH OF A SEWER AND/OR WATER PROBLEM.
   (A)   There is hereby established service fees, as set forth below, to be
paid by its customers to the city whenever the city is requested to search out
a sewer and/or water problem only to discover that the problem is with the
customer’s lines.
 
Procedure                           Fees
Use of city equipment and personnel $75
Use of equipment and personnel from The amount of fees incurred from other
other sources                       sources
 
   (B)   Unless otherwise paid, the City Clerk is authorized and directed to
include such fees on the customers next occurring monthly utility bill.
(Ord. 32, passed 9-4-2007)
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
§ 50.15 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS COMBINED.
   The existing waterworks system and the existing sewage system of the city
shall henceforth be operated and maintained as a combined waterworks and sewage
system and said combined system shall include all future improvements and
extensions, whether the same be made to the waterworks system or to the
sewerage system or to both said systems, it being the purpose of the city to
avail itself of the benefits and to assume the obligations imposed upon it by
the provisions of the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 700.010)
§ 50.16 REVENUES TO BE KEPT SEPARATE; ORDER OF PAYMENTS; RECORDS.
   It shall be the mandatory duty of the city and its proper officials:
   (A)   To segregate the revenues derived from the operation of said combined
waterworks and sewerage system from all other revenues or funds of said city;
to hold such funds separate and distinct from all other funds of the city; and,
if such funds shall be deposited in any bank, to maintain such deposits as an
account separate and distinct from all other bank accounts thereof;
   (B)   Such revenues shall be devoted, first, to the payment of the expenses
of operating and maintaining such system; second, to the payment of any and all
bonds or other obligations payable from such revenues; third, to the
establishment of a proper depreciation reserve for the benefit of such system;
fourth, to the fulfillment of any covenants or agreements contained in any
ordinance which may have authorized outstanding revenue bonds for the benefit
of such system; and, fifth, for the payment of the cost of improvements and
extensions to such system;
   (C)   (1)   To install and maintain proper books of records and accounts
entirely separate from all other records and accounts of the city in which
correct entries shall be made of all dealings or transactions of or in relation
to the properties, business, and affairs of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system. Such accounts shall show the amount of the revenues received
from the system, the application of such revenues, and all financial
transactions in connection therewith.
      (2)   At least once a year such accounts shall be audited properly by a
public accountant employed for that purpose to be paid for from the revenues
received from the system. Such audits shall, at all times, during usual
business hours, be open to the examination and inspection by any taxpayer or
any user of the services of the system or any holder of any bonds issued
pursuant to said statute or by anyone acting for or on behalf of such taxpayer,
user, or bondholder.
      (3)   Such books of records and accounts and such audits shall conform to
any reasonable and valid covenant or agreement with respect thereto set out in
any ordinance which may authorize the issuance of bonds pursuant to said law;
and
   (D)   To perform all duties with respect to the operation of said combined
waterworks and sewerage system or with respect to the revenues derived or to be
derived from the operation thereof, imposed by law, or set out in any
reasonable and valid covenant and agreement contained in any ordinance which
shall authorize the issuance of revenue bonds under said law.
(Prior Code, § 700.020)
§ 50.17 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   No transfer of any funds derived from the operation of said combined
waterworks and sewerage system to any other funds of the city shall be made,
except by action of the Board of Aldermen and no such transfers shall be made
unless all expenses of operation and maintenance of said system shall have been
paid, unless the principal of and the interest on all bonds due at the time of
said transfer shall have been paid and unless all covenants and agreements
requiring the payment of money, set out in the ordinance authorizing any
outstanding revenue bonds, shall have been met and unless all obligations
requiring the payment of money, set out in the ordinance authorizing any
outstanding revenue bonds, shall have been met and unless all obligations
requiring the payment of money payable from such revenues then due shall have
been met.
   (B)   No payments of any indebtedness or expenses incurred by the city,
other than those stated in this section, shall be made from the revenues
derived from the operation of said combined waterworks and sewerage system
unless such revenues shall have been transferred to other funds of the city or
under the conditions prescribed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.030)
§ 50.18 SERVICES DEEMED FURNISHED BOTH TO OCCUPANT AND OWNER OF PREMISES.
   Sewerage services or water and sewerage services combined shall be deemed to
be furnished to both the occupant and the owner of the premises receiving such
services and the city shall have the power to sue the occupant or owner or both
or such real estate in a civil action to recover any sums due for such
services, plus a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 700.040)
§ 50.19 SERVICES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS; RATES.
   Rates charged for sewerage services or water services to premises outside
the corporate boundaries of the city may exceed those charged for services to
premises within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 700.050)
§ 50.20 INTERFERENCE WITH SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person, other than one acting by assent of a duly authorized
official of said city, who shall climb the tower of the waterworks system or
who shall willfully molest, disturb, break, damage, or in any manner wrongfully
interfere with or injure the engine, boiler, pump, tower, tank, water gates, or
valves, mains, pipes, fireplugs, hydrants, or any other appliances or machinery
belonging to the waterworks of this city or shall in any manner impede the flow
of water through any of said mains or pipes within the said city shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who shall willfully molest or in any manner wrongfully
interfere with or damage the sewer disposal plants of the sewer system of said
city shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 700.060)
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 50.35 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who use the city’s water system. The proceeds
of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose of operating and
maintaining, replacing, and for retiring the debt for such public water system.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 50.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
system for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are necessary for
managing and maintaining the system to achieve the capacity and performance for
which the system was designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances that are necessary during the useful life of the
system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   RETIRING OF DEBT. The paying off of principal, interest, and all other
financial obligations on all loans or financial contracts associated with the
city’s water system.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated.
   USER. All users of the city’s water system whose lot, parcel of real estate,
building, place of business, or service is located within or out of the city
limits.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total water service charge which is levied
in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation and
maintenance, replacement of appurtenances, and the retirement of debt of the
city’s water system.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATER SYSTEM. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment, recycling,
transmission, and distribution of water. These include transmission and
distribution lines, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable water supply such
as standby treatment units and any works, including site acquisition of land,
that will be part of the treatment process.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 50.37 ANNUAL REVENUES.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
the costs of annual operation and maintenance, replacement of appurtenances,
and all costs associated with debt retirement associated with financing the
water system that the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user
charge system.
   (B)   The total user charge designated for operation and maintenance,
replacement of the water system appurtenances, and the retirement of debt shall
be established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 50.38 DEPOSIT IN FUNDS.
   In accordance with §§
50.39 and
50.40(A), the total user charges collected shall be deposited in three separate
non-lapsing funds, as established by this chapter, and funded annually in
conjunction with the preparation of the annual budget and providing for the
payment of cost associated with the operation of the following accounts.
   (A)   The operation and maintenance account shall be designated for the
specific purpose of defraying operation and maintenance costs of the water
system. Deposits to this account shall be made annually from the operation and
maintenance revenue generated from the sale of water.
   (B)   The replacement of appurtenances account shall be designated for the
purpose of ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the water system.
Deposits to this account shall be made annually from the replacement revenue
generated from the sale of water.
   (C)   (1)   The debt retirement account shall be an account designated for
the purpose of paying off principal plus any interest on loans and/or financial
contracts associated with the city’s water system, thereby fulfilling the
obligations under the financial contracts.
      (2)   Deposits to this account shall be made annually from the debt
retirement revenue in amounts needed to reflect the retirement of debt or
acquisition of new debt.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 50.39 FISCAL YEAR BALANCES.
   (A)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance, replacement
of appurtenances, and debt retirement accounts shall be carried over to the
same accounts in each subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other
purposes than those designated for these accounts.
   (B)   Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet
temporary shortages in these funds shall be returned to their respective
accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for such.
   (C)   The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 50.40 REVISION OF RATES.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall review the user charge system at least
annually and revise its user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the
system generates adequate revenues to pay the cost of operation and
maintenance, replacement of system appurtenances, and the retirement of debt
and continues to provide for the proportional distribution of cost among users.
   (B)   After the Board of Aldermen perform their user charge system review,
if the Board moves or resolves to change its user charge rates, notice will be
provided to each user of the change in user charge rates and when the new user
charge rates will be in effect.
(Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009)
LEAD BAN
§ 50.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Ban the use of the lead materials in the public drinking water system
and private plumbing connected to the public drinking water system; and
   (B)   Protect city residents from the lead contamination in the city’s
public drinking water system and their own private plumbing systems.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 50.56 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public drinking
water system of the city.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 50.57 POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted by the water purveyor.
It is the purveyor’s intent to ban the use of lead based material in the
construction or modification of the city’s drinking water system or private
plumbing connected to the city’s system. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement the lead ban.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the water purveyor or his or her authorized
representative, lead based materials have been used in new construction or
modifications after January 4, 2014, due notice shall be given to the customer.
The customer shall immediately comply by having the lead based materials
removed from the plumbing system and replaced with lead free materials. If the
lead based materials are not removed from the plumbing system, the water
purveyor shall have the right to discontinue water services to the premises.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 50.58 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   LEAD BASE MATERIALS. Any material containing lead in excess of the
quantities specified in the definition for LEAD FREE below.
   LEAD FREE.
      (1)   When used with respect to solder and flux, refers to solders and
flux containing not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   When used with respect to pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings,
and fixtures, refers to pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, and fixtures
containing not more than a weighted average of 0.25% lead.
   PUBLIC DRINKING WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner, operator, or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 50.59 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exemptions from this chapter:
   (A)   Pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, or fixtures, including
backflow preventers, that are used exclusively for non-potable services such as
manufacturing, industrial processing, irrigation, outdoor watering, or any
other uses where the water is not anticipated to be used for human consumption;
and (SDWA 1417 (a)(4)(A))
   (B)   Toilets, bidets, urinals, fill valves, flushometer valves, tub
fillers, fire hydrants, shower valves, service saddles, or such distribution
main gate valves that are two inches in diameter or larger.
(SDWA 1417 (a)(4)(B))
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 50.60 LEAD BANNED FROM DRINKING WATER PLUMBING.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where lead based materials were used in new construction or
modifications of the drinking water plumbing after January 4, 2014.
   (B)   If a premises is found to be in violation of division (A) above, water
service shall be discontinued until such time that the drinking water plumbing
is lead free.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-6-2017)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Methods of connection to city water mains
   
51.02   Water rates; user rate structure
   
51.03   Introduction of fluoride into public water supply
Water Bills, Deposits, and Collections
   
51.15   Application for water service; deposit
   
51.16   Collections
   
51.17   Temporary vacancies
   
51.18   Use
   
51.19   Finances
   
51.20   Tampering with water meter
Water Use
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Connection to public water system
   
51.37   Permit for construction
   
51.38   Permit required
   
51.39   Classes of permits; application
   
51.40   Costs for installation, repair, and replacement
   
51.41   Independent service connections
   
51.42   Construction
   
51.43   Notice to Water Superintendent
   
51.44   Excavations
   
51.45   Damaging public water system
   
51.46   Inspection
   
51.47   Violations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 METHODS OF CONNECTION TO CITY WATER MAINS.
   (A)   No connection or repair of an existing connection to the water mains
of the city shall be made by any person without a written permit issued by the
City Clerk for such new connection or the repair of an existing connection.
   (B)   All work done in connection with a new connection or the repair of an
existing connection shall be done under the supervision and direction of the
authorized representative of the Water Department of the city and all work
shall be done in a manner and method approved by him or her.
   (C)   All pipes used in original connections or as replacements as repairs
of existing connections between the water main and the meter box shall be made
of copper.
   (D)   All new connections and repair of all other connections shall be done
at the cost of the property owner or person seeking the connection or repair,
and said party shall pay for all labor and material used in connection with
said installation or repair, except that the city will furnish, at the cost of
the city, the installation of a meter box, meter box lid, and meter yoke which
shall remain the property of the city.
   (E)   In addition to the permit hereinbefore mentioned, the person making
the connection or repair shall obtain from the City Clerk a permit for making
excavations in the streets and pay the fee therefor as required by other
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 705.080) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER RATES; USER RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on
their use of the water system as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to the
city.
   (B)   All water charges of the city shall consist of both a monthly minimum
charge based on the size of the opening of the water meter in use plus a
monthly water user charge based on the monthly amount of water usage as
measured by the water meter in use.
   (C)   (1)   The current monthly minimum charges for users with meters
located within the city limits, now or which shall hereafter be connected with
or served by the water system of the city shall be based on the size of meter
opening as follows.
 
Size of Meter Opening                       Minimum Monthly Charge
3/4 inch = equal to minimum charge          $6.69
1 inch = equal to 1.78 by minimum charge    $11.91
1 1/2 inches = equal to 4 by minimum charge $26.76
2 inches = equal to 7.1 by minimum charge   $47.50
 
      (2)   The current monthly water user rate charge for users with meters
located within the city limits, now or which shall hereafter be connected with
or served by the water system of the city, shall be at the rate of $0.07 per
gallon, or $7 per 1,000 gallons, as provided for in §
50.40.
   (D)   The monthly minimum charges and the monthly water user rate charges
for users with meters located outside of the city limits will be at rates
established for such users.
(Prior Code, § 705.090) (Ord. 37, passed 8-4-2008; Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009,
As passed by the Board of Alderman at their meeting held on March 2, 2015 Sub
Section (D) to remain as written)
§ 51.03 INTRODUCTION OF FLUORIDE INTO PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city’s water company is hereby authorized and directed to provide
the means and to proceed with the introduction of the fluoride ion into the
public drinking water supply of the city in such quantities as are required to
provide throughout the pipe distribution system a fluoride concentration of
approximately one part fluoride per 1,000,000 parts of water.
   (B)   The city’s water company shall keep an accurate record of the amount
of fluoride-bearing chemical applied to the quantities of water treated and
cause such analytical tests to be made for fluoride (in terms of the element F)
in the untreated and treated water as it shall be directed to do by the state’s
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 710.010)
   (C) So long as the natural untreated fluoride levels remain at or above the
recommended levels, no additional fluoride needs to be added.
   (D)   As of the February 6, 2023, no additional premises located outside the
city limits are to be furnished city-provided utilities through its combined
water and sewer system.
((CCM) Cooper County Meeting on 3-7-2016; Ord. 114, passed 2-6-2023)
WATER BILLS, DEPOSITS, AND COLLECTIONS
§ 51.15 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No water service shall be furnished from the waterworks system of the
city to any premises, whether within or without the city limits, until a
written application for water service has been submitted to and approved by the
City Clerk. An application shall be required concerning premises never before
furnished water service from said system and concerning premises already
connected to said system when there has been a change of ownership or occupancy
of such premises or change of user from that for which water service was
previously supplied.
   (B)   The application shall be in a form obtainable from the City Clerk;
shall set forth the name of the applicant, the address, or other information
locating the premises to be served; shall state whether applicant is the owner
or occupant of said premises; and the purpose for which water service is to be
furnished that is for residential, commercial, or other use. Such application
shall be signed by the owner or occupant of the premises to be served.
   (C)   An application from any person who or organization which has failed to
make payment of any of his or her or its taxes or other debts due to the city
at the time of such application as submitted to the City Clerk shall not be
accepted and approved until such default has been extinguished.
   (D)   If the applicant is the owner of the premises to be furnished with
water service, then with the delivery of the application to the City Clerk, the
applicant also shall deliver to the City Clerk the sum of $150, which sum shall
be retained by city without interest as security for the payment of the account
incurred for water service furnished to the premises for which application for
which water service is made.
   (E)   If the applicant is not the owner of the premises to be furnished with
water service, then with the delivery of the application to the City Clerk,
applicant shall deliver to the City Clerk the sum of $200, which sum shall be
retained by the city, without interest, as security for the payment of the
account incurred for water service furnished to the premises for which
application for which water service is made.
   (F)   The application shall not be accepted by the City Clerk unless the sum
required to be paid is deposited at the time the application is submitted, and
accompanies such application. The City Clerk shall give the applicant a receipt
for the money so deposited. If the statement of account for water service is
not paid within the time required under this subchapter, the amount of such
account shall be deducted from said deposit. Upon discontinuance of water
service due to vacation of or change in owner of the premises served, the
balance of said deposit shall be returned to the depositor.
(Prior Code, § 705.010) (Ord. 71, passed 1-7-2013) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due on the first of each month, payable to the
office of the City Clerk. If not paid by the close of business day on the tenth
of each month, they shall be considered delinquent and a penalty of 15% of the
unpaid water bill will be added and the amount so due shall bear interest from
the date of delinquency until paid.
   (B)   Should the city, in its discretion, enter into an agreement with the
occupant of the premises as to how the delinquency might be cured, the city
being under no obligation to do so, then it is expressly understood that the
owner of the premises, if different from the occupant, shall not be liable for
sums due for more than 90 days of service.
   (C)   Water bills shall be deemed to be furnished to both the occupant and
the owner of the premises and when the occupant or owner fails to pay, the city
shall refuse to provide any water service to the property with a delinquent
charge even in the name of a subsequent tenant or new owner of the property
until the delinquency or arrearage has been paid. However, when an occupant’s
account is delinquent more than 90 days, the owner shall not be liable for sums
due for more than 90 days of service.
   (D)   In addition, if such charges become delinquent and remain unpaid for a
period exceeding 90 days of service, there shall be a lien upon any land within
the corporate limits of the city so charged, upon the Board of Aldermen by way
of its authorized representative, the Mayor, or his or her designate of the
city, of filing with the Recorder of Deeds in the county, a notice of
delinquency. The governing board, through its authorized representative, the
Mayor, or his or her designate of the city, shall file with the Recorder of
Deeds a similar release notice when the delinquent amounts, plus interest and
any recording fees or attorney’s fees have been paid in full. A lien created
hereunder may be enforced by suit or foreclosure.
   (E)   In the event water service has been discontinued due to the failure to
make payment, water service will not be reconnected until all arrearages have
been paid along with a $75 reconnection fee.
   (F)   Once all arrearages and the reconnection fee has been paid,
reconnection will occur as quickly as possible, after sufficient notice, on a
regular business day and during regular working hours between Monday and
Friday.
(Ord. 33, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 50, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 71, passed 1-7-2013)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 TEMPORARY VACANCIES.
   When property is temporarily vacant, the owner or occupant of the property
shall have the right to request that water service be discontinued during the
time of temporary vacancy, only if there is no delinquency as to the property
which the owner or occupant is requesting to be discontinued. On property which
is not delinquent, there will be no charge for services while temporarily
discontinued. Upon application to the City Clerk by owner or occupant for water
service as previously provided for herein, the property may be reconnected but
only upon payment of a reconnection fee of $25 for reconnecting the meter. Only
waterworks employees will be permitted to turn water on or off.
(Prior Code, § 705.030) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 USE.
   Patrons shall not allow water to be taken from their premises.
(Prior Code, § 705.040) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 FINANCES.
   All revenues derived from water service or operation or management of the
waterworks system shall be kept in a separate fund and all warrants or expense
of operation, improving, extending, and maintaining said system shall be drawn
on such fund.
(Prior Code, § 705.050) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 TAMPERING WITH WATER METER.
   No person other than a waterworks employee will be permitted to operate or
maintain a water meter of the city with the exception of an emergency at the
property owner or occupant’s location and when specifically authorized by the
Mayor, City Clerk, or waterworks employee. Any unauthorized person who tampers
with or causes to be tampered with the city’s water meter, including the valve
which regulates flow of the water through the water meter, shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Prior Code, § 705.060) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER USE
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that serves at least 15
service connections or regularly serves at least 25 residents on a year-round
basis.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. 
      (1)   Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement
between a public water system and any other source or system through which it
is possible to introduce into any part of the public water system any used
water, industrial fluid, gas, or substance other than the intended potable
water with which the system is supplied.
      (2)   Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections,
swivel, or change-over devices and any other temporary or permanent devices
through which or because of which, backflow can or may occur are considered
CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions in an
aqueous solution.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   A system for provision to the public of piped water for human
consumption, if the system has at least 15 service connections or regularly
serves at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year.
      (2)   The system includes any collection, treatment, storage, or
distribution facilities used in connection with the system.
      (3)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a community water system or a non-
community water system.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage, and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. Each individual connection of a user to a water main or
pipe for the purpose of conveying water to a point of use.
   SERVICE LINE. Any water line or pipe connected to a public water supply’s
distribution main or pipe that conveys water to a point of use. Each SERVICE
LINE is owned and maintained by the customer at that service connection and
such line beginning at the customer’s side of the meter.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Water Works who is in responsible
charge of the operation and maintenance of the public water supply serving the
city.
   USER. All users of the city’s water system whose lot, parcel, or real
estate, building, place of business, or service is located within or out of the
city limits.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. All piping, conduits, valves, hydrants, storage
facilities, pumps, and other appurtenances, excluding service connections,
which serve to deliver water from a water treatment plant or source to the
public.
   WATER MAIN. Any water main line or pipe that conveys water to a point of use
from a water treatment plant, source, or water storage facility. WATER MAINS
are owned and maintained by the city.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city. Each individual service connection shall have such a WATER METER.
   WATER TREATMENT. A facility that uses specific processes such as
sedimentation, coagulation, filtration, disinfections, aeration, oxidation, ion
exchange, fluoridation, or other processes that serve to add components or to
alter or remove contaminants from a water supply source.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 47-A, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 51.36 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, residence, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located access to a public water system within 500 feet of the
property line is hereby required to connect to such facilities, in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter, within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a privately owned public water
system in the city’s jurisdiction, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the Water Superintendent. The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the city which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Water Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $500
dollars shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Water
Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   When a public water system becomes available, customers that
connect must physically disconnect from the existing private system (well), in
accordance with Chapter 52 of this Code. The well shall then be properly
plugged in accordance with guidelines established by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources Division of Geology and Land Survey (DGLS) and outlined in
state regulation 10 C.S.R. 23 - 3.110, as amended, unless the owner wants to
keep it functional for uses other than providing drinking water. A well may
only be kept if it remains physically disconnected from the public water
supply’s distribution system, has a functional pump, is connected to an
electrical service, and is pumped at least once in a 12-month period.
      (2)   Upon connecting to the public water system, the appropriate DNR
Regional Office shall be notified, in writing, that the connection(s) have been
completed.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Building permit and inspection fees, see §
151.17
§ 51.38 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public water system or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of water system connection permits:
      (1)   For residential service; and
      (2)   For commercial and/or industrial service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Water Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of $100 dollars for a residential permit and $200 dollars for a commercial
and/or industrial permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application
is filed.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 COSTS OF INSTALLATION, REPAIR, AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   All costs for labor and materials for the installation of a new meter
set connection to the city’s water system, which includes a yoke; meter;
register; electronic sending device, if one is being used; and a meter box with
lid, shall be done at the cost of the property owner or person seeking the
connection and shall immediately become the property of the city.
   (B)   All costs for repair or replacement of an existing user meter set
shall be done at the cost of the city.
   (C)   All pipes used in original connections or as replacement as repairs to
existing connections between the water main and the meter set shall be made of
copper.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 47-A, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 51.41 INDEPENDENT SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   A separate and independent service connection shall be provided for every
residential, commercial, and/or industrial user after the effective date of the
ordinance incorporated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 47-A, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 51.42 CONSTRUCTION.
   The size, alignment, material used in the construction of new or the
replacement of the existing public water system, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the most recent edition of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources (MDNR), “Public Drinking Water Program, Design
Guide for Community Public Water Supplies”. A permit to construct, issued by
the MDNR, will be received prior to construction, alteration, or extension of
the water system.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 NOTICE TO WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The applicant for a public water system connection permit shall notify the
Water Superintendent when the service line is ready for inspection and
connection to the water system. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Water Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for public water system improvements, replacements, or
repairs shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect
the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the city.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45 DAMAGING PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is part of the public water system.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.46 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Water Superintendent or duly authorized employees of
the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Water Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the public water system
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 51.47 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.45, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 dollars for
each violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned to the
city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 and
51.15 through 51.20 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and subject to the
general penalty provisions provided in the code of ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 705.070)
   (C)   Any person violating §
51.45 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-6-2009)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   General policy
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.04   Survey and investigations
   
52.05   Type of protection required
   
52.06   Where protection is required
   
52.07   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.08   Installation
   
52.09   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.10   Violations
§ 52.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Protect the public potable water supply from contamination or
pollution by containing within the consumer’s internal distribution system or
private water system contaminants or pollutants which could backflow through
the service connection into the public potable water supply system; and
      (2)   Promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross-connection, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures, and industrial-process systems.
   (B)   Application. This chapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. This chapter will be reasonably interpreted by the water
purveyor. It is the water purveyor’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of
hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (1)   The water purveyor shall be primarily responsible for protection of
the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water service and
maintain the program to control cross-connections. The water purveyor and
consumer are jointly responsible for preventing contamination of the water
system.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the water purveyor or his or her authorized
representative, cross-connection protection is required through either piping
modification or installation of an approved backflow prevention device, due
notice shall be given to the consumer. The consumer shall immediately comply by
providing the required protection at his or her own expense; and failure,
refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to provide such protection
shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until
such protection has been provided.
(Prior Code, § 710.020)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air-gap separation on the main service line to a
facility.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device, or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation, or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTTONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a
form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional,
or plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air-gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner, operator, or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 710.030)
§ 52.03 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the water purveyor
and as required by the laws and regulations of the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the water purveyor and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
water purveyor as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 710.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open, at all reasonable times, to the
water purveyor or his or her authorized representative for the conduction of
surveys and investigations or water use practices within the consumer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections
to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or pollutants could
backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the water purveyor or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices within his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system.
(Prior Code, § 710.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this chapter shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists as follows.
   (A)   An approved air-gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device or an approved double-check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water may be polluted with
substances that could cause pollutional hazards not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 710.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system service premises where, in the
judgment of the water purveyor or the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
actual or potential hazards to the public potable water system exist. The type
and degree of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard.
   (B)   (1)   An approved air-gap separation or reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the water purveyor or the state’s
Department of Natural Resources, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises or the materials used in connection with the activities or materials
stored on the premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross-connection occur even though such cross-connection may
not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required to be
installed.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the water purveyor and the state’s
Department of Natural Resources;
         (b)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (c)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspection for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
         (d)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
         (e)   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion.
         (f)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; and
         (g)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled such that if backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious
health hazard may result.
   (C)   (1)   The following types of facilities in the table in division (C)
(2) below fall into one or more of the categories of premises where approved
air-gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device is
required by the water purveyor and the state’s Department of Natural Resources
to protect the public water supply and must be installed at these facilities
unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated
or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the water purveyor and the
state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Approved backflow prevention devices are required for the following
facilities:
Auxiliary water systems                               A.G., R.P.D.
Beverage bottling plants                              A.G., R.P.D., or D.C.A.*
Car washing facilities                                R.P.D.
Cold storage plants                                   A.G., R.P.D.
Film laboratories                                     A.G., R.P.D.
Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, morgues,   A.G., R.P.D.
autopsy facilities
Industries using toxic substances                     R.P.D.
Irrigation systems, separate from domestic systems,
such as parks, playgrounds, cemeteries, golf courses, A.G., R.P.D.
schools, estates
Laundries and laundromats                             R.P.D.
Lawn sprinkling systems adjunct to domestic systems   D.C.A.
Nursing or convalescent homes and clinics             D.C.A.
Packing houses                                        A.G., R.P.D.
Power plants                                          R.P.D.
Sewage treatment plants                               A.G., R.P.D.
Stockyards                                            R.P.D.
Water loading stations                                A.G., R.P.D.
*A.G. refers to air-gap, R.P.D. refers to reduced pressure backflow device,
and D.C.A. refers to double-check valve assembly.
 
      (3)   The water purveyor and the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
at its discretion, may require a device at other facilities dangerous to public
health.
(Prior Code, § 710.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this chapter shall be of a
model or construction approved by the water purveyor and the state’s Department
of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Air-gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
      (2)   A double-check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the water purveyor and shall
appear on the current “list of approved backflow prevention devices”
established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the water purveyor at
the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for inspection
and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of this chapter
so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will satisfactorily protect
the water system. Whenever the existing device is moved from its present
location or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the water purveyor
finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be
replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 710.080) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the water purveyor and
shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter as close to the meter as is reasonably practical and prior to any other
connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no
part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
(Prior Code, § 710.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this chapter are installed to have inspections,
tests, and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule or more
often where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air-gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double-check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned, and repaired whenever
needed and at least every 30 months.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned, and repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
   (B)   Inspections, tests, and overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by a state
certified backflow prevention device tester.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this section are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (D)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs, and overhauls shall be made
available to the water purveyor upon request.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
water purveyor.
(Prior Code, § 710.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The water purveyor shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by this chapter is not installed, tested,
and maintained in a manner acceptable to the water purveyor or if it is found
that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this chapter to the satisfaction of the water purveyor.
(Prior Code, § 710.110)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Use of public sewer required
   
53.03   Private sewage disposal; street repairs, partial or full width
   
53.04   Building sewers and connections
   
53.05   Use of public sewers
   
53.06   Protection from damage
   
53.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.08   Rates for sewer service
   
53.09   Rules and regulations adopted
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or other agency
owning land within the municipality applying for a sewer service.
   BOARD. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Pilot Grove, Missouri.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   MUNICIPALITY (“CITY”). The City of Pilot Grove of the State of Missouri.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. A discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STATE DIRECTOR. The State Director of Rural Development for Missouri, United
States Department of Agriculture, or his or her successor.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewer Works of the City
of Pilot Grove, Missouri, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 715.010) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 53.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may be in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer
of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 715.020) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; STREET REPAIRS, PARTIAL OR FULL WIDTH.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
53.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the inspector.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary by the inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of $ 10 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
inspector. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within four
hours of the receipt of notice by the inspector if received in the forenoon and
within 18 hours of receipt of notice if received in the afternoon. The
inspection shall be made as soon as practical after receipt of such notice from
the applicant.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such times a public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system, as provided in this section, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State or County
Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 715.030) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the inspector.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector. A permit and
inspection fee of $100 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and $200 for an industrial/commercial sewer permit shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear or another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials, of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe jointing,
testing, and back filling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions, utilization of industry appropriate
materials in a good and workmanship like manner and/or in a manner consistent
with MDNR regional office guidance will apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the buildings and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or, in the absence of code
provisions, utilize industry appropriate materials in a good and workmanship
like manner and/or in a manner consistent with MDNR regional office guidance.
      (2)   All such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
inspector before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard,
streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 715.040) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the inspector. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the inspector, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/1 as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   (a)   Any waters or wastes having any of the following shall be
subject to the review of the Superintendent:
            1.   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts
per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city.
         (b)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
            1.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight;
            2.   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the inspector that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the inspector will give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials,
of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity
of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F (0°C) and 150°F (65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the inspector;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the inspector for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the inspector as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the inspector in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes, and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
work; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section and, which in the judgment of
the inspector, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the inspector may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   If the inspector permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the inspector and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the inspector and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the inspector, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the inspector. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.)
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 715.050) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 715.060) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 53.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The inspector and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The inspector or
his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the inspector or duly authorized employees of the
company shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the private properties owner and the said owner shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the employees and employees shall indemnify the said owner
against loss or damage to its property by employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in § 710.050(H).
   (C)   The inspector and other duly authorized employees of the inspector
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 715.070) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 RATES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   The charge for sewer services of the city for all premises located
within the city limits now or which shall hereafter be connected with or
serviced by the sewer system of the city (now combined with the waterworks
system of the city) shall consist of a sewerage flow rate charge of $1.01175
per gallon, per month, or any part thereof, for all water used as provided by
and through a meter located within the city limits for both residential and
commercial customers. These charges shall be due, payable, and collected at
such times and in the manner as now prescribed or as may hereafter be
prescribed, and are in addition to those charges imposed for the connection of
premises to the city’s sewer system.
   (B)   These sewer charges and rates are to apply to services and water
provided beginning with the billing cycle for the month of April 2009.
   (C)   The Board of Alderman hereby binds and determines that the rates,
fees, and charges for the use and services of the sewerage system of the city
necessary and adequate at this time to meet the requirements of RSMo. §§
250.010 to 250.250, inclusive, as amended, are as herein before specified.
   (D)   All water and meter readings shall be obtained from the water usage
meter readings obtained by the city, and bills for sewerage services shall be
rendered monthly as such services accrue. The City Clerk, or other officer or
representative of the city designated to prepare and render bills for sewerage
services, shall calculate monthly the amount of each bill and shall render
monthly to each customer a bill for such sewerage services. All such bills
shall be due and payable at the office of the city during the regular hours of
business from and after the date of the rendition thereof.
   (E)   If any bill for sewerage services shall remain due and unpaid after
ten days from the date of the rendition thereof, an additional charge of 15% of
the total utility and other billed charges shall be added thereto.
   (F)   (1)   If any bill for sewerage service shall be and remain past due
and unpaid for as long as 25 days, such service to the customer shall be
discontinued and shall not be reconnected until all past due bills are paid in
full, together with a reconnection charge of $75.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the user of any
such delinquency and said City Clerk shall proceed immediately to cause sewer
service to the customer to be discontinued.
   (G)   (1)   Application for sewerage services shall be made to the City
Clerk or other person designated by the city by the owner or occupant of the
property to be served, and upon the approval of such application, such
applicant shall have the right to connect with the city’s sewerage system, all
costs of such connection to be borne by such applicant.
      (2)   The city may hereafter prescribe a connection charge to be paid by
any such applicant at the time of his or her application.
   (H)   (1)   The occupant and user of the premises receiving sewerage service
and the owner of said premises shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
such services rendered on said premises.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall have power to sue the occupant or the owner,
or both, of such real estate in a civil action to receive any sums due for such
services, plus a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court.
   (I)   No free sewerage service shall be furnished to any premises, or the
owner or occupant thereof, except to the city itself, and in the event that the
revenues derived by the city from the sewerage system shall at any time prove
insufficient to pay the interest on and principal of the sewerage system
revenue bonds of the city issued to construct, extend or improve such system or
any parts thereof, and to establish and maintain reasonable reserves as
provided in the ordinance authorizing the issuance of such bonds, then the user
will thereafter pay a fair and reasonable charge for all sewerage services
furnished the user or any of its departments by the sewerage system, and such
payments will continue so long as the same may be necessary in order to prevent
any default in the payment of the interest on or principal of the sewerage
system revenue bonds of the city or while any such default shall exist.
   (J)   (1)   The user of each premise receiving sewer sendee from the
sewerage system shall be responsible for the proper use thereof. Plumbing
facilities that are to be connected to the sewerage system shall be installed
in accordance with the National Plumbing Code and shall be inspected for
compliance with said Code by a designated representative of the city before any
such connection is made.
      (2)   No grease, petroleum products, milk, whey, paints, acids,
chemicals, metals, animal wastes, food products, wet wipes, or other materials
detrimental to the sanitary sewer facilities or sewage treatment processes
shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 46, passed 4-6-2009; Council meeting on 6-9-2014 with attached notes;
Ord. 112, passed 10-3- 2022) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Non-payment of water bill, see §
51.16
§ 53.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The rules and regulations contained in this chapter are hereby adopted to
govern the sewer services furnished by the municipality in a uniform manner for
the benefit of the municipality and its sewer users. They are subject to change
from time to time. All such changes must be approved by the State Director of
the Rural Development, United States Department of Agriculture, or his or her
successor, so long as the municipality has unpaid obligations which are held by
or insured by the United States of America. If any portion of these rules shall
be declared invalid by competent authority, such voidance shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions.
(Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §§
53.02 through
53.06 and
53.07, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
   (C)   As described in §
53.08, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to tamper with any sewer line,
or make any connection to the sewerage system for the city without written
permission from the city, or to reconnect service when service has been
discontinued for non-payment of a bill for service until such bill, including
the reconnection charge, has been paid in full. Upon conviction, there shall be
imposed a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 715.080) (Ord. 111, passed 8-8-2022; Ord. 112, passed 10-3-2022)
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Solid waste storage
   
54.03   Collection of solid waste
   
54.04   Transportation of solid waste
   
54.05   Disposal of solid waste
   
54.06   Rules and regulations
   
54.07   Prohibited practices
   
54.08   Bonds
   
54.09   Service charges for collection and disposal of solid waste
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED INCINERATOR. An incinerator which complies with all current
regulations of the responsible local and state air pollution control agencies.
   BULKY RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/or
non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional, or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste transportation
vehicles by solid waste collectors with the equipment available therefor.
   COLLECTION. Removal of solid waste from its place of storage to the
transportation vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste generated from a source other than a
dwelling unit.
   CONTRACTOR. Such person, firm, or corporation as may be contracted with to
provide solid waste transportation and disposal for the city.
   CURBSIDE. A location adjacent to and not more than five feet from any
street.
   DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste materials from the construction or
destruction of residential, industrial, or commercial structures.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the solid waste management program of the city, or
his or her authorized representative.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic or paper sacks with a
capacity of 20 to 39 gallons or, if specifically designated for storage of
solid waste, a maximum of 55 gallons.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. Units of multiple-
housing facilities may be billed as DWELLING UNITS upon request by the owner of
said DWELLING UNITS.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Any waste or combination of wastes, as determined by the
Hazardous Waste Management Commission, by rules and regulations, which, because
of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics, may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness, or pose a present or potential threat to the health of humans or the
environment.
   MAJOR APPLIANCES. Clothes washers and dryers, water heaters, trash
compactors, dishwashers, conventional ovens, ranges, stoves, wood stoves, air-
conditioners, refrigerators, and freezers.
   MULTIPLE-HOUSING FACILITY. A housing facility containing more than one
dwelling unit under one roof.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, association, or
corporation. As applied to partnerships or associations, the word includes the
partners or members thereof; and as applied to corporations, it includes the
officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible for the act referred
to.
   PROCESSING. Incinerating, composting, baling, shredding, salvaging,
compacting, and other processes whereby solid waste characteristics are
modified or solid waste quantity is reduced.
   PROHIBITED ITEMS. Items which are eliminated by state law from being
disposed of in a solid waste disposal area including, but not limited to, major
appliances, waste oil, lead acid batteries, waste tires, and the like as the
same may be now or hereafter defined by state law.
   REFUSE. Solid waste.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance and
operation of dwelling units.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, and other discarded materials including, but
not limited to, solid and semi-solid waste materials resulting from industrial,
commercial, agricultural, governmental, and domestic activities, but does not
include hazardous waste, as defined in RSMo. §§ 260.360 to 260.432; recovered
materials; overburden; rock; tailings; matte; slag; or other waste material
resulting from mining, milling, or smelting. SOLID WASTE does not include yard
waste, as defined herein.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The process of discarding or getting rid of unwanted
material. In particular, the final disposition of solid waste by humans.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The entire solid waste system of storage,
collection, transportation, processing, and disposal.
   STORAGE. Keeping, maintaining, or storing solid waste from the time of its
production until the time of its collection.
   TRANSPORTATION. The transporting of solid waste from the place of collection
or processing to a solid waste processing facility or solid waste disposal
area.
   YARD WASTES. Leaves, grass clippings, yard, and garden vegetation and
Christmas trees. The term does not include stumps, roots, or shrubs with intact
root balls.
(Prior Code, § 230.010)
§ 54.02 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, or business, industrial, or agricultural establishment producing
solid waste within the corporate limits of the city shall provide sufficient
and adequate containers for the storage of all solid waste, except bulky
rubbish and demolition and construction waste, to serve each such dwelling unit
and/or establishment and to maintain such solid waste containers at all times
in good repair.
   (B)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, business, industrial, or agricultural establishment shall place all
solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers and shall maintain
such solid waste containers and the area surrounding them in a clean, neat, and
sanitary condition at all times. Accumulation of waste in suitable containers
shall not be stored upon any site in the city for a period longer than ten
days.
   (C)   Residential solid waste shall be stored in containers of not more than
65 gallons nor less than 20 gallons in nominal capacity, except that
residential solid waste may be stored in trash bags of adequate strength in a
size not to exceed 65 gallons. All containers, including bags, shall be
leakproof and waterproof, fly-tight, and properly covered, tied, or enclosed,
except when depositing waste therein or removing the contents thereof.
Containers other than bags shall have handles, bails, or other suitable lifting
devices or features. Containers other than bags shall be of a type originally
manufactured for residential solid waste with tapered sides for easy emptying.
They shall be of lightweight and sturdy construction. The weight of any
individual container, including bags and its contents, shall not exceed 50
pounds. Galvanized metal containers or rubber, fiberglass, or plastic
containers which do not become brittle in cold weather may be used in addition
to bags. Disposable solid waste containers with suitable frames or containers
as approved by the city may also be used for storage of residential solid
waste. Galvanized metal containers or rubber, fiberglass, or plastic containers
with suitable frames or containers as approved by the city may also be used for
storage of residential solid waste.
   (D)   Commercial solid waste shall be stored in solid waste containers as
approved by the Board. The containers shall be waterproof, leakproof, and shall
be covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or removing the
contents thereof and shall meet all requirements as set forth by §
54.06.
   (E)   Tree limbs less than four inches in diameter and brush shall be
securely tied in bundles not larger than 48 inches long and 18 inches in
diameter when not placed in storage containers. The weight of any individual
bundle shall not exceed 50 pounds.
   (F)   Yard wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon the
premises served, upon adjacent premises, or upon adjacent public rights-of-way.
The weight of any individual container and contents shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   (G)   Solid waste containers which are not approved will be collected
together with their contents and disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 230.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The city shall provide for the collection of solid waste as follows.
      (1)   Collection of residential solid waste. The city shall provide for
the collection of residential solid waste in the city, provided however, that
the city may provide the collection service by contracting with a person,
county, or other city or a combination thereof for the entire city or portions
thereof as deemed to be in the best interests of the city.
      (2)   Other collections. The city may, at its discretion, provide
commercial solid waste collection services upon specific application of the
owners or persons in charge thereof. However, in the event that such
application is not made or approved, it shall be the duty of such establishment
to provide for collection of all solid waste produced upon any such premises in
a manner approved by city. If and when the city does provide commercial
collection service, the provisions herein concerning such service shall apply.
   (B)   All solid waste from premises to which collection services are
provided under contract with the city shall become the property of the
collection agency upon being loaded into the transportation equipment.
   (C)   Solid waste containers as required by this chapter for the storage of
residential solid waste shall be placed at curbside for collection but shall
not be so placed until after 6:00 p.m. on the day next preceding the regularly
scheduled collection day. Containers shall be removed from curbside no later
than 8:00 p.m. on the day of collection. No alley service shall be allowed
under the terms of this chapter, except as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Solid waste collectors, employed by the city or a solid waste
collection agency operating under contract with the city, are hereby authorized
to enter upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste
therefrom as required by this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter
dwelling units or other residential buildings for the purpose of collecting
residential solid waste.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupants of each dwelling unit
to prepare, package, and deliver solid waste to curbside for collection as
prescribed in this chapter and as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of each commercial, industrial,
institutional, or other non-residential generator of solid waste to prepare,
package, and store solid waste so generated as prescribed by this chapter and
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of every solid waste collector to abide
by this chapter and receive and transport solid waste in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   The following collection frequencies shall apply to collections of
solid waste within the city.
      (1)   All residential solid waste, other than bulky rubbish, shall be
collected at least once weekly.
      (2)   At least 160 hours shall intervene between collections.
      (3)   All commercial solid waste shall be collected once weekly and shall
be collected at such lesser intervals as may be fixed by the Board upon a
determination that such lesser intervals are necessary for the preservation of
the health and/or safety of the public.
   (I)   Residential solid waste containers shall be stored upon the
residential premises. Except as provided in division (C) above, all solid waste
containers stored out-of-doors shall be stored behind any building located on
the tract of land. Commercial solid waste containers shall remain in the
location from which they are to be serviced except while being serviced.
   (J)   All solid waste collectors operating under contract with the city or
otherwise collecting solid waste within the city limits shall be responsible
for the collected solid waste from the point of collection to the point of
disposal, provided the solid waste was stored in compliance with the applicable
sections of this chapter. Any spillage or blowing litter caused as a result of
the duties of the solid waste collector shall be collected and placed in the
transportation vehicle by the solid waste collector.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation collecting
and disposing of rubbish, garbage, or waste material from premises in the
residential districts or premises in any commercial district which abuts or
adjoins a residential district in the city to make such collection or dispose
of rubbish, garbage, or waste materials between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
   (L)   Tree limbs and yard wastes, as described in §
54.02(E) and (F) respectively, shall be placed at the curb or alley for
collection. Solid waste containers, as required by this chapter for the storage
of other residential solid waste, shall be placed at the curb or alley at the
rear of the building for collection. Any solid waste containers, tree limbs,
yard wastes, or other solid waste permitted by this chapter to be placed at the
curb or alley for collection shall not be so placed until the regularly
scheduled collection day.
(Prior Code, § 230.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe,
clean, and sanitary condition and shall be so constructed, maintained, and
operated as to prevent spillage of solid waste therefrom.
      (2)   All vehicles to be used for transportation of solid waste shall be
constructed with watertight bodies and with covers which shall be an integral
part of the vehicle or shall be a separate cover of suitable material with
fasteners designed to secure all sides of the cover to the vehicle and shall be
secured whenever the vehicle is transporting solid waste or, as an alternative,
the entire bodies thereof shall be enclosed with only loading hoppers exposed.
      (3)   Provided however, other vehicles may be used to transport bulky
rubbish which, because of its size or weight, is not susceptible to being
loaded or unloaded in vehicles described above, but in no event shall such
vehicles be operated without adequate cover or binding to prevent spillage or
waste therefrom and in accordance with the rules and regulations made by the
Board.
   (B)   Permits shall not be required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of
earth and rock material from grading or excavation activities. However, all
such material shall be conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks, or receptacles so
constructed and maintained that none of the material being transported shall
spill upon the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Transportation and disposal of demolition and construction wastes
shall be in accordance with this section and §
54.05.
(Prior Code, § 230.040)
§ 54.05 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Solid wastes shall be deposited at a processing facility or disposal
area approved by the city and complying with all requirements of the state’s
Solid Waste Management law, RSMo. §§ 260.200 to 260.254, and the rules and
regulations adopted thereunder. The city may designate the processing or
disposal facility to be utilized by persons holding permits under this chapter.
   (B)   The Board may classify certain wastes as hazardous wastes which will
require special handling and shall be disposed of only in a manner acceptable
to the Board which will meet all local, state, and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 230.050)
§ 54.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director may make, amend, revoke, and enforce reasonable and
necessary rules and regulations governing, but not limited to:
      (1)   Preparation, drainage, and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid
waste containers;
      (2)   Specifications for solid waste containers including the type,
composition, equipment, size, and shape thereof;
      (3)   Identification of solid waste containers, and of the covers
thereof, and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any;
      (4)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the contents thereof, and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers;
      (5)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers;
      (6)   Sanitation, maintenance, and replacement of solid waste containers;
      (7)   Schedules of and routes for collection and transportation of solid
waste;
      (8)   Collection points of solid waste containers;
      (9)   Collection, transportation, processing, and disposal of solid
waste;
      (10)   Processing facilities and fees for the use thereof;
      (11)   Disposal facilities and fees for the use thereof;
      (12)   Records of quantity and type of wastes received at processing and/
or disposal facilities; and
      (13)   Handling of special wastes such as toxic wastes, sludge, ashes,
agriculture, construction, bulky items, tires, automobiles, oils, greases, and
the like.
   (B)   The City Clerk or such other City Official who is responsible for
preparing utility or other service charge billings for the city is hereby
authorized to make and promulgate reasonable and necessary rules and
regulations for the billing and collection of solid waste collection and/or
disposal service charges, as hereinafter provided for, subject to the approval
of the Board.
   (C)   A copy of any and all rules and regulations made and promulgated under
the provisions hereof shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 230.060)
§ 54.07 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than his or her
own without the written consent of the owner of such container and/or with the
intent of avoiding payment of the service charge hereinafter provided for solid
waste collection and disposal;
   (B)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection and transportation
equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their
duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the
city, those of a solid waste collection agency operating under contract with
the city, or any duly licensed collector;
   (C)   Burn solid waste unless an approved incinerator is provided and a
variance has been obtained from the appropriate air pollution control agency;
   (D)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved by the city and the state’s Division of Health;
   (E)   Engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing, or
disposing of solid waste within the corporate limits of the city without a
permit from the city, or operate under an expired permit, or operate after a
permit has been suspended or revoked; and
   (F)   To place or dispose of any solid waste in a container owned or leased
by the city except for the intended purpose of such container as a convenience
of a person or persons utilizing a city park.
(Prior Code, § 230.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.08 BONDS.
   The Board may require performance or payment bonds of any solid waste
collection agency prior to issuing permits to so operate.
(Prior Code, § 230.080)
§ 54.09 SERVICE CHARGES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed for the collection and disposal of solid
wastes and for the improvement of the general public and environment a service
charge for each dwelling unit and each commercial establishment to which such
service shall be provided under the provisions of this chapter. Said service
charge for collection of residential solid waste shall be $15.40 per dwelling
unit, per calendar month. The service charge for commercial establishments
shall be negotiated between the contractor for the city and the owner of the
commercial unit, based on the quantity and characteristics of the material, the
point of pickup, and the time required to collect the solid waste. The fees
charged are subject to the approval of the Director and, in the event the
Director and the commercial unit cannot agree as to the charges, then the Board
of Aldermen may set the charge, in which case the charges shall be binding on
both the contractor and the owner of the commercial unit.
   (B)   The system of services established by the provisions of this chapter
hereof is designated as an integral part of the city’s program of health,
sanitation, and general welfare to be operated as an adjunct to the city’s
system for providing all manner of utilities services. The city may enforce
collection of such charges by bringing proper legal action against the occupant
of the premises which has received such services to recover any sums due for
such services plus a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court plus
the cost of such action.
   (C)   The service charge herein provided for is hereby imposed upon the
occupant of each occupied dwelling unit and the billing therefor shall be made
to the person contracting for city utilities of any kind to each such dwelling
unit. In the event a dwelling unit is not serviced by city utilities or in the
absence of information that such person is neither the owner nor the tenant of
such dwelling unit, then billing therefore shall be made to the owner. Service
charges shall be payable to the city.
   (D)   (1)   There is herein imposed for the collection and disposal of solid
waste and for the improvement of general public environment a service charge
for each dwelling unit and each commercial establishment to which said service
shall be provided under provisions of this chapter. Said service charge for
collection of residential solid waste shall be the monthly charge of $15.40 per
dwelling unit negotiated between the city and its solid waste collection
contractor plus 10% to compensate the city for use of city employees in the
billing and collection of solid waste collection fees and payment to the solid
waste collection contractor. The service charge for commercial establishments
shall be negotiated between the contractor of the city and the owner of the
commercial unit based on the quantity and characteristics of the material, the
point of pickup, and the time required to collect the solid waste. Fees charged
are subject to approval of the director and in the event the director and the
commercial unit cannot agree as to the charges, then Board of Aldermen may set
the charge in which case the charges shall be binding on both contractor and
the owner of the commercial unit.
      (2)   The city shall include the foregoing service charges on its utility
bill as a separate charge which shall be paid on or before the tenth of the
following month. In the event the service charge is not paid, solid waste
collection services may be terminated in the same manner as is provided for the
termination of non-payment of a water bill.
   (E)   The city shall provide any contractor hereunder with a monthly
statement showing the number of dwelling units, together with all additions and
deletions.
(Prior Code, § 230.090) (Ord. 18, passed 11-7-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
76.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
      
77.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
78.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Payment in lieu of fine
General Licensing Provisions
   
70.15   Financial responsibility required
   
70.16   Display of false evidence of insurance; confiscation of false evidence
   
70.17   Alteration, production, or sale of invalid insurance card
Operator Licensing Requirements
   
70.30   Driving while license suspended or revoked
   
70.31   Operation of motor vehicle without proper license prohibited;
motorcycles; special license
   
70.32   Prohibited uses of license
   
70.33   Exemptions from license law
Vehicle Licensing Requirements
   
70.45   State vehicle license plates required
   
70.46   Method of displaying license plates
   
70.47   Unauthorized plates, tags, stickers, and signs
   
70.48   License plates on vehicles displayed for sale
   
70.49   Certificate of ownership required for registered vehicles
   
70.50   Transfer of certificate of ownership upon sale of vehicle
   
70.51   Removal of plates on transfer of vehicle; use by purchaser
   
70.52   Sale by dealer
   
70.53   False information by dealer
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or ALLEYWAY. Any street with a roadway of less than 20 feet in width.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle manufactured and used exclusively
for off-highway use which is 50 inches or less in width, with an unladen dry
weight of 600 pounds or less, traveling on three, four, or more low pressure
tires, with a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A vehicle publicly owned and operated as an
ambulance, or a vehicle publicly owned and operated by the state highway
patrol, Police or Fire Department, Sheriff, Constable or Deputy Sheriff,
traffic officer, or any privately owned vehicle operated as an ambulance when
responding to emergency calls.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along the highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, or office
buildings, and public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on
one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS (or TRAFFIC) DISTRICT. All streets and portions of streets
within the area described by city ordinance as such.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight (or passengers).
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that is designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable
of exceeding speeds of 20 mph, as defined by RSMo. § 304.034.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it under RSMo. §
304.029, as amended, and 49 C.F.R. § 571.3, as amended.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle not operated exclusively upon
tracks, except farm tractors and motorized bicycles. (See VEHICLE.)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any two-wheeled or three-wheeled device having an
automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity of not more than 50
cubic centimeters which produces less than three gross brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph on
level ground.
   MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLE. A coaster, scooter, or any other alternatively
fueled device, or other motorized vehicle that is self-propelled by a motor or
engine, gas, diesel, or electric, and which is not otherwise defined in the
municipal code of the city.
   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD. A self-propelled device that has a motor, gas, diesel,
or electric engine; a deck on which a person may ride and at least two tandem
wheels in contact with the ground or manufactured surface; and which is not
otherwise defined in the municipal code of the city.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible, at all times, while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the uses of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. STATE HIGHWAY is defined as a highway maintained by the
state as a part of the state highway system.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   UTILITY VEHICLE. Any vehicle manufactured and used exclusively for off-
highway use which is 63 inches or less in width, with an unladen dry weight of
1,850 pounds or less, traveling on four or six wheels, to be used primarily for
landscaping, lawn care, or maintenance purposes, as defined in RSMo. §
301.010.
   VEHICLE. Any mechanical device on wheels designed primarily for use, or
used, on highways, except motorized bicycles, vehicles propelled or drawn by
horses or human power, or vehicles used exclusively on fixed rails or tracks,
cotton trailers, or motorized wheelchairs operated by handicapped persons.
(Prior Code, § 300.010) (Ord. 36, passed 8-4-2008; Ord. 60, passed 11-1-2010)
§ 70.02 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF FINE.
   (A)   (1)   Liability for the following designated offenses occurring with
the city may be discharged by payment to the city in lieu of a fine, the
designated amount listed below:
 First Offense Second and Subsequent Offenses
                                   First Offense Second and Subsequent Offenses
1. Double parking                  $10           $25
2. Parking in prohibited place     $10           $25
3. Driving on sidewalk             $10           $25
4. Parking at wrong angle          $10           $25
5. Parking on wrong side of street $10           $25
6. Parking on sidewalk             $10           $25
7. Parking too close to fireplug   $10           $25
8. Improper parking by not parking
in roadway with right-hand wheels  $10           $25
parallel within 18 inches of
right-hand curb
 
      (2)   Payment of the above amount shall be made within 48 hours after
receipt of the notice of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above and
who does not tender payment within the allotted time may still discharge their
liability by payment to the city of $10 for each violation.
      (2)   If said payment is not made after ten days, a complaint may be
filed against the offender in the municipal division of the city and the
violator shall be subject to penalties therein prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 300.020) (Ord. 120, passed 12-9-2024)
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 70.15 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state or required
to be registered in this state shall operate the vehicle, or authorize any
other person to operate the vehicle registered, or maintain registration of a
motor vehicle, or permit another person to operate such vehicle, upon the
streets or the alleys of this city, unless the owner maintains the financial
responsibility as required in this section which conforms to the requirements
of the laws of this state.
      (2)   Furthermore, no person shall operate a motor vehicle owned by
another with the knowledge that the owner has not maintained financial
responsibility unless such person has financial responsibility which covers the
person’s operation of the other’s vehicle. However, no owner shall be in
violation of this division (A) if he or she fails to maintain financial
responsibility on a motor vehicle which is inoperable or being stored and not
in operation.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY shall
mean the ability to respond in damages for liability on account of accidents
occurring after the effective date of proof of said financial responsibility,
arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of a motor vehicle, in the
amount of $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one
accident, and, subject to said limit for one person, in the amount of $50,000
because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident.
   (C)   Proof of financial responsibility may be shown by any of the
following:
      (1)   An insurance identification card issued by a motor vehicle insurer
or by the Director of Revenue of the state for self-insurance. A motor vehicle
liability insurance policy, a motor vehicle liability insurance binder, or
receipt which contains the name and address of the insurer, the name and
address of the named insured, the policy number, the effective dates of the
policy and a description by year and make of the vehicle, or at least five
digits of the vehicle identification number or the word “fleet”
      (2)   A certificate of the State Treasurer of a cash or security deposit
according to RSMo. § 303.240; and
      (3)   A surety bond according to RSMo. § 303.230.
   (D)   Proof of financial responsibility shall be carried, at all times, in
the insured motor vehicle or by the operator of the motor vehicle if the proof
of financial responsibility is effective as to the operator rather than to the
vehicle. The operator of an insured motor vehicle shall exhibit the insurance
identification card on the demand of any peace officer, commercial vehicle
enforcement officer, or commercial vehicle inspector who lawfully stops such
operator or investigates an accident while that officer or inspector is engaged
in the performance of the officer’s or inspector’s duties.
   (E)   However, no person shall be found guilty of violating this section if
the operator demonstrates to the court that he or she met the financial
responsibility requirements of RSMo. § 303.025 at the time the peace officer
wrote the citation.
(Prior Code, § 390.140) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 DISPLAY OF FALSE EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE; CONFISCATION OF FALSE EVIDENCE.
   (A)   No person shall display evidence of insurance to a law enforcement
officer knowing there is no valid liability insurance in effect on the motor
vehicle as required pursuant to this subchapter, or knowing the evidence of
insurance is illegally altered, counterfeit, or otherwise invalid as evidence
of insurance.
   (B)   If the law enforcement officer issues a citation to a motor vehicle
operator for displaying invalid evidence of insurance, the officer shall
confiscate the evidence for presentation in court.
(Prior Code, § 390.150) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 ALTERATION, PRODUCTION, OR SALE OF INVALID INSURANCE CARD.
   No person shall alter an invalid insurance card to make it appear valid. No
person knowingly shall make, sell, or otherwise make available an invalid or
counterfeit insurance card.
(Prior Code, § 390.160) Penalty, see §
70.99
OPERATOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.30 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   A person commits the offense of driving while revoked if he or she operates
a motor vehicle on a highway when his or her license or driving privilege has
been canceled, suspended, or revoked under the laws of this state or any other
state and acts with criminal negligence with respect to knowledge of the fact
that his or her driving privilege has been canceled, suspended, or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 390.010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT PROPER LICENSE PROHIBITED;
MOTORCYCLES; SPECIAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for by law, it shall be unlawful for any
person, except those expressly exempted by §
70.33, to:
      (1)   Operate any vehicle upon any highway in this city unless the person
has a valid license as required by RSMo. Chapter 302 or a temporary instruction
permit issued in compliance with RSMo. § 302.130 in his or her possession;
      (2)   Operate a motorcycle or motortricycle upon any highway of this city
unless such person has a valid license that shows the person has successfully
passed an examination for the operation of a motorcycle or motortricycle as
prescribed by the Director of Revenue. The Director of Revenue may indicate
such upon a valid license issued to such person or shall issue a license
restricting the applicant to the operation of a motorcycle or motortricycle if
the actual demonstration, required by RSMo. § 302.173, is conducted on such
vehicle;
      (3)   Authorize or knowingly permit a motorcycle or motortricycle owned
by such person or under such person’s control to be driven upon any highway by
any person whose license does not indicate that the person has passed the
examination for the operation of a motorcycle or motortricycle or has been
issued an instruction permit therefor;
      (4)   Operate a motor vehicle with an instruction permit or license
issued to another person; or
      (5)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle, except when operating under an
instruction permit, as provided for in RSMo. § 302.720.
   (B)   Note: Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under
state law.
(Prior Code, § 390.020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PROHIBITED USES OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Display or to permit to be displayed, or to have in his or her
possession, any license knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been
canceled, suspended, revoked, disqualified, or altered;
   (B)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use of by another any license issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
   (C)   Display or to represent as one’s own any license not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
   (D)   Fail or refuse to surrender to the Clerk of any Division of the
Circuit Court or the Director any license which has been suspended, canceled,
disqualified, or revoked, as provided by law;
   (E)   Use a false or fictitious name or give a false or fictitious address
on any application for a license, or any renewal or duplicate thereof, or
knowingly to make a false statement;
   (F)   Knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a fraud in any
such application;
   (G)   Authorize or consent to any motor vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control to be driven by any person, when he or she has knowledge
that such person has no legal right to do so, or for any person to drive any
motor vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of RSMo. §§ 302.010 to
302.780;
   (H)   Employ a person to operate a motor vehicle in the transportation of
persons or property with knowledge that such person has not complied with the
provisions of RSMo. §§ 302.010 to 302.780; or whose license has been revoked,
suspended, canceled, or disqualified; or who fails to produce his or her
license upon demand of any person or persons authorized to make such demand;
   (I)   Operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of the restrictions
imposed in a restricted license; or
   (J)   (1)   Fail to carry his or her instruction permit, valid operator’s
license while operating a vehicle and to display instruction permit or said
license upon demand of any police officer, court official, or any other duly
authorized person for inspection, when demand is made therefor.
      (2)   Failure to exhibit his or her instruction permit or license as
aforesaid shall be presumptive evidence that said person is not a duly licensed
operator.
(Prior Code, § 390.030) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE LAW.
   The following persons are exempt from license hereunder:
   (A)   Any person while operating any farm tractor or implement of husbandry
temporarily operated or moved on a highway;
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid license issued to him or her in his or her
home state or country;
   (C)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid license issued to him or her in his or her
home state or country which allows such person to operate a motor vehicle in
the transportation of persons or property as classified in RSMo. § 302.015; or
   (D)   Convicted offenders of the Department of Corrections who have not been
convicted of a motor vehicle felony, as follows: driving while intoxicated,
failing to stop after an accident and disclosing his or her identity, or
driving a motor vehicle without the owner’s consent, may operate state-owned
trucks for the benefit of the correctional facilities, provided that such
offender shall be accompanied by a correctional officer or other staff person
in such truck.
(Prior Code, § 390.040)
VEHICLE LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.45 STATE VEHICLE LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle or trailer upon any street
or highway of this city unless such motor vehicle or trailer has properly
displayed a valid license plate or plates or temporary permit issued to the
lawful owner of the vehicle by the Department of Revenue of the state, except
that any person who is a non-resident of the state may operate or park any
motor vehicle or trailer upon any street or highway of this city; provided the
motor vehicle or trailer has been duly registered for the current year in the
state, country, or other place of which the owner is a resident; provided that,
at all times, such motor vehicle or trailer is being operated or parked upon
the streets or highways of this city, the valid license plate or plates or
temporary permit is properly displayed on such vehicle or trailer.
(Prior Code, § 390.050) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 METHOD OF DISPLAYING LICENSE PLATES.
   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be operated on any highway of this city
unless it shall have displayed thereon the license plate or set of license
plates issued by the Director of Revenue and authorized by RSMo. § 301.140.
Each such plate shall be securely fastened to the motor vehicle in a manner so
that all parts thereof shall be plainly visible and reasonably clean so that
the reflective qualities thereof are not impaired. License plates shall be
fastened to all motor vehicles except trucks, tractors, truck-tractors, or
truck-tractors licensed in excess of 12,000 pounds on the front and rear of
such vehicles not less than eight nor more than 48 inches above the ground,
with the letters and numbers thereon right side up. The license plates on
trailers, motorcycles, motortricycles, and motor scooters shall be displayed on
the rear of such vehicles, with the letters and numbers thereon right side up.
The license plate on buses, other than school buses, and on trucks, tractors,
truck-tractors, or truck-tractors licensed in excess of 12,000 pounds shall be
displayed on the front of such vehicles not less than eight nor more than 48
inches above the ground, with the letters and numbers thereon right side up, or
if two plates are issued for the vehicle pursuant to RSMo. § 301.130(5),
displayed in the same manner on the front and rear of such vehicles. The
license plate or plates authorized by RSMo. § 301.140, when properly attached,
shall be prima facie evidence that the required fees have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 390.060) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 UNAUTHORIZED PLATES, TAGS, STICKERS, AND SIGNS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or trailer on which there is
displayed on the front or rear thereof any other plate, tag, or placard bearing
any number except the plate furnished by the Director of Revenue or the placard
herein authorized and the official license tag of any municipality of this
state, nor shall there be displayed on any motor vehicle or trailer a placard,
sign, or tag bearing the words “license lost”, “license applied for”, or words
of similar import, as a substitute for such number plates or such placard.
(Prior Code, § 390.070) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 LICENSE PLATES ON VEHICLES DISPLAYED FOR SALE.
   No person shall show, exhibit, display, or have in possession for the
purpose of sale any motor vehicle bearing or displaying thereon any number or
license plates except those of the dealer or owner so displaying said motor
vehicle, provided however, that where the motor vehicle is placed on
consignment with a dealer by the owner thereof, there may be displayed a number
or license plate issued to the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 390.080) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED FOR REGISTERED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate in this city a motor vehicle
or trailer required to be registered as provided by law unless a certificate of
ownership has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 390.090) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP UPON SALE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy or sell in this city any motor
vehicle or trailer registered under the laws of this state unless at the time
of delivery thereof there shall pass between the parties a certificate of
ownership with an assignment thereof as provided in RSMo. § 301.210, as
amended, and the sale of any motor vehicle or trailer registered under the laws
of this state, without the assignment of such certificate of ownership, shall
be fraudulent and void.
(Prior Code, § 390.100) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 REMOVAL OF PLATES ON TRANSFER OF VEHICLE; USE BY PURCHASER.
   (A)   Upon the transfer of ownership of any motor vehicle or trailer, the
certificate of registration and the right to use the number plates shall expire
and the number plates shall be removed by the owner at the time of the transfer
of possession, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than the person to
whom such number plates were originally issued to have the same in his or her
possession whether in use or not; except that the buyer of a motor vehicle or
trailer who trades in a motor vehicle or trailer may attach the license plates
from the trade-in motor vehicle or trailer to the newly purchased motor vehicle
or trailer. The operation of a motor vehicle with such transferred plates shall
be lawful for no more than 30 days.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term TRADE-IN MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAILER
shall include any single motor vehicle or trailer sold by the buyer of the
newly purchased vehicle or trailer, as long as the license plates for the
trade-in motor vehicle or trailer are still valid.
(Prior Code, § 390.110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 SALE BY DEALER.
   (A)   Upon the sale of a motor vehicle or trailer by a dealer, a buyer who
has made application for registration, by mail or otherwise, may operate the
same for a period of 30 days after taking possession thereof, if, during such
period, the motor vehicle or trailer shall have attached thereto, in the manner
required by RSMo. § 301.130, number plates issued to the dealer.
   (B)   Upon application and presentation of satisfactory evidence that the
buyer has applied for registration, a dealer may furnish such number plates to
the buyer for such temporary use. In such event, the dealer shall require the
buyer to deposit the sum of $10.50, to be returned to the buyer upon return of
the number plates, as a guarantee that said buyer will return to the dealer
such number plates within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 390.120)
§ 70.53 FALSE INFORMATION BY DEALER.
   No dealer shall advise any purchaser of a motor vehicle or trailer that such
purchaser may drive such a motor vehicle or trailer without compliance with the
foregoing license requirements.
(Prior Code, § 390.130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
70.15 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $300 for each
and every violation.
(Prior Code, § 390.140)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.16 is guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 390.150)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
70.17 is guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 390.160)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
Section
Traffic Administration
   
71.01   Records of traffic violations
   
71.02   Police Department to investigate accidents
   
71.03   Traffic accident reports
   
71.04   Driver files to be maintained
   
71.05   Police Department to submit annual traffic safety report
   
71.06   City Traffic Engineer
   
71.07   Emergency and experimental regulations
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
71.20   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.21   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.22   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations
   
71.23   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted
   
71.24   Restrictions on operation of golf carts, utility vehicles, motorized
bicycles, motorized play vehicles, and motorized skateboards
   
71.25   Responsibilities of parents, guardians, and legal custodians
   
71.26   Operation of low speed vehicles on streets, roads, highways of the city
permitted subject to certain restrictions
   
71.27   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
71.28   Authorized emergency vehicles; permitted acts of drivers
   
71.29   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.30   Sirens and flashing lights emergency use; persons authorized; violation
   
71.31   Immediate notice of accident within city
   
71.32   Written report of accident
   
71.33   When driver unable to report
   
71.34   Leaving the scene of a motor vehicle accident
Violations Bureau
   
71.45   When person charged may elect to appear at Violations Bureau
   
71.46   Duties of Violations Bureau
   
71.47   Violations Bureau to keep records
   
71.48   Additional duties of Violations Bureau
Procedure on Arrest
   
71.60   Form and records of traffic citations and arrests
   
71.61   Procedure of police officers
   
71.62   Uniform traffic tickets to be issued when vehicle illegally parked or
stopped
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
§ 71.01 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person
has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each. Said record shall accumulate during at least
a five year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms. All such
records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 305.010)
§ 71.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents, to arrest, and to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged
with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Prior Code, § 305.020)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the City Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 305.030)
§ 71.04 DRIVER FILES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable record of all traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and complaints reported for each
driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned.
(Prior Code, § 305.040)
§ 71.05 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO SUBMIT ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (B)   Such report shall contain information on traffic matters in the city
as follows:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
      (3)   The plans and recommendations of the Police Department for future
traffic safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 305.050)
§ 71.06 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The Chief of
Police shall serve as City Traffic Engineer in addition to his or her other
functions and shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic as
provided in this title.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine the installation and proper
timing and maintenance of traffic-control devices, conduct engineering analyses
of traffic accidents and devise remedial measures, conduct engineering
investigation of traffic conditions, plan the operation of traffic on the
streets and highways of the city, and cooperate with other city officials in
the development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and carry out
the additional powers and duties imposed by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.060)
§ 71.07 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police, by and with the approval of the City
Traffic Engineer, is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make and
enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
      (2)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer may test traffic-control devices under
actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 305.070)
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.20 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all traffic laws of
the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in the city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of an incident, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 310.010)
§ 71.21 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall knowingly fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 310.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.22 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 310.030)
§ 71.23 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
as authorized by ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 310.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.24 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES, MOTORIZED
BICYCLES, MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES, AND MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS.
   Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the Board of Aldermen of the
city hereby allows persons to operate golf carts, utility vehicles, motorized
bicycles, motorized play vehicles, and motorized skateboards upon any street or
highway under its jurisdiction, subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   All persons operating any or all of the vehicles described in this
section upon any street or highway under the city’s jurisdiction shall have a
valid operator’s or chauffeur’s license.
   (B)   Golf carts, utility vehicles, motorized play vehicles, and motorized
skateboards shall not be operated at any time upon any state or federal
highways but may be operated upon such roadways in order to cross a portion
thereof which intersects a municipal street. No such vehicle shall cross any
highway at an intersection where the highway being crossed has a posted speed
limit of more than 45 mph.
   (C)   All golf carts, utility vehicles, motorized bicycles, motorized play
vehicles, and motorized skateboards operated on city streets under its
jurisdiction shall be equipped with adequate brakes, and when operated at any
time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any
other time when there is not sufficient natural light to render the vehicle
clearly visible at a distance of at least 500 feet shall be equipped with
adequate headlights and taillights to render said vehicle clearly visible.
   (D)   No person shall operate any of the vehicles described herein upon any
public sidewalk, bikeway, bicycle path, or trail, equestrian tail, or shared-
use path, or any private property of another without the permission of the
owner or authorized agent thereof.
   (E)   No person shall operate any of the vehicles described herein in any
manner causing excessive, unnecessary, or offensive noise which disturbs the
peace and quite of any neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to
a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
(Ord. 60, passed 11-1-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.25 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS, AND LEGAL CUSTODIANS.
   (A)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of any minor shall not
authorize or knowingly permit such minor to violate any of the provisions of §
71.24.
   (B)   If a fine is imposed upon a minor who is found to be in violation of
this section or §
71.24, the person having custody or control of the minor shall be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for payment of said fine, whether or not the
person having custody thereof knew of, or anticipated a violation of this
section or §
71.24.
(Ord. 60, passed 11-1-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 OPERATION OF LOW SPEED VEHICLES ON STREETS, ROADS, HIGHWAYS OF THE CITY
PERMITTED SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, a low speed vehicle may
be operated upon the streets, roads, or highways of the city if it meets the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   A person operating a low speed vehicle shall comply with all of the
duties applicable to the driver of any other motor vehicle except as to the
special regulations in this section and except to those provisions which by
their nature can have no application.
   (C)   The operator of a low speed vehicle shall observe all traffic laws and
local ordinances regarding the rules of the road. A low speed vehicle shall not
be operated on a street or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 35
mph. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit a low speed vehicle from
crossing a street or highway with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
   (D)   A low speed vehicle shall be exempt from the requirements of RSMo. §§
307.350 to 307.402, for the purposes of titling and registration. Low speed
vehicles shall comply with the standards in 49 C.F.R. 571.500, as amended.
   (E)   Every operator of a low speed vehicle shall maintain financial
responsibility on such low speed vehicle, as required by RSMo. Chapter 303, if
the low speed vehicle is to be operated upon the streets, highways, or roads of
the city.
   (F)   Each person operating a low speed vehicle on a street, highway, or
road of the city shall possess a valid driver’s license issues pursuant to
RSMo. Chapter 302.
   (G)   All low speed vehicles shall be manufactured in compliance with the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Standards for low speed vehicles
in 49 C.F.R. 571.500, as amended.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person
legally charged with the care or custody of a child less than 17 years old who
does not have a valid driver’s license issued pursuant to RSMo. Chapter 302 to
recklessly fail or refuse to exercise reasonable diligence in the care or
control of such child to prevent him or her from operating a low speed vehicle
on any street, highway, roadway, or sidewalk within the city or within the
boundaries of any city park or upon the private property or private roadway of
another, without the owner’s permission.
      (2)   Such conduct is deemed to be behavior of a child which is injurious
to the welfare of the child or the welfare of others.
(Ord. 36, passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.27 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state, county,
or city and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title.
(Prior Code, § 310.050)
§ 71.28 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PERMITTED ACTS OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by siren or while having at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle or a flashing blue light authorized by §
71.30.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 310.060)
§ 71.29 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 310.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.30 SIRENS AND FLASHING LIGHTS EMERGENCY USE; PERSONS AUTHORIZED;
VIOLATION.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and equipment, not otherwise defined in this title as
an authorized emergency vehicle, which are operated by any member of an
organized Fire Department, ambulance association, or rescue squad, whether paid
or volunteer, may be operated on streets and highways in this city as an
emergency vehicle under the provisions of RSMo. §
304.022, while responding to a fire call or ambulance call or at the scene of a
fire call or ambulance call and while using or sounding a warning siren and
while using or displaying thereon fixed, flashing, or rotating blue lights, but
sirens and blue lights shall be used only in bona fide emergencies.
   (B)   Permits for the operation of such vehicles equipped with sirens or
blue lights shall be in writing and shall be issued and may be revoked by the
Chief of an organized Fire Department, organized ambulance association, or
rescue squad and no person shall use or display a siren or rotating blue lights
on a motor vehicle, fire, ambulance, or rescue equipment without a valid permit
authorizing the use.
   (C)   Permit to use a siren or lights as heretofore set out does not relieve
the operator of the vehicle so equipped with complying with all other traffic
laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 310.080) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT WITHIN CITY.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the city resulting in
injury to or death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent
of $500 or more to one person shall give, or cause to be given, notice of such
accident to the Police Department as soon as reasonably possible.
(Prior Code, § 310.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.32 WRITTEN REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or total property damage
to an apparent extent of $500 or more to one person shall, within five days
after such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the Police
Department.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable when the
accident has been investigated at the scene by a police officer while such
driver was present thereat.
(Prior Code, § 310.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.33 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident, as required in §
71.31, and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of doing so, such occupant shall give, or cause to be given,
the notice not given by the driver.
   (B)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required in §
71.32 and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then the owner of the
vehicle involved in such accident shall, within five days after the accident,
make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 310.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.34 LEAVING THE SCENE OF A MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of leaving the scene of a motor vehicle
accident when being the operator or driver of a vehicle on the highways,
streets, or roads of the city or on any publicly or privately owned parking lot
or parking facility within the city generally open for use by the public and
knowing that an injury has been caused to a person or domestic animal or damage
has been caused to property, due to his or her culpability or to accident, he
or she leaves the place of the injury, damage, or accident without stopping and
giving his or her name, residence, including city and street number, motor
vehicle number, and driver’s license number, if any, to the injured party or to
a police officer, or if no police officer is in the vicinity, then to the
nearest police station or judicial officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, all peace officers shall have
jurisdiction, when invited by an injured person, to enter the premises of any
such privately owned parking lot or parking facility for the purpose of
investigating an accident and performing all necessary duties regarding such
accident.
(Prior Code, § 310.120)
VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 71.45 WHEN PERSON CHARGED MAY ELECT TO APPEAR AT VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Any person charged with an offense for which payment of a fine may be
made to the Violations Bureau shall have the option of paying such fine within
the time specified in the notice of arrest at the Violations Bureau upon
entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in court; or may have the
option of depositing required lawful bail and, upon a plea of not guilty, shall
be entitled to a trial as authorized by law.
   (B)   The payment of a fine to the Violations Bureau shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Violations Bureau,
upon accepting the prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator
acknowledging payment thereof.
(Prior Code, § 370.010)
§ 71.46 DUTIES OF VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The following duties are hereby imposed upon the Violations Bureau in
reference to traffic offenses.
   (A)   It shall accept designated fines, issue receipts, and represent in
court such violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty, waive court
appearance, and give power of attorney.
   (B)   It shall receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the persons who
must or wish to be heard in court, enter the time of their appearance on the
court docket, and notify the arresting officer and witnesses, if any, to be
present.
(Prior Code, § 370.020)
§ 71.47 VIOLATIONS BUREAU TO KEEP RECORDS.
   (A)   The Violations Bureau shall keep records and submit to the judges
hearing violations of city ordinances summarized monthly reports of all notices
issued and arrests made for violations of the traffic laws and ordinances in
the city and of all the fines collected by the Violations Bureau or the court
and of the final disposition or present status of every case of violation of
the provisions of said laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Such records shall be so maintained as to show all types of violations
and the totals of each. Said records shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 370.030)
§ 71.48 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Violations Bureau shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed by
the traffic ordinances of the city or as may be required by any laws of this
state.
(Prior Code, § 370.040)
PROCEDURE ON ARREST
§ 71.60 FORM AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS AND ARRESTS.
   (A)   The city shall provide books containing uniform traffic tickets as
prescribed by Supreme Court rule. Said books shall include serially numbered
sets of citations in quadruplicate in the form prescribed by Supreme Court
rule.
   (B)   Such books shall be issued to the Chief of Police or his or her duly
authorized agent, a record shall be maintained of every book so issued, and a
written receipt shall be required for every book. The judge or judges hearing
city ordinance violation cases may require that a copy of such record and
receipts be filed with the court.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books to individual members of the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall
require a written receipt for every book so issued and shall maintain a record
of every such book and each set of citations contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 375.010)
§ 71.61 PROCEDURE OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a
person before the municipal judge for the violation of any traffic laws, a
police officer who halts a person for such violation, other than for the
purpose of giving him or her a warning or warning notice and does not take such
person into custody under arrest, shall issue to him or her a uniform traffic
ticket which shall be proceeded upon in accordance with Supreme Court rules.
(Prior Code, § 375.020)
§ 71.62 UNIFORM TRAFFIC TICKETS TO BE ISSUED WHEN VEHICLE ILLEGALLY PARKED OR
STOPPED.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the city or by
state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number
and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify
its user and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a uniform traffic ticket
or other citation for the driver to answer to the charge against him or her
within seven days during the hours and at a place specified in the traffic
ticket.
(Prior Code, § 375.030)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of this section or §
71.24 is punishable as a violation of the municipal code of the city.
   (C)   Violation of §
71.30 constitutes an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 310.080) (Ord. 60, passed 11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
72.02   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
72.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
72.04   When official traffic-control devices required for enforcement purposes
   
72.05   Official traffic-control devices; presumption of legality
   
72.06   Traffic-control signal legend; right turn on red light
   
72.07   Pedestrian control signals
   
72.08   Flashing signals
   
72.09   Lane direction control signals
   
72.10   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   
72.11   Interference with official traffic-control devices
   
72.12   Authority to establish play streets
   
72.13   Play streets
   
72.14   City traffic engineer to designate crosswalks and establish safety
zones
   
72.15   Traffic lanes
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic-control signs,
signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
city to make effective the provisions of said ordinances and may place and
maintain such additional traffic-control devices as he or she may deem
necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under
state law or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 315.010)
§ 72.02 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the state’s Highways and Transportation
Commission or resolution adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the city. All
signs or signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as
practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 315.020)
§ 72.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
(Prior Code, § 315.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES.
   No provision of this title for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 315.040)
§ 72.05 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this title and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
title, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 315.050)
§ 72.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND; RIGHT TURN ON RED LIGHT.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and said lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, as
provided in §
72.07, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in §
72.07, are hereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none,
then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until a green
indication is shown except as provided in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as close as practicable at
the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none,
then at the entrance to the intersection in obedience to a red signal may
cautiously enter the intersection to make a right turn but shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic proceeding as directed by the
signal at the intersection, except that the state’s Highways and Transportation
Commission with reference to an intersection involving a state highway, and
local authorities with reference to an intersection involving other highways
under their jurisdiction, may prohibit any such right turn against a red signal
at any intersection where safety conditions so require, said prohibition shall
be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as
provided in §
72.07, pedestrians facing a steady red signal alone shall not enter the
roadway.
   (D)   Traffic-control signals not at intersection. 
      (1)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 315.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or appropriate symbols are in place, such signals shall indicate
as follows:
   (A)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “don’t walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
zone while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 315.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 315.080) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 LANE DIRECTION CONTROL SIGNALS.
   When lane direction control signals are placed over the individual lanes of
a street or highway, vehicular traffic may travel in any lane over which a
green signal is shown but shall not enter or travel in any lane over which a
red signal is shown.
(Prior Code, § 315.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, or which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 315.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon or any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 315.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same.
(Prior Code, § 315.120)
§ 72.13 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 315.130) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY
ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or her
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 315.140)
§ 72.15 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes
upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic
is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 315.150) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.001   Following emergency vehicle prohibited
   
73.002   Crossing fire hose
   
73.003   Vehicle shall not be driven on sidewalk
   
73.004   Limitations on backing
   
73.005   Opening and close vehicle doors
   
73.006   Controlled access
   
73.007   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
73.008   Manner of operation of motor vehicles; careful and prudent
   
73.009   Driving to the right
   
73.010   Passing regulations
   
73.011   Hand and mechanical signals
   
73.012   Stopping for school bus
   
73.013   Right-of-way at intersection; signs at intersections
   
73.014   Distance at which vehicle must follow
   
73.015   Spinning tires
   
73.016   Loud and unusual noises cause by motor vehicle or motorcycle
Processions
   
73.030   Funeral processions
   
73.031   Driving in procession
   
73.032   When permits required for parades and processions
Speed Regulations
   
73.045   State speed laws applicable
   
73.046   Regulation of speed by traffic signals
   
73.047   General speed limit
   
73.048   Slow speed regulations
   
73.049   Special speed limits on roadways
Turning Movements
   
73.060   Required position and method of turning at intersection
   
73.061   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
73.062   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
73.063   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
73.064   Limitations on turning around
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
73.075   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
73.076   One-way streets and alleys
   
73.077   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods
Stop and Yield Intersections
   
73.090   Through streets designated
   
73.091   Signs required at through streets
   
73.092   Other intersections where stop or yield required
   
73.093   Stop and yield signs
   
73.094   Vehicle entering stop intersection
   
73.095   Vehicle entering yield intersection
   
73.096   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
73.097   Stop when traffic obstructed
Alcohol-Related Offenses
   
73.110   Definitions
   
73.111   Driving while intoxicated
   
73.112   Driving with excessive blood alcohol content
   
73.113   Chemical test for alcohol content; consent implied; administration;
videotaping sobriety test
   
73.114   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in moving motor vehicle prohibited
 
   
73.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.001 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall not
follow any emergency vehicle traveling in response to an emergency call closer
than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 340.010) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.002 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 340.020) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.003 VEHICLE SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except on a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 340.060) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.004 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 340.070) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.005 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 340.080) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.006 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 340.130) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.007 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven through or within a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 340.140) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.008 MANNER OF OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; CAREFUL AND PRUDENT.
   Every person operating a motor vehicle on the highways of this city shall
drive the vehicle in a careful and prudent manner and at a rate of speed so as
not to endanger the property of another or the life or limb of any person and
shall exercise the highest degree of care.
(Prior Code, § 340.150) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.009 DRIVING TO THE RIGHT.
   (A)   Upon all public roads or highways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall
be driven upon the right-half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction pursuant to the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When placing a vehicle in position for and when such vehicle is
lawfully making a left turn in compliance with the provisions of this title;
      (3)   When the right-half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated by local ordinance as a one-way street
and marked or signed for one-way traffic.
   (B)   It is unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any highway or road which has
been divided into two or more roadways by means of a physical barrier or by
means of a dividing section or delineated by curbs, lines, or other markings on
the roadway, except to the right of such barrier or dividing section, or to
make any left turn or semi-circular or U-turn on any such divided highway,
except at an intersection or interchange or at any signed location designated
by the state’s Highways and Transportation Commission or the Department of
Transportation. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, or to vehicles owned by the
Commission or the Department.
   (C)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all other
consistent herewith shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway ahead is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
      (3)   Upon all highways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic thereon shall be driven in the right-hand lane for traffic or
as close as practicable to the right-hand edge or curb, except as otherwise
provided in RSMo. §§ 304.014 to 304.025.
      (4)   Official signs may be erected by the state’s Highways and
Transportation Commission or the highway patrol may place temporary signs
directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or allocating specified
lanes to traffic moving in the same direction and drivers of vehicles shall
obey the directions of every such sign.
      (5)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right and, except when a roadway has been divided into
traffic lanes, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half of the
main traveled portion of the roadway whenever possible.
   (D)   All vehicles in motion upon a highway having two or more lanes of
traffic proceeding in the same direction shall be driven in the right-hand
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle or when preparing to
make a proper left turn or when otherwise directed by traffic markings, signs,
or signals.
(Prior Code, § 340.160) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.010 PASSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to the limitations and
exceptions hereinafter stated.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of such driver’s vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle may overtake and pass to the right
of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a city street with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two or more lines of vehicles in each direction; or
         (c)   Upon a one-way street.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under the foregoing conditions when such movement may be
made in safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
paved or main traveled portion of the roadway. The provisions of this division
(B) shall not relieve the driver of a slow-moving vehicle from the duty to
drive as closely as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except when a roadway has been divided into three traffic lanes, no
vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the centerline of a highway or
public road in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (D)   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve of the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction; and
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, tunnel, or when approaching within 100 feet of or at any
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 340.170) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.011 HAND AND MECHANICAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of or turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after the giving of
an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein.
   (A)   An operator or driver when stopping, or when checking the speed of the
operator’s vehicle if the movement of other vehicles may reasonably be affected
by such checking of speed, shall extend such operator’s arm at an angle below
horizontal so that the same may be seen in the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   An operator or driver intending to turn the vehicle to the right shall
extend such operator’s arm at an angle above horizontal so that the same may be
seen in front of and in the rear of the vehicle and shall slow down and
approach the intersecting highway as near as practicable to the right side of
the highway along which such operator is proceeding before turning.
   (C)   An operator or driver intending to turn the vehicle to the left shall
extend such operator’s arm in a horizontal position so that the same may be
seen in the rear of the vehicle and shall slow down and approach the
intersecting highway so that the left side of the vehicle shall be as near as
practicable to the centerline of the highway along which the operator is
proceeding before turning.
   (D)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal light or signal device in good mechanical condition of a
type approved by the state highway patrol; however, when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals shall be given by such
light or device. A vehicle shall be considered as so constructed or loaded that
a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and rear when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab, or load exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereon exceeds 14 feet, which limit of 14 feet shall apply to single
vehicles or combinations of vehicles. The provisions of this division (D) shall
not apply to any trailer which does not interfere with a clear view of the hand
signals of the operator or of the signaling device upon the vehicle pulling
such trailer; provided further, that the provisions of this section as far as
mechanical devices on vehicles so constructed that a hand and arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle as above provided
shall only be applicable to new vehicles registered within this state after
January 1, 1954.
(Prior Code, § 340.180) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.012 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children and whose driver has in
the manner prescribed by law given the signal to stop shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus and shall not proceed until such school bus
resumes motion, or until signaled by its driver to proceed.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus”, in letters not less than eight inches in height. Each bus shall
have lettered on the rear in plain and distinct type the following: “state law;
stop while bus is loading and unloading”. Each school bus, subject to the
provisions of RSMo. §§ 304.050 to 304.070, shall be equipped with a mechanical
and electrical signaling device approved by the state’s Board of Education,
which will display a signal plainly visible from the front and rear and
indicating intention to stop.
   (C)   Every school bus operated to transport students in the public school
system which has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 10,000 pounds,
which has the engine mounted entirely in front of the windshield and the
entrance door behind the front wheels, and which is used for the transportation
of school children shall be equipped with a crossing control arm. The crossing
control arm, when activated, shall extend a minimum of five feet six inches
from the face of the front bumper. The crossing control arm shall be attached
on the right side of the front bumper and shall be activated by the same
controls which activate the mechanical and electrical signaling devices,
described in division (B) above. This division (C) may be cited as “Jessica’s
Law” in commemoration of Jessica Leicht and all other state school children who
have been injured or killed during the operation of a school bus.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the driver of a school
bus in the process of loading or unloading students upon a street or highway
shall activate the mechanical and electrical signaling devices, in the manner
prescribed by the state’s Board of Education, to communicate to drivers of
other vehicles that students are loading or unloading. A public school district
has the authority, pursuant to RSMo. § 304.050, to adopt a policy which
provides that the driver of a school bus, in the process of loading or
unloading students upon a divided highway of four or more lanes, may pull off
of the main roadway and load or unload students without activating the
mechanical and electrical signaling devices in a manner which gives the signal
for other drivers to stop and may use the amber signaling devices to alert
motorists that the school bus is slowing to a stop, provided that the
passengers are not required to cross any traffic lanes and also provided that
the emergency flashing signal lights are activated in a manner which indicates
that drivers should proceed with caution and, in such case, the driver of a
vehicle may proceed past the school bus with due caution. No driver of a school
bus shall take on or discharge passengers at any location upon a highway
consisting of four or more lanes of traffic, whether or not divided by a median
or barrier, in such manner as to require the passengers to cross more than two
lanes of traffic; nor shall any passengers be taken on or discharged while the
vehicle is upon the road or highway proper unless the vehicle so stopped is
plainly visible for at least 500 feet in each direction to drivers of other
vehicles in the case of a highway with no shoulder and a speed limit greater
than 60 mph and at least 300 feet in each direction to drivers of other
vehicles upon other highways, and on all highways, only for such time as is
actually necessary to take on and discharge passengers.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or overtaking a school bus which is on a different roadway,
which is proceeding in the opposite direction on a highway containing four or
more lanes of traffic, or which is stopped in a loading zone constituting a
part of, or adjacent to, a limited or controlled access highway at a point
where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 340.190) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.013 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION; SIGNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway, provided however, there is no form of traffic control at such
intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the driver of the vehicle on the right. This division (B)
shall not apply to vehicles approaching each other from opposite directions
when the driver of one of such vehicles is attempting to or is making a left
turn.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle intending to make a left turn into an alley,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction when the making of such left turn would
create a traffic hazard.
   (E)   The city may, on any section of road where construction or major
maintenance operations are being effected, fix a speed limit in such areas by
posting of appropriate signs, and the operation of a motor vehicle in excess of
such speed limit in the area so posted shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
careless and imprudent driving and a violation of §
73.008.
(Prior Code, § 340.200)
§ 73.014 DISTANCE AT WHICH VEHICLE MUST FOLLOW.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonably safe and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway.
   (B)   Vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated, except in a funeral procession or in a duly
authorized parade, so as to allow sufficient space between each such vehicle or
combination of vehicles as to enable any other vehicle to overtake or pass such
vehicles in safety.
   (C)   This section shall in no manner affect RSMo. § 304.044, relating to
distance between trucks traveling on the highway.
(Prior Code, § 340.210)
§ 73.015 SPINNING TIRES.
   No person operating a motor vehicle on the streets and highways of the city
shall operate such motor vehicle in a way that said vehicle loses traction or
that the tires on said vehicle spin or slide or that the tires, machinery, or
operating parts of said vehicle make loud and unusual noises.
(Prior Code, § 340.220) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.016 LOUD AND UNUSUAL NOISES CAUSED BY MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in such a manner that
it creates loud and unusual noises with its radio, tape player, CD player, or
other sound producing device, exhaust system, wheels, tires, or other parts and
any person so doing or disturbs the peace of another will be guilty of
violating this section and will be guilty of creating a nuisance and upon
conviction will be subject to a fine.
(Prior Code, § 340.230) Penalty, see §
73.999
PROCESSIONS
§ 73.030 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR. A person licensed as a funeral director, pursuant to
the provisions of RSMo. Chapter 333.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE or LEAD VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle equipped with at
least one lighted circulating lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens
or alternating flashing headlamps visible under normal atmospheric conditions
for a distance of 500 feet from the front of the vehicle. A hearse or coach
properly equipped may be a LEAD VEHICLE.
      ORGANIZED FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the
remains of a deceased person from a funeral establishment, church, synagogue,
or other place where a funeral service has taken place to a cemetery,
crematory, or other place of final disposition, or a funeral establishment,
church, synagogue, or other place where additional funeral services will be
performed, if directed by a licensed funeral director from a licensed
establishment.
   (B)   Driving rules.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, pedestrians and
operators of all other vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
which is a part of an organized funeral procession.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any traffic-control device or right-of-way
provision prescribed by state or local law, when the funeral lead vehicle in an
organized funeral procession lawfully enters an intersection, all vehicles in
the procession shall follow the lead vehicle through the intersection. The
operator of each vehicle in the procession shall exercise the highest degree of
care toward any other vehicle or pedestrian on the roadway.
      (3)   An organized funeral procession shall have the right-of-way at all
intersections regardless of any traffic-control device at such intersections,
except that operators of vehicles in an organized funeral procession shall
yield the right-of-way to any approaching emergency vehicle pursuant to the
provisions of law or when directed to do so by a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   All vehicles in an organized funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the procession as closely as is practical and safe under
the conditions.
      (5)   No person shall operate any vehicle as part of an organized funeral
procession without the flashing emergency lights of such vehicle being lighted.
      (6)   Any person who is not an operator of a vehicle in an organized
funeral procession shall not:
         (a)   Drive between the vehicles comprising an organized funeral
procession while such vehicles are in motion and have the flashing emergency
lights lighted pursuant to division (B)(5) above, except when required to do so
by a law enforcement officer or when such person is operating an emergency
vehicle giving an audible or visual signal;
         (b)   Join a funeral procession for the purpose of securing the right-
of-way; or
         (c)   Attempt to pass any vehicle in an organized funeral procession,
except where a passing lane has been specifically provided.
      (7)   When an organized funeral procession is proceeding through a red
signal light as permitted herein, a vehicle not in the organized funeral
procession shall not enter the intersection unless such vehicle may do so
without crossing the path of the funeral procession.
      (8)   No ordinance, regulation, or any other provision of law shall
prohibit the use of a motorcycle utilizing flashing amber lights to escort an
organized funeral procession on the highway.
(Prior Code, § 340.030) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.031 DRIVING IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(Prior Code, § 340.040) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.032 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No funeral, procession, or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or
more vehicles, except the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the
military forces of this state, and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other
regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 340.050) Penalty, see §
73.999
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.045 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except that the city may, by ordinance,
declare and determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigation
that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in
certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place
giving notice thereof, but no city ordinance shall regulate the speed of
vehicles upon controlled access highways of the state.
(Prior Code, § 320.010)
§ 73.046 REGULATION OF SPEED BY TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic
signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner
at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the
district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 320.020) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.047 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   Except where otherwise provided by signs erected pursuant to duly passed and
approved ordinances, no person shall operate a vehicle on any street in the
city in excess of 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 320.030) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.048 SLOW SPEED REGULATIONS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers may
enforce the provisions of this section by directions to drivers, and, in the
event of apparent willful disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply
with direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
operation by a driver is an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 320.040) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.049 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS ON ROADWAYS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon those portions of the roadways
which are set forth and described in
Chapter 78, Schedule I at a rate of speed in excess of that speed limit set for
such portions of the roadways by said schedule.
(Prior Code, § 320.050) Penalty, see §
73.999
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 73.060 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway,
except where multiple turn lanes have been established.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. 
      (1)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right-half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion
of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered, except where multiple
turn lanes have been established.
   (D)   Designated two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making
left turns by drivers proceeding in opposite directions have been indicated by
official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane;
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law; and
      (3)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane for a distance of more
than 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 325.010) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.061 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons, or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Prior Code, § 325.020) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.062 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-
turn and shall place proper signs at such intersections.
   (B)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 325.030) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.063 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNALS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
(Prior Code, § 325.040) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.064 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 325.050) Penalty, see §
73.999
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 73.075 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance of the city designates any one-way street or alley,
the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 330.010)
§ 73.076 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described and
designated by ordinance, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 330.020) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.077 AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT ON STREETS DURING CERTAIN
PERIODS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate streets, parts of streets, or specific lanes thereon upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period and the
opposite direction during another period of the day and shall place and
maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers, or other devices to give notice
thereof.
      (2)   The City Traffic Engineer may erect signs temporarily designating
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the
centerline of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers, or other devices so placed in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 330.030) Penalty, see §
73.999
STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS
§ 73.090 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described by ordinances of the city are
declared to be through streets for the purposes of this section and §§
73.091 through
73.097.
(Prior Code, § 335.010)
§ 73.091 SIGNS REQUIRED AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever any ordinance of the city designates and describes a through
street, it shall be the duty of the City Traffic Engineer to place and maintain
a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any
intersection a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through
street unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals, provided however, that at the intersection of two such
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of said streets as may be determined by the City Traffic Engineer upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
(Prior Code, § 335.020)
§ 73.092 OTHER INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where particular hazard exists upon other than through streets
and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any
such intersection, in which event, he or she shall cause to be erected a stop
sign at every such place where a stop is required, or whether vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different street at such intersection
as prescribed in §
73.093(A) in which event he or she shall cause to be erected a yield sign at
every place where obedience thereto is required.
(Prior Code, § 335.030)
§ 73.093 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 335.040) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.094 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by §
73.093(B) and, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such driver is moving across or within the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 335.050) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.095 VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such
sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
such driver is moving across or within the intersection, provided however, that
if such a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the intersection,
after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 335.060) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.096 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 335.070) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.097 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 335.080) Penalty, see §
73.999
ALCOHOL-RELATED OFFENSES
§ 73.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVE, DRIVING, OPERATES, or OPERATING. Physically driving or operating a
motor vehicle.
   INTOXICATED CONDITION. A person is in an INTOXICATED CONDITION when he or
she is under the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, or drug, or any
combination thereof.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or ARRESTING OFFICER. Includes the definition of law
enforcement officer in RSMo. § 556.061(32), and military police officer
conducting traffic enforcement operations on a federal military installation
under military jurisdiction in the state.
(Prior Code, § 342.010)
§ 73.111 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   A person commits the offense of “driving while intoxicated” if he or she
operates a motor vehicle while in an intoxicated or drugged condition. No
person convicted of or pleading guilty to the offense of driving while
intoxicated shall be granted a suspended imposition of sentence for such
offense, unless such person shall be placed on probation for a minimum of two
years.
(Prior Code, § 342.020) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.112 DRIVING WITH EXCESSIVE BLOOD ALCOHOL CONTENT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of “driving with excessive blood alcohol
content” if such person operates a motor vehicle in this city with 0.08% or
more by weight of alcohol in such person’s blood.
   (B)   As used in this section, “percent by weight of alcohol” in the blood
shall be based upon grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 210 liters
of breath and may be shown by chemical analysis of the person’s blood, breath,
saliva, or urine. For the purposes of determining the alcoholic content of a
person’s blood under this section, the test shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of RSMo. §§
577.020 to 577.041.
(Prior Code, § 342.030) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.113 CHEMICAL TEST FOR ALCOHOL CONTENT; CONSENT IMPLIED; ADMINISTRATION;
VIDEOTAPING SOBRIETY TEST.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle upon the public highways
of this city shall be deemed to have given consent to, subject to the
provisions of RSMo.§§ 577.020 to 577.041, a chemical test or tests of the
person’s breath, blood, saliva, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol or drug content of the person’s blood pursuant to the following
circumstances:
         (a)   If the person is arrested for any offense arising out of acts
which the arresting officer had reasonable grounds to believe were committed
while the person was driving a motor vehicle while in an intoxicated or drugged
condition;
         (b)   If the person is under the age of 21, has been stopped by a law
enforcement officer, and the law enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person was driving a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol
content of 0.02% or more by weight;
         (c)   If the person is under the age of 21, has been stopped by a law
enforcement officer, and the law enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has committed a violation of the traffic laws of the
state or any political subdivision of the state, and such officer has
reasonable grounds to believe, after making such stop, that such person has a
blood alcohol content of 0.02% or greater;
         (d)   If the person is under the age of 21, has been stopped at a
sobriety checkpoint or roadblock, and the law enforcement officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person has a blood alcohol content of
0.02% or greater;
         (e)   If the person, while operating a motor vehicle, has been
involved in a motor vehicle collision which resulted in a fatality or a readily
apparent serious physical injury, as defined in RSMo. § 556.061(44), and has
been arrested as evidenced by the issuance of a uniform traffic ticket for the
violation of any state law or county or municipal ordinance with the exception
of equipment violations contained in RSMo. Chapter 307, or similar provisions
contained in county or municipal ordinances; or
         (f)   If the person, while operating a motor vehicle, has been
involved in a motor vehicle collision which resulted in a fatality.
      (2)   The test shall be administered at the direction of the law
enforcement officer whenever the person has been arrested or stopped for any
reason.
   (B)   The implied consent to submit to the chemical tests listed in division
(A) above shall be limited to not more than two such tests arising from the
same arrest, incident, or charge.
   (C)   Chemical analysis of the person’s breath, blood, saliva, or urine to
be considered valid, pursuant to the provisions of RSMo. §§ 577.020 to 577.041,
shall be performed according to methods approved by the state’s Department of
Health by licensed medical personnel or by a person possessing a valid permit
issued by the state’s Department of Health for this purpose.
   (D)   The person tested may have a physician, or a qualified technician,
chemist, registered nurse, or other qualified person at the choosing and
expense of the person to be tested, administer a test in addition to any
administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The failure or
inability to obtain an additional test by a person shall not preclude the
admission of evidence relating to the test taken at the direction of a law
enforcement officer.
   (E)   Upon the request of the person who is tested, full information
concerning the test shall be made available to him or her.
   (F)   Any person given a chemical test of the person’s breath pursuant to
division (A) above or a field sobriety test may be videotaped during any such
test at the direction of the law enforcement officer. Any such video recording
made during the chemical test pursuant to this division (F) or a field sobriety
test shall be admissible as evidence for a violation of any municipal ordinance
or any license revocation or suspension proceeding pursuant to the provisions
of RSMo. Chapter 302.
(Prior Code, § 342.040)
§ 73.114 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOVING MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage while operating a
moving motor vehicle upon the highways.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this subchapter
is guilty of an infraction.
   (C)   Any infraction under this subchapter shall not reflect on any records
with the Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 342.050) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
73.030 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 340.030)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control devices
   
74.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalks
   
74.03   Pedestrians to use right-half of crosswalks
   
74.04   Crossing at right angles
   
74.05   When pedestrians shall yield
   
74.06   Prohibited crossing
   
74.07   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
74.08   Drivers to exercise highest degree of care
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in §§
72.06 and
72.07, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.010)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
74.05(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.020) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT-HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 345.030) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 345.040) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 WHEN PEDESTRIANS SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
74.06 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(Prior Code, § 345.050) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk upon any
street designated by ordinance.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
(Prior Code, § 345.060) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 345.070) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE HIGHEST DEGREE OF CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this title, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise the highest degree of care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 345.080) Penalty, see §
74.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
75.001   Standing or parking close to curb
   
75.002   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
75.003   Obedience to angle parking signs or markers
   
75.004   Permits for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb
   
75.005   Lamps on parked vehicles
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specific Places
   
75.020   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
75.021   Stopping, parking, or abandoning motor vehicle
   
75.022   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
75.023   Parking in alleys
   
75.024   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
75.025   Parking adjacent to schools
   
75.026   Parking prohibited on narrow streets
   
75.027   Standing or parking on one-way streets
   
75.028   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
75.029   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
75.030   Physically disabled parking
   
75.031   Regulation of commercial vehicle parking area
   
75.032   No parking of commercial motor vehicles on any street or highway
within the city limits
Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
   
75.045   City Traffic Engineer to designate curb loading zones
   
75.046   Permits for curb loading zones
   
75.047   Standing in passenger curb loading zones
   
75.048   Standing in freight curb loading zones
   
75.049   City Traffic Engineer to designate public carrier stops and stands
   
75.050   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxicabs regulated
   
75.051   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
75.065   Application of chapter
   
75.066   Regulations not exclusive
   
75.067   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
75.068   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
75.069   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets
   
75.070   Parking signs required
   
75.071   Commercial vehicles prohibited from using certain streets
 
   
75.999   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 75.001 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 350.010) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.002 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine upon what streets angle
parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets but such angle
parking shall not be indicated upon any federal-aid or state highway within the
city unless the state’s Highways and Transportation Commission has determined
by resolution or order entered in its minutes, that the roadway is of
sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free
movement of traffic.
   (B)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
(Prior Code, § 350.020) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.003 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKERS.
   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the City Traffic
Engineer for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
(Prior Code, § 350.030) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.004 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to issue special permits to
permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any
of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 350.040) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.005 LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise
and in the event there is sufficient light to reveal any person or object
within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, no lights need be
displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or
shoulder adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours
between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise and there
is not sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500
feet upon such highway, such vehicle so parked or stopped shall be equipped
with one or more lamps meeting the following requirements: At least one lamp
shall display a white or amber light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle, and the same lamp or at least one other lamp shall
display a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of the
vehicle, and the location of said lamp or lamps shall always be such that at
least one lamp or combination of lamps meeting the requirements of this section
is installed as near as practicable to the side of the vehicle which is closer
to passing traffic.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to a motor-driven cycle.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 350.050) Penalty, see §
75.999
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES
§ 75.020 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
City Traffic Engineer indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
         (h)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance (when properly signposted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers, at any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 355.010) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.021 STOPPING, PARKING, OR ABANDONING MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall park or abandon a motor vehicle in such a manner as to
interfere with the pedestrian in the use of the sidewalk and every person
deemed guilty of this offense shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park, or abandon or leave a motor vehicle on the
traveled portion of any street or road in such position that it interferes with
the normal flow of traffic on the street or road and any person guilty of so
doing shall be guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 355.015) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.022 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 355.020) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.023 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 355.030) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.024 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Repair such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 355.040) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.025 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any
school property when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with
traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 355.050) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.026 PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet,
or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the
roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 355.060) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.027 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand
side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and
when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such
left-hand side in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 355.070) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.028 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs are erected to permit such standing or parking.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway
and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 355.080) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.029 NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Prior Code, § 355.090) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.030 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any vehicle
in any stall or space designated or reserved for physically disabled persons,
as defined in RSMo. § 301.142, as amended, whether upon public or private
property open to public use, unless the vehicle bears the state license plate
or placard for the disabled, as provided for in RSMo. §§ 301.071 or 301.142, as
amended.
      (2)   The space shall be indicated by an upright sign whether on a pole
or attached to a building upon which shall be inscribed the international
symbol of accessibility and may also include any appropriate wording to
indicate that the space is reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles which
display a distinguishing license plate or card.
      (3)   The sign described in this division (A) shall also state, or an
additional sign shall be posted below or adjacent to the sign stating, the
following: “$50 to $300 fine”.
   (B)   Any vehicle operator who is not physically disabled shall not use the
handicapped parking space unless there is a physically disabled person in the
vehicle, or while the vehicle is being used to transport a physically disabled
person.
(Prior Code, § 355.100) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.031 REGULATION OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or regularly used for
carrying freight and merchandise.
      TRACTOR, TRACTOR-TRAILER, or TRUCK-TRACTOR. A self-propelled motor
vehicle designed for drawing other vehicles but not for the carriage of any
load when operating independently. When attached to a semi-trailer, it supports
a part of the weight thereof.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying property
or passengers on its own structure and for being drawn by a self-propelled
vehicle, except those running exclusively on tracks, including a semi-trailer
or vehicle of the TRAILER type so designed and used in conjunction with a self-
propelled vehicle that a considerable part of its own weight rests upon and is
carried by the towing vehicle.
   (B)   The city may designate areas within the city as commercial motor
vehicle parking areas which shall be limited in use to commercial motor
vehicles.
   (C)   Commercial motor vehicle parking areas shall be clearly marked and
posted by a sign indicating that this is a commercial motor vehicle parking
area and use of the parking area is limited to commercial motor vehicles.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for non-commercial motor vehicles to park in a
commercial motor vehicle parking area.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or an operator of a commercial motor
vehicle to park more than one unit in a commercial motor vehicle parking area.
A unit being considered a tractor, a trailer, or a trailer connected to a
tractor or a commercial motor vehicle which is not a tractor, trailer, or
tractor-trailer.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a commercial motor
vehicle to load, unload, or utilize the commercial motor vehicle parking area
for any purpose other than the parking of a commercial motor vehicle.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a commercial motor
vehicle to be parking in a commercial motor vehicle parking area for any time
in excess of 72 hours.
   (H)   (1)   Upon written application of an owner of a commercial motor
vehicle, tractor, tractor-trailer, truck tractor, or trailer specifying the
circumstances and reasons why application of this section creates an undue
hardship, the Board of Aldermen may waive the application of parts or all of
this subchapter as to certain specified vehicle or vehicles for a specified
period of time.
      (2)   An example of an undue hardship would be parking for a vehicle
necessary for construction of a building or structure in an area close to the
commercial vehicle parking area when parking for such vehicle is not otherwise
reasonably available.
(Prior Code, § 355.110) (Ord. 28.1, passed 2-2-2007) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.032 NO PARKING OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES ON ANY STREET OR HIGHWAY
WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   The following definitions are in addition to those found in §
70.01:
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
         (a)   If the vehicle has a gross combination weight rating of 26,001
or more pounds inclusive of a towed unit which has a gross vehicle weight
rating of 10,001 pounds or more;
         (b)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 or
more pounds or such lesser ratings as determined by federal regulation;
         (c)   If the vehicle is designed to transport more than 15 passengers,
including the driver; or
         (d)   If the vehicle is transporting hazardous materials and is
required to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
U.S.C.§§ 5101 et seq.).
      GROSS COMBINATION WEIGHT RATING or GCWR. The value specified by the
manufacturer as the loaded weight of a combination (articulated) vehicle, in
the absence of a value specified by the manufacturer, GCWR will be determined
by adding the GVWR of the power unit and the total weight of the towed unit and
any load thereon.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING or GVWR. The value specified by the
manufacturer as the loaded weight of a single vehicle.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. As specified in § 103 of the Hazardous Materials
Transportation Act (49 U.S.C.§§ 5101 et seq.). Fertilizers, including, but not
limited to, ammonium nitrate, phosphate, nitrogen, anhydrous ammonia, lime,
potash, motor fuel, or special fuel, shall not be considered hazardous
materials when transported by a farm vehicle provided all other provisions of
this definition are followed.
      TRACTOR, TRUCK TRACTOR, or TRUCK-TRACTOR. A self-propelled motor vehicle
designed for drawing other vehicles, but not for the carriage of any load when
operating independently. When attached to a semitrailer, it supports a part of
the weight thereof.
      TRAILER.
         (a)   Any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying property
or passengers on its own structure and for being drawn by a self-propelled
vehicle, except those running exclusively on tracks, including a semitrailer or
vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in conjunction with a self-
propelled vehicle that a considerable pail of its own weight rests upon and is
earned by the towing vehicle.
         (b)   The term TRAILER shall not include cotton trailers, as defined
in subdivision (8) of this section, and shall not include manufactured homes,
as defined in RSMo. § 700.010;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a commercial motor vehicle
on any street or highway located within the city limits.
   (C)   In the event a truck tractor would meet the definition of a commercial
motor vehicle with a trailer attached, it shall be unlawful for the truck
tractor to park on a street or highway within the city limits.
(Ord. 8, passed 3-1-2004) Penalty, see §
75.999
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
§ 75.045 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 360.010)
§ 75.046 PERMITS FOR CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall not designate or sign any curb loading zone
upon special request of any person unless such person makes application for a
permit for such zone and for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone.
The City Traffic Engineer upon granting a permit and issuing such signs shall
collect from the applicant and deposit in the City Treasury a service fee of
$10 per year or fraction thereof and may, by general regulations, impose
conditions upon the use of such signs and for reimbursement of the city for the
value thereof in the event of their loss or damage and their return in the
event of misuse or upon expiration of the permit. Every such permit shall
expire at the end of one year.
(Prior Code, § 360.020)
§ 75.047 STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed three minutes.
(Prior Code, § 360.030) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.048 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(Prior Code, § 360.040) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.049 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized and required to establish bus
stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common
carrier motor vehicles on such public streets, in such places and in such
number as he or she shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand,
or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 360.050)
§ 75.050 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   (1)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as
provided herein.
      (2)   This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 360.060) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.051 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Prior Code, § 360.070) Penalty, see §
75.999
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 75.065 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this title prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 365.010)
§ 75.066 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this title imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 365.020)
§ 75.067 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.030)
§ 75.068 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle between the hours specified by ordinance of any day, except
Sunday and public holidays, within the districts or upon any of the streets
described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.040)
§ 75.069 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON
CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle between the hours specified by ordinance of any
day, except Sundays and public holidays, within the district or upon any of the
streets described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.050) Penalty, see §
75.999
§ 75.070 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this title or any ordinance of the city any parking time limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be the duty
of the City Traffic Engineer to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof
and no such regulations shall be effective unless said signs are erected and in
place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 365.060)
§ 75.071 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS.
   In cases where an equally direct and convenient alternate route is provided,
an ordinance may describe, and signs may be erected giving notice thereof, that
no persons shall operate any commercial vehicle upon streets or parts of
streets so described except those commercial vehicles making deliveries
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 365.070)
§ 75.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
75.030 is guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $300. Every day upon which such violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 355.100)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
75.031 shall be subject to a fine in an amount not less than $25 nor more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 355.110)
   (D)   (1)   For the first violation of §
75.032, the police officer shall issue a written warning and said warning shall
be logged by the police officer in a record maintained by the police officer.
      (2)   Second violation shall result in the issuance of a parking in
prohibited place violation under §
70.02.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations shall be issued on a uniform
citation filed in the city’s Municipal Division of the Circuit Court of the
county.
(Ord. 8, passed 3-1-2004)
CHAPTER 76: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Other equipment of motor vehicles
   
76.02   Loads which might become dislodged to be secured
   
76.03   Seat belts
   
76.04   Child restraint system
   
76.05   Vision-reducing material applied to windshield or windows without
permit prohibited; rules; procedure
   
76.06   Studded tires
   
76.07   Restriction on use of metal-tired vehicles
   
76.08   Passengers in trucks
Light Regulations
   
76.20   When lights required
   
76.21   Headlamp on motor vehicles
   
76.22   Multiple-beam headlamps; arrangement
   
76.23   Dimming of lights
   
76.24   Tail lamps; reflectors
   
76.25   Auxiliary lamps; number; location
   
76.26   Cowl, fender, running board, and backup lamps
   
76.27   Spotlamps
   
76.28   Colors of various lamps; restriction of red lights
   
76.29   Limitations on lamps other than headlamps; flashing signals prohibited
except on specific vehicles
   
76.30   Limitation on total of lamps lighted at one time
   
76.31   Other vehicles; how lighted
   
76.32   Animal-driven vehicles; lighting requirements
 
   
76.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01 OTHER EQUIPMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Signaling devices. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a horn,
directed forward, or whistle in good working order, capable of emitting a sound
adequate in quantity and volume to give warning of the approach of such vehicle
to other users of the highway and to pedestrians. Such signaling device shall
be used for warning purposes only and shall not be used for making any
unnecessary noise, and no other sound-producing signaling device shall be used
at any time.
   (B)   Muffler cutouts. Muffler cutouts shall not be used and no vehicle
shall be driven in such manner or condition that excessive and unnecessary
noises shall be made by its machinery, motor, signaling device, or other parts,
or by any improperly loaded cargo. The motors of all motor vehicles shall be
fitted with properly attached mufflers of such capacity or construction as to
quiet the maximum possible exhaust noise as completely as is done in modern gas
engine passenger motor vehicles. Any cutout or opening in the exhaust pipe
between the motor and the muffler on any motor vehicle shall be completely
closed and disconnected from its operating lever and shall be so arranged that
it cannot automatically open, or be opened or operated, while such vehicle is
in motion.
   (C)   Brakes. All motor vehicles, except motorcycles, shall be provided at
all times with two sets of adequate brakes kept in good working order, and
motorcycles shall be provided with one set of adequate brakes kept in good
working order.
   (D)   Mirrors. All motor vehicles which are so constructed or loaded that
the operator cannot see the road behind such vehicle by looking back or around
the side of such vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so adjusted as to
reveal the road behind and be visible from the operator’s seat.
   (E)   Projections on vehicles. All vehicles carrying poles or other objects,
which project more than five feet from the rear of such vehicle, shall, during
the period when lights are required by this chapter, carry a red light at or
near the rear end of the pole or other object so projecting. At other times a
red flag or cloth, not less than 16 inches squared, shall be displayed at the
end of such projection.
   (F)   Towlines. When one vehicle is towing another, the connecting device
shall not exceed 15 feet. During the time that lights are required by RSMo. §§
307.020 to 307.120, the required lights shall be displayed by both vehicles.
Every towed vehicle shall be coupled to the towing vehicle by means of a safety
chain, cable, or equivalent device in addition to the primary coupling device,
except that such secondary coupling device shall not be necessary if the
connecting device is connected to the towing vehicle by a center-locking ball
located over or nearly over the rear axle and not supported by the rear bumper
of the towing vehicle. Such secondary safety connecting devices shall be of
sufficient strength to control the towed vehicle in the event of failure of the
primary coupling device. The provisions of this division (F) shall not apply to
wreckers towing vehicles or to vehicles secured to the towing vehicle by a
fifth-wheel type connection. The provisions of this division (F) shall also not
apply to farm implements or to any vehicle which is not required to be
registered.
   (G)   Commercial motor vehicles and trailers. When being operated on any
highway, street, or road of this city, commercial motor vehicles and trailers
shall be equipped with adequate and proper brakes, lighting equipment,
signaling devices, steering mechanisms, horns, mirrors, windshield wipers,
tires, wheels, exhaust system, glazing, air pollution control devices, fuel
tank, and any other safety equipment required by the state in such condition so
as to obtain a certificate of inspection and approval, as required by the
provisions of RSMo. § 307.360.
   (H)   Hay transportation. Devices attached to or towed by motor vehicles for
the purpose of transporting hay shall have the protruding parts raised or
retracted when not in use to a position which will not cause injury or damage
to persons or property in the vicinity of such device when on the highways,
streets, or roads of this city.
(Prior Code, § 380.140) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 LOADS WHICH MIGHT BECOME DISLODGED TO BE SECURED.
   All motor vehicles and every trailer and semi-trailer operating upon the
public highways, streets, or roads of this city and carrying goods or material
or farm products which may reasonably be expected to become dislodged and fall
from the vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer as a result of wind pressure or air
pressure and/or by the movement of the vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer shall
have a protective cover or be sufficiently secured so that no portion of such
goods or material can become dislodged and fall from the vehicle, trailer, or
semi-trailer while being transported or carded.
(Prior Code, § 380.150) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term TRUCK means a motor vehicle
designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of property.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term PASSENGER CAR means every motor
vehicle designed for carrying ten persons or less and used for the
transportation of persons; except that the term PASSENGER CAR shall not include
motorcycles, motorized bicycles, motortricycles, and trucks with a licensed
gross weight of 12,000 pounds or more.
   (C)   Each driver, except persons employed by the United States Postal
Service while performing duties for that federal agency which requires the
operator to service postal boxes from their vehicles, or which require frequent
entry into and exit from their vehicles, and front seat passengers of a
passenger car manufactured after January 1, 1968, operated on a street or
highway in the city, and persons less than 18 years of age operating or riding
in a truck, as defined in division (A) above, on a street or highway of this
city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt that meets federal
National Highway, Transportation, and Safety Act requirements; except that a
child less than four years of age shall be protected as required in §
76.04. No person shall be stopped, inspected, or detained solely to determine
compliance with this division (C). The provisions of this section shall not be
applicable to persons who have a medical reason for failing to have a seat belt
fastened about their body, nor shall the provisions of this section be
applicable to persons while operating or riding a motor vehicle being used in
agricultural work-related activities. Non-compliance with this division (C)
shall not constitute probable cause for violation of any other provision of
law. Each person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section is
guilty of an infraction for which a fine not to exceed $10 may be imposed. All
other provisions of law and court rules to the contrary notwithstanding, no
court costs shall be imposed on any person due to a violation of this section.
   (D)   Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child four years of age
or more, but less than 16 years of age, shall secure the child in a properly
adjusted and fastened safety belt.
   (E)   If there are more persons than there are seat belts in the enclosed
area of a motor vehicle, then the driver and passengers are not in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 380.160) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every person transporting a child under the age of four years shall be
responsible, when transporting such child in a motor vehicle operated by that
person on the streets or highways of this city, for providing for the
protection of such child. Such child shall be protected by a child passenger
restraint system approved by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any public carrier for hire.
(Prior Code, § 380.170) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 VISION-REDUCING MATERIAL APPLIED TO WINDSHIELD OR WINDOWS WITHOUT
PERMIT PROHIBITED; RULES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person may operate a motor vehicle with front sidewing vents or
windows located immediately to the left and right of the driver that have a
sun-screening device, in conjunction with safety glazing material, that has a
light transmission of 35% or more plus or minus 3% and a luminous reflectance
of 35% or less plus or minus 3%. Except as provided in division (C) below, any
sun-screening device applied to front sidewing vents or windows located
immediately to the left and right of the driver in excess of the requirements
of this section shall be prohibited without a permit pursuant to a physician’s
prescription as described below. A permit to operate a motor vehicle with front
sidewing vents or windows located immediately to the left and right of the
driver that have a sun-screening device, in conjunction with safety glazing
material, which permits less light transmission and luminous reflectance than
allowed under the requirements of this division (A), may be issued by the
Department of Public Safety to a person having a serious medical condition
which requires the use of a sun-screening device if the permittee’s physician
prescribes its use. The Director of the Department of Public Safety shall
promulgate rules and regulations for the issuance of the permit. The permit
shall allow operation of the vehicle by any titleholder or relative within the
second degree of consanguinity or affinity, which shall mean a spouse, each
grandparent, parent, brother, sister, niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, child, and
grandchild of a person, who resides in the household. Except as provided in
division (B) below, all sun-screening devices applied to the windshield of a
motor vehicle are prohibited.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit labels, stickers, decalcomania, or
informational signs on motor vehicles or the application of tinted or solar-
screening material to recreational vehicles, as defined in RSMo. § 700.010;
provided that such material does not interfere with the driver’s normal view of
the road. This section shall not prohibit factory-installed tinted glass, the
equivalent replacement thereof, or tinting material applied to the upper
portion of the motor vehicle’s windshield which is normally tinted by the
manufacturer of motor vehicle safety glass.
   (C)   Any vehicle licensed with a historical license plate shall be exempt
from the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 380.180) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 STUDDED TIRES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any road or highway of this
city between April 1 and November 1 while the motor vehicle is equipped with
tires containing metal or carbide studs.
(Prior Code, § 380.200) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 RESTRICTION ON USE OF METAL-TIRED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No metal-tired vehicle shall be operated over any of the improved
highways of this city, except over highways constructed of gravel or claybound
gravel, if such vehicle has, on the periphery of any of the road wheels, any
lug, flange, cleat, ridge, bolt, or any projection of metal or wood which
projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire, unless the
highway is protected by putting down solid planks or other suitable material or
by attachments to the wheels so as to prevent such vehicles from damaging the
highway, except that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction
engines equipped with what is known as caterpillar treads, when such
caterpillar does not contain any projection of any kind likely to injure the
surface of the road. Tractors, traction engines, and similar vehicles may be
operated which have upon their road wheels “V” shaped, diagonal, or other
cleats arranged in such manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface if the gross weight on the wheels per inch of width of such cleats or
road surface, when measured in the direction of the axle of the vehicle, does
not exceed 800 pounds.
   (B)   No tractor, tractor engine, or other metal-tired vehicle weighing more
than four tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive
onto, upon, or over the edge of any improved highway without protecting such
edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable material to prevent such
vehicle from breaking off the edges of the pavement.
   (C)   Any person violating this section, whether operating pursuant to a
permit or not, or who shall willfully or negligently damage a highway, shall be
liable for the amount of such damage caused to any highway, bridge, culvert, or
sewer, and any vehicle causing such damage shall be subject to a lien for the
full amount of such damage, which lien shall not be superior to any duly
recorded or filed chattel mortgage or other lien previously attached to such
vehicle; the amount of such damage may be recovered in any action in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 380.210) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.08 PASSENGERS IN TRUCKS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term TRUCK means a motor vehicle
designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of property.
   (B)   No person shall operate any truck, as defined in division (A) above,
with a licensed gross weight of less than 12,000 pounds on any highway which is
part of the state or federal highway system or when such truck is operated
within the corporate limits of the city when any person under 18 years of age
is riding in the unenclosed bed of such truck. No person under 18 years of age
shall ride in the unenclosed bed of such truck when the truck is in operation.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of the employee’s
duties where it is necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (2)   Any person while engaged in agricultural activities where it is
necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (3)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck while such truck
is being operated in a parade, caravan, or exhibition which is authorized by
law;
      (4)   Any person, riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck
has installed a means of preventing such person from being discharged or such
person is secured to the truck in a manner which will prevent the person from
being thrown, falling, or jumping from the truck;
      (5)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
being operated solely for the purpose of participating in a special event and
it is necessary that the person ride in such unenclosed bed due to a lack of
available seating. SPECIAL EVENT, for the purposes of this section, is a
specific social activity of a definable duration which is participated in by
the person riding in the unenclosed bed;
      (6)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
being operated solely for the purposes of providing assistance to, or ensuring
the safety of, other persons engaged in a recreational activity; or
      (7)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
the only legally titled, licensed, and insured vehicle owned by the family of
the person riding in the unenclosed bed and there is insufficient room in the
passenger cab of the truck to accommodate all passengers in the truck. For the
purposes of this section, the term FAMILY shall mean any persons related within
the first degree of consanguinity.
(Prior Code, § 380.220) Penalty, see §
76.99
LIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 76.20 WHEN LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED means at any time from one-half hour
after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any other time when there
is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on
the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive, move, park, or be in custody of any
vehicle or combination of vehicles on any street or highway during the times
when lighted lamps are required unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles
displays lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter in this
subchapter required.
      (2)   No person shall use on any vehicle any approved electric lamp or
similar device unless the light source of such lamp or device complies with the
conditions of approval as to focus and rated candlepower.
(Prior Code, § 380.010) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.21 HEADLAMP ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as in this subchapter provided, every motor vehicle other than
a motor-drawn vehicle and other than a motorcycle shall be equipped with at
least two approved headlamps mounted at the same level with at least one on
each side of the front of the vehicle.
   (B)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more than
two approved headlamps. Every motorcycle equipped with a sidecar or other
attachment shall be equipped with a lamp on the outside limit of such
attachment capable of displaying a white light to the front.
(Prior Code, § 380.020) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.22 MULTIPLE-BEAM HEADLAMPS; ARRANGEMENT.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combination thereof on motor vehicles other
than motorcycles or motor-driven cycles shall be so arranged that the driver
may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
(Prior Code, § 380.030) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.23 DIMMING OF LIGHTS.
   Every person driving a motor vehicle equipped with multiple-beam road
lighting equipment, during the times when lighted lamps are required, shall use
a distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe distance in
advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within 500
feet, or is within 300 feet to the rear of another vehicle traveling in the
same direction, the driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam
so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the other
driver, and in no case shall the high-intensity portion which is projected to
the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle be aimed
higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, and in no case higher than a level of 42 inches above the level upon
which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
(Prior Code, § 380.040) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.24 TAIL LAMPS; REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and every motor-drawn vehicle shall be equipped
with at least two rear lamps, not less than 15 inches or more than 72 inches
above the ground upon which the vehicle stands, which, when lighted, will
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
Either such rear lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as
to illuminate with a white light the rear registration marker and render it
clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. When the rear
registration marker is illuminated by an electric lamp other than the required
rear lamps, all such lamps shall be turned on or off only by the same control
switch at all times.
   (B)   Every motorcycle registered in this state, when operated on a highway,
shall also carry at the rear, either as part of the rear lamp or separately, at
least one approved red reflector which shall be of such size and
characteristics and so maintained as to be visible during the times when
lighted lamps are required from all distances within 300 feet to 50 feet from
such vehicle when directly in front of a motor vehicle displaying lawful
undimmed headlamps.
   (C)   (1)   Every new passenger car, new commercial motor vehicle, motor-
drawn vehicle, and omnibus with a capacity of more than six passengers
registered in this state after January 1, 1966, when operated on a highway
shall also carry at the rear at least two approved red reflectors, at least one
at each side, so designed, mounted on the vehicle and maintained as to be
visible during the times when lighted lamps are required from all distances
within 500 to 50 feet from such vehicle when directly in front of a motor
vehicle displaying lawful undimmed headlamps.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall meet the requirements of this subchapter
and shall be mounted upon the vehicle at a height not to exceed 60 inches nor
less than 15 inches above the surface upon which the vehicle stands.
(Prior Code, § 380.050) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.25 AUXILIARY LAMPS; NUMBER; LOCATION.
   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three auxiliary lamps
mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more than 42
inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands.
(Prior Code, § 380.060) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.26 COWL, FENDER, RUNNING BOARD, AND BACKUP LAMPS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit a white or yellow light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or yellow light
without glare.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a backup lamp either separately
or in combination with another lamp; except that no such backup lamp shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(Prior Code, § 380.070) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.27 SPOTLAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spotlamp but every
lighted spotlamp shall be so aimed and used so as not to be dazzling or glaring
to any person.
(Prior Code, § 380.080) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.28 COLORS OF VARIOUS LAMPS; RESTRICTION OF RED LIGHTS.
   Headlamps, when lighted, shall exhibit lights substantially white in color;
auxiliary lamps, cowllamps, and spotlamps, when lighted, shall exhibit lights
substantially white, yellow, or amber in color. No person shall drive or move
any vehicle or equipment, except a school bus when used for school purposes or
an emergency vehicle, upon any street or highway with any lamp or device
thereon displaying a red light visible from directly in front thereof.
(Prior Code, § 380.090) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.29 LIMITATIONS ON LAMPS OTHER THAN HEADLAMPS; FLASHING SIGNALS PROHIBITED
EXCEPT ON SPECIFIC VEHICLES.
   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other than
headlamps, spotlamps, front direction signals, or auxiliary lamps which
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
Alternately flashing warning signals may be used on school buses when used for
school purposes and on motor vehicles when used to transport United States mail
from post offices to boxes of addressees thereof and on emergency vehicles, as
defined in §
70.01, and on buses owned or operated by churches, mosques, synagogues,
temples, or other houses of worship but are prohibited on other motor vehicles,
motorcycles, and motor-drawn vehicles except as a means for indicating a right
or left turn.
(Prior Code, § 380.100) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.30 LIMITATION ON TOTAL OF LAMPS LIGHTED AT ONE TIME.
   At the times when lighted lamps are required, at least two lighted lamps
shall be displayed, one on each side of the front of every motor vehicle except
a motorcycle and except a motor-drawn vehicle except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the provisions governing lights on parked vehicles. Whenever
a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as in this subchapter required is also
equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spotlamp or any other lamp on the front
thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not
more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall be
lighted at any one time when upon a highway.
(Prior Code, § 380.110) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.31 OTHER VEHICLES; HOW LIGHTED.
   All vehicles, including agricultural machinery or implements, road
machinery, road rollers, traction engines, and farm tractors not in this
subchapter specifically required to be equipped with lamps, shall be equipped
during the times when lighted lamps are required with at least one lighted lamp
or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, and such lamps and lanterns shall
exhibit lights to the sides of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 380.120) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.32 ANIMAL-DRIVEN VEHICLES; LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who shall place or drive or cause to be placed or driven upon or
along any state highway of this city any animal-driven vehicle whatsoever,
whether in motion or at rest, shall after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise have attached to every such vehicle at the rear thereof a red taillight
or a red reflecting device of not less than three inches in diameter of
effective area or its equivalent in area. When such device shall consist of
reflecting buttons, there shall be no less than seven of such buttons covering
an area equal to a circle with a three inch diameter. The total subtended
effective angle of reflection of every such device shall be no less than 60
degrees and the spread and efficiency of the reflected light shall be
sufficient for the reflected light to be visible to the driver of any motor
vehicle approaching such animal-drawn vehicle from the rear of a distance of
not less than 500 feet. In addition, any person who operates any such animal-
driven vehicle during the hours between sunset and one-half hour before sunrise
shall have at least one light flashing at all times the vehicle is on any
highway of this city. Such light or lights shall be amber in the front and red
in the back and shall be placed on the left side of the vehicle at a height of
no more than six feet from the ground and shall be visible from the front and
the back of the vehicle at a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 380.130) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Operation of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer in violation of
§
76.02 shall be an ordinance violation, and any person convicted thereof shall
be punished as provided by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 380.150)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
76.04 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $25 plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 380.170)
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of this §
76.05 is guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 380.180)
   (E)   Any person who knowingly operates a motor vehicle without the lamps
required in §
76.24 in operable condition is guilty of an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 380.050)
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
76.32 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 380.130)
CHAPTER 77: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles, Motorized Bicycles, and Toy Vehicles
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Brakes required
   
77.03   Lights and reflectors; when required; standards to be met
   
77.04   Rights and duties of bicycle and motorized bicycle riders
   
77.05   Riding to right; required for bicycles and motorized bicycles;
mandatory use of bicycle path by bicycles
   
77.06   Motorized bicycles; license required
   
77.07   Equipment required
   
77.08   Riding on motorcycles; additional passengers; requirements
   
77.09   Riding bicycle on sidewalks; limitations; motorized bicycles prohibited
   
77.10   All-terrain vehicles; prohibited; exceptions; operation under an
exception; prohibited uses
   
77.11   Riding bicycles, sleds, roller skates by attaching to another vehicle
prohibited; pulling a rider behind vehicle prohibited
 
   
77.99   Penalty
BICYCLES, MOTORIZED BICYCLES, AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every vehicle propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any two- or three-wheeled device having an automatic
transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters, which produces less than three gross brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph on
level ground. A MOTORIZED BICYCLE shall be considered a motor vehicle for
purposes of any homeowners’ or renters’ insurance policy.
(Prior Code, § 385.010)
§ 77.02 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle and motorized bicycle shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable its driver to stop the bicycle or motorized bicycle within 25
feet from a speed of ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 385.020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.03 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS; WHEN REQUIRED; STANDARDS TO BE MET.
   Every bicycle and motorized bicycle when in use on a street or highway
during the period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   A front-facing lamp on the front or carried by the rider which shall
emit a white light visible at night under normal atmospheric conditions on a
straight, level, unlighted roadway at 500 feet;
   (B)   A rear-facing red reflector, at least two square inches in reflective
surface area, or a rear-facing red lamp on the rear which shall be visible at
night under normal atmospheric conditions on a straight, level, unlighted
roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under the lower beams of vehicle
headlights at 600 feet;
   (C)   Reflective material and/or lights on any part of the bicyclist’s
pedals, crank arms, shoes, or lower leg visible from the front and the rear at
night under normal atmospheric conditions on a straight, level, unlighted
roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under the lawful lower beams of vehicle
headlights at 200 feet; and
   (D)   (1)   Reflective material and/or lights visible on each side of the
bicycle or bicyclist and visible at night under normal atmospheric conditions
on a straight, level, unlighted roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under
the lawful lower beams of vehicle headlights at 300 feet.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (D) shall not apply to motorized
bicycles which comply with National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration
regulations relating to reflectors on motorized bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 385.030) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF BICYCLE AND MOTORIZED BICYCLE RIDERS.
   Every person riding a bicycle or motorized bicycle upon a street or highway
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, as provided by RSMo. Chapter 304, and
this title, except as to special regulations in this subchapter, and except as
to those provisions of RSMo. Chapter 304, and this title, which by their nature
can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 385.040) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 RIDING TO RIGHT; REQUIRED FOR BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES;
MANDATORY USE OF BICYCLE PATH BY BICYCLES.
   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized bicycle at less than the
posted speed or slower than the flow of traffic upon a street or highway shall
ride as near to the right side of the roadway as safe, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, except when
making a left turn, when avoiding hazardous conditions, when the lane is too
narrow to share with another vehicle, or when on a one-way street. Bicyclists
may ride abreast when not impeding other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 385.050) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06 MOTORIZED BICYCLES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle on any highways, streets,
or roads in this city unless the person has a valid license to operate a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No motorized bicycle may be operated on any public thoroughfare
located within this city which has been designated as part of the federal
interstate highway system.
(Prior Code, § 385.070) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.07 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle on any highways, streets, or
roads in this city unless it is equipped in accordance with the minimum
requirements for construction and equipment of MOPEDS, Regulation VESC-17,
approved July, 1977, as promulgated by the Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 385.080) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.08 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES; ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons or upon another
seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
   (B)   The operator of a motorized bicycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not permit more than one
person to ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized bicycle is
designed to carry more than one person. Any motorized bicycle designed to carry
more than one person must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests for
the use of a passenger.
(Prior Code, § 340.090)
§ 77.09 RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS; LIMITATIONS; MOTORIZED BICYCLES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall ride a motorized bicycle upon a sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 340.100) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.10 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; OPERATION UNDER AN
EXCEPTION; PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle, as defined in §
70.02, upon the streets and highways of this city, except as follows:
      (1)   All-terrain vehicles owned and operated by a governmental entity
for official use; or
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles operated for agricultural purposes or
industrial on-premises purposes between the official sunrise and sunset on the
day of operation.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle, as defined in RSMo.
§ 304.001, within any stream or river in this city, except that off-road
vehicles may be operated within waterways which flow within the boundaries of
land which an off-road vehicle operator owns, or for agricultural purposes
within the boundaries of land which an off-road vehicle operator owns or has
permission to be upon, or for the purpose of fording such stream or river of
this state at such road crossings as are customary or part of the highway
system.
      (2)   All law enforcement officials or peace officers of this state and
its political subdivisions shall enforce the provisions of this division (B)
within the geographic area of their jurisdiction.
   (C)   (1)   A person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a street or highway
pursuant to an exception covered in this section shall have a valid license
issued by a state authorizing such person to operate a motor vehicle, but shall
not be required to have passed an examination for the operation of a
motorcycle, and the vehicle shall be operated at speeds of less than 30 mph.
      (2)   When operated on a street or highway, an all-terrain vehicle shall
have a bicycle safety flag, which extends not less than seven feet above the
ground, attached to the rear of the vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
dayglow in color.
   (D)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle:
      (1)   In any careless way so as to endanger the person or property of
another;
      (2)   While under the influence of alcohol or any controlled substance;
or
      (3)   Without a securely fastened safety helmet on the head of an
individual who operates an all-terrain vehicle or who is being towed or
otherwise propelled by an all-terrain vehicle, unless the individual is at
least 18 years of age.
   (E)   No operator of an all-terrain vehicle shall carry a passenger, except
for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 340.110) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.11 RIDING BICYCLES, SLEDS, ROLLER SKATES BY ATTACHING TO ANOTHER VEHICLE
PROHIBITED; PULLING A RIDER BEHIND VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any
vehicle upon a roadway, nor shall the driver of a vehicle knowingly pull a
rider behind a vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 340.120) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person 16 years of age or older who violates any provision of §§
77.02 through
77.07 is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $25. If any person under
16 years of age violates any provision of §§
77.02 through
77.07 in the presence of a peace officer possessing the duty and power of
arrest for violation of the general criminal laws of the state or for violation
of ordinances of counties or municipalities of the state, said officer may
impound the bicycle or motorized bicycle involved for a period not to exceed
five days upon issuance of a receipt to the child riding it or to its owner.
   (C)   A violation of §
77.10 shall be an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 340.110) (Ord. 39, passed 9-1-2008)
CHAPTER 78: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop signs/intersections
      
III.   Yield signs/intersections
      
IV.   Truck parking
      
V.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with the provisions of
73.045 through
73.049 and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of the speeds listed
below on the streets as designated.
Street Speed Limit
Street                                                              Speed Limit
All streets bordering the city park (Exception: Mount Vernon        10 mph
Street)
All streets west of the MKT tracks (Katy Trail)                     30 mph
Center Street                                                       20 mph
Elsie Street from the intersection of Fourth Street to the          20 mph
intersection of Seventh Street
Fifth Street from Harris Street to the intersection of Julia Street 20 mph
Fifth Street from the intersection of School Street to the          20 mph
intersection of Roe Street
Fourth Street from the intersection of School Street to the         20 mph
intersection of Missouri State Highway 135 (College Street)
Hall Street to the dead end of the street                           20 mph
Harris Street from the intersection of Main Street to the           20 mph
intersection of Seventh Street
Harris Street from the intersection of Seventh Street to the        30 mph
junction of Roe Street
Julia Street from the intersection of Fourth Street to the          20 mph
intersection of Fifth Street
Main Street from Harris Street to the intersection of School Street 20 mph
Missouri State Highway HH (West Harris Street) from the             30 mph
intersection of Roe Street to the west city limits
Missouri State Highway M (West Second Street) from the intersection 30 mph
of West Roe Street to the north city limits
Missouri State Highway 135 (College Street) from the south city     30 mph
limits to the intersection of Hall Street
Missouri State Highway 135 (College Street) to the junction of Main 20 mph
Street
Missouri State Highway 135 (Main Street):
(A) Traveling northeast on Main between School Street and the north 30 mph
city limits
(B) From the intersection of School Street to the north city limits 30 mph
Mount Vernon Street to the entrance of the city park                20 mph
Roe Street:
(A) From the intersection of Fifth Street to the east city limits   30 mph
(B) Between the intersection of Fifth Street and Roe Street and the 30 mph
west city limit line                                                20 mph
(C) From the intersection of West Second Street to the intersection
of Fifth Street
School zone to include all of School Street, starting at the
intersection of Third Street, Highway 135, and School Street and
running to the intersection with Fourth Street, Fifth Street, and
School Street;
Also, Fifth Street for distance of 350 feet south of its            15 mph
intersection with Fourth Street, Fifth Street, and School Street;
Also, Fourth Street for a distance of approximately 260 feet
southwest from the intersection of Fourth Street, Fifth Street, and
School Street.
School zone on Harris Street between Fourth Street and Fifth Street 15 mph
Seventh Street                                                      20 mph
Short Street from west back to the dead end of Short Street         20 mph
Sixth Street from the intersection of Harris Street to the          20 mph
intersection of Teller Street
Teller Street from the intersection of Fourth Street to the         20 mph
intersection of Sixth Street
Third Street from the intersection of School Street to the          20 mph
intersection of Harris Street
West Bock from College Street to the dead end of the street         20 mph
West Third Street from the intersection of West Harris Street to    20 mph
the entrance of city cemetery
 
(Prior Code, Schedule I) (Ord. 68, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS/INTERSECTIONS.
   As authorized by and in accordance with
75.022 through
75.025, when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall
stop at every intersection or other location, designated herein, before
proceeding.
Street Direction Intersection
Street             Direction                 Intersection
Barnes Street      Northbound and southbound At the intersection of Prospect
                                             Avenue
Fifth Street       Northbound                At the intersection of Harris
                                             Street
Fifth Street       Westbound                 At the intersection of Fourth
                                             Street and School Street
Fifth Street       Westbound                 At the intersection of School
                                             Street
Fourth Street      Eastbound                 At the intersection of School
                                             Street
Fourth Street      Northbound and southbound At the intersection of Harris
                                             Street
Fourth Street      Northbound and southbound At the intersection of Roe Street
Fourth Street      Southbound                At the intersection of Fifth
                                             Street and School Street
Fourth Street      Westbound                 At the intersection of Missouri
                                             State Highway 135 (College Street)
Hall Street        Eastbound                 At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
Harris Street      Eastbound and westbound   At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
                                             At Missouri State Highway 135
Main Street        Northbound                (College Avenue and Main Street
                                             Junction)
Main Street        Northbound and southbound At the intersection of Roe Street
Mount Vernon       Eastbound                 At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
Progress Avenue    Eastbound                 At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
Prospect Avenue                             At the intersection with Barnes
                                             Street (4-way stop sign)
Prospect Avenue    Eastbound                 At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
Roe Street                                  At College Street (Missouri State
                                             Highway 135) (4- way stop sign)
School Street      Eastbound                 At the intersection of Fourth
                                             Street and Fifth Street
School Street      Westbound                 At the intersection of Missouri
                                             State Highway 135 (Main Street)
Third Street       Northbound                At Roe Street
Third Street       Southbound                At Roe Street
West Bock          Eastbound                 At Missouri State Highway 135
                                             (College Street)
West Second Street Northbound                At the intersection of State
                                             Highway HH
West Second Street Northbound                At the intersection of State
                                             Highway M
West Third Street  Southbound                At the intersection of State
                                             Highway HH
 
(Prior Code, Schedule II, Table II-A) (Ord. 5, passed 12-2-2003; Ord. 34,
passed 4-7-2008; Ord. 68, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 86, passed 8-3-2015; Ord. 118,
passed 7-8-2024) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD SIGNS/INTERSECTIONS.
   As authorized by and in accordance with
75.022 through
75.025, when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles shall
stop at every intersection or other location, designated herein, before
proceeding.
Street Direction Intersection
Street                     Direction                 Intersection
Barnes Street              Northbound                At the intersection of
                                                     Prospect Avenue
Barnes Street              Northbound and southbound At the intersection of
                                                     Prospect Avenue
Barnes Street              Northeasterly bound       At the intersection of
                                                     Progress Avenue
Barnes Street              Southbound                At West Bock
Center Street              Northbound                At the intersection of
                                                     Hall Street
Center Street              Northeasterly bound       At the intersection of
                                                     Hall Street
Center Street              Southbound                At the intersection of
                                                     Mount Vernon Street
Center Street              Southwesterly bound       At the intersection of
                                                     Mount Vernon Street
Fifth Street               Northbound and southbound At Elsie Street
Fifth Street               Northbound and southbound At Teller Street
Fifth Street               Southbound                At Roe Street
Fifth Street               Westbound                 At School Street
Hall Street                Westerly bound            At the intersection of
                                                     West Second Street
Julia Street               Westbound                 At Fourth Street
Seventh Street             Northbound                At Roe Street
Seventh Street             Northbound and southbound At Harris Street
Short Street               Southerly bound           At the intersection of
                                                     West Bock Street
Short Street               Southbound                At West Bock
Sixth Street               Northbound                At Harris Street
Street with no name at the Southeasterly bound       At the intersection of
City Park                                            Mount Vernon Street
Third Street               Northbound                At School Street
Third Street               Southbound                At Roe Street
West Hall                  Eastbound                 At the intersection of
                                                     West Second Street
 
(Prior Code, Schedule II, Table II-B) (Ord. 5, passed 12-2-2003; Ord. 68,
passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK PARKING.
   As authorized by and in accordance with
75.020, it shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to stop,
stand, or park said motor vehicle at any one time or instance or location, as
designated herein, except when necessary to avoid a conflict with the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
 
Location                                                 Restriction
Roe Street:                                               
Between Main and First Street                            No parking at any time
Main Street, east side:                                   
Between Roe Street and the alley which runs between Main No parking at any time
and First Street
 
(Prior Code, Schedule III, Table III-A) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE V. NO PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, park, or leave their motor
vehicle except as may be necessary to stop their vehicle at the stop signs at
Route 135 and Highway M at the following locations:
 
On the south side of Route M from the intersection of the south line of Route M
and the west line of Highway 135 to a point 87 feet west of the intersection
On the west side of Highway 135 from the intersection of west line of Highway
135 and the south line of Route M to a point 107 feet south of the intersection
No parking between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. daily on the north side
of Harris Street beginning at the intersection of Harris Street and Highway
135, west 160 feet to the north east corner of Main and Harris Streets
No parking between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. daily on the east side
of Main Street beginning at the intersection of Harris and Main Streets for a
distance of 130 feet north
No parking between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. daily on the south side
of Harris Street beginning at the intersection of Harris Street and Highway
135, west 160 feet
   
(Prior Code, Schedule III, Table III-B) (Ord. 77, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty,
see
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Nuisances affecting health
   
90.02   Animal waste prohibited on public and private property; exception
   
90.03   Debris and weeds as public nuisance
   
90.04   Notice to abate
   
90.05   Regulating the storage, handling, and dispensing of explosives
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   (A)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting health:
      (1)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public or
offered to the public at no charge;
      (2)   All diseased animals running at large;
      (3)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
      (4)   Carcasses of dead animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours
after death;
      (5)   Accumulations, wheresoever they may occur, of manure, rubbish,
garbage, refuse, and human and industrial, noxious, or offensive waste, except
the normal storage on a farm of manure for agricultural purposes;
      (6)   Privy vaults or garbage cans which are not fly-tight; that is,
privy vaults or garbage cans which do not prevent the entry of flies, insects,
and rodents;
      (7)   The pollution of any well, cistern, spring, underground water,
stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage or industrial wastes or other
substances harmful to human beings;
      (8)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders in
unreasonable quantities, or the presence of any gas, vapor, fume, smoke, dust,
or any other toxic substance on, in, or emitted from the equipment of any
premises in quantities sufficient to be toxic, harmful, or injurious to the
health of any employee or to any premises, occupant, or to any other person;
      (9)   Common drinking cups, roller towels, combs, brushes, or eating
utensils in public or semi-public places where not properly sanitized after
use;
      (10)   Any vehicle used for septic tank cleaning which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter;
      (11)   Any vehicle used for garbage or rubbish disposal which is not
equipped with a watertight metal body and provided with a tight metal cover or
covers and so constructed as to prevent any of the contents from leaking,
spilling, falling, or blowing out of such vehicle at any time, except while
being loaded or not completely secured and covered so as to prevent offensive
odors from escaping therefrom or exposing any part of the contents at any time;
      (12)   Any and all infestations of flies, fleas, roaches, lice, ticks,
rats, mice, fly maggots, mosquito larvae, and hookworm larvae;
      (13)   The keeping of animals and fowls in any area within the city not
zoned for agricultural uses except pet cats and dogs, animals in public or
licensed zoos, and farm animals in laboratories;
      (14)   Unlicensed dumps and licensed dumps not operated or maintained in
compliance with the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state;
      (15)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into a
stormwater system any waste materials, liquids, vapor, fat, gasoline, benzene,
naphtha, oil or petroleum product, mud, straw, lawn clippings, tree limbs or
branches, metal or plastic objects, rags, garbage, or any other substance which
is capable of causing an obstruction to the flow of the storm system or
interfere with the proper operation of the system or which will pollute the
natural creeks or waterways;
      (16)   All other acts, practices, conduct, business, occupation callings,
trades, uses of property, and all other things detrimental or certain to be
detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the city; and
      (17)   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE is further
defined from the nuisances in this division (A) as any person doing an unlawful
act, or omitted to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or
thing to be or exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the health or safety of others; or
         (b)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
rends dangerous for passage any public street, highway, or sidewalk.
   (B)   Unlawful to cause or maintain within city or one-half mile thereof. It
is unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant or any agent, servant,
representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant having
control of any occupied lot or land or any part thereof in the city or within
one-half mile of the corporate limits of the city to cause, permit, or maintain
a nuisance on any such lot or land. Additionally, it is unlawful for any person
or his or her agent, servant, representative, or employee to cause or maintain
a nuisance on the land or property of another with or without permission. Each
day that a nuisance shall be maintained is a separate offense.
   (C)   Authority to abate emergency cases. In cases where it reasonably
appears that there is an immediate danger to the health, safety, or welfare of
the public due to the existence of a nuisance, the Mayor or his or her
designate shall have the authority to order the Chief of Police or health
officer or other city official to immediately abate the nuisance in an
appropriate manner.
   (D)   Abatement; procedure generally. Whenever the Board of Aldermen
receives notification that a nuisance may exist, it shall proceed as follows,
except as may be otherwise provided herein.
      (1)   It shall investigate the same. The Board may order any person who
has caused or is maintaining the nuisance to appear before the Board at such
time and place as the Board may direct to show cause, if any, why that person
should not abate the nuisance. Every person required to appear before the Board
shall have at least seven days’ notice thereof.
      (2)   Such notice shall be signed by the Health Officer or Chief of
Police and shall be served upon that person by delivering a copy thereof to the
person, or by leaving a copy at his or her residence with some member of the
family or household over 15 years of age, or upon any corporation by delivering
the copy thereof to the president or to any other officer at any business
office of the corporation within the city. If the notice cannot be given for
the reason that the person named in the notice or his or her agent cannot be
found in the city, of which fact the return upon such notice of the officer
serving the same shall be conclusive evidence, such notice shall be published
in a daily newspaper for three consecutive days, if a daily, or once, if a
weekly paper, giving at least seven days’ notice from the final publication
date of the time fixed for the parties to appear before the Board.
      (3)   If, after hearing all the evidence, the Board of Aldermen may
determine that a nuisance exists, it may direct the Health Officer or Chief of
Police or other city official to order the person to abate the nuisance within
seven days or within such other time as the Board may deem reasonable. Such
order shall be served in the manner provided in this section for service of the
order to show cause. The order may further provide that the appropriate city
official be directed to abate the nuisance if the order is not obeyed within
the time period set by the Board, and that a special tax bill be issued for the
costs of abating the nuisance.
      (4)   If the order has not been obeyed within the time period set by the
Board, the appropriate city official shall proceed to abate the nuisance in the
manner provided by the order of the Board, and the cost of same, if ordered by
the Board, may be assessed as a special tax against the property so improved or
upon which such work was done; and, if so ordered, the City Clerk shall cause a
special tax bill therefor against the owner thereof when known and, if not
known, then against the unknown persons, and the certified bills of such
assessment shall describe therein the property upon which the work was done.
      (5)   The bills for the above work shall be recorded and shall be
collected and paid as provided for the collection of other special tax bills
for the repairing of sidewalks or grading or paving of streets and shall be a
lien on the property.
      (6)   The cost of abating nuisances on private property shall be levied
and assessed on each lot in proportion to the amount of work done and material
used in abating the nuisance located on each such lot.
(Prior Code, § 215.010) (Ord. 81, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ANIMAL WASTE PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   Any person in physical possession and control of any animal shall remove
excreta or other solid waste deposited by the animal in any public or private
area not designated to receive such wastes including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, parking lots, public parks, or recreation areas and private
property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying any blind person.
(Prior Code, § 215.020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 DEBRIS AND WEEDS AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Debris defined. Any condition on any lot or land that has the presence
of debris of any kind which may endanger the public safety or any material
which is unhealthy or unsafe is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
subject to abatement. Debris shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
weed cuttings, cut and fallen trees and shrubs, overgrown vegetation, noxious
weeds which are seven inches or more in height, rubbish and trash, lumber not
piled or stacked 12 inches off the ground, rocks or bricks, tin, steel, parts
of derelict cars or trucks, broken furniture, and/or any flammable material.
   (B)   Notice. Enforcement of this section shall be the responsibility of the
Chief of Police. After inspection of property by the Chief of Police, if the
Chief of Police believes the property to be in violation, he or she shall
provide notice to the owner of the property by personal service or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall state:
      (1)   Within seven days of receipt of the notice (which shall be the date
of delivery as to personal service, the date of receipt of certified mail,
which is not refused or five days after the date of mailing as to certified
mail, return receipt requested which was refused by the owner), the property
owner must begin and continue without unnecessary delay the abatement or
removal of the nuisance condition;
      (2)   The nature of the nuisance;
      (3)   The notice shall indicate that a hearing may be requested before
the Chief of Police or Mayor depending upon availability. It is the
responsibility of the owner to schedule the hearing and the hearing must be
conducted within seven days of receipt of the notice unless none of the two
specified hearing officers are available and under such circumstance, the
hearing shall be scheduled with the hearing officer with the quickest
availability to conduct the hearing; and
      (4)   The notice shall indicate that in the event the owner does not
request a hearing as provided for herein or begin abatement of the nuisance
within seven days of receipt of the notice and continue the abatement without
unnecessary delay that the Chief of Police or other designated officer may
cause a condition which constitutes the nuisance to be removed and the cost of
such removal shall be certified to the City Clerk who shall cause the certified
costs to be included in a special tax bill or added to the annual real estate
tax bill, at the collecting official’s option, for the property and the
certified costs shall be collected by the City Collector or other official
collecting taxes in the same manner and procedure for collecting real estate
taxes. If the certified costs are not paid, the tax bill shall be considered
delinquent and the collection of the delinquent bill shall be governed by the
laws governing delinquent and back taxes. The tax bill from the date of its
issuance shall be deemed a personal debt against the owner and shall also be a
lien on the property until paid.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance by city. If no hearing is requested by the
property owner as provided in this section or hearing is conducted and the
hearing officer finds that a public nuisance under this section does exist and
should be abated or the owner fails to begin within seven days of receipt of
notice and continue without unnecessary delay to abate or remove the nuisance,
the Chief of Police shall cause the condition which constitutes the nuisance to
be removed. If the Chief of Police causes such condition to be removed or
abated, the costs of such removal shall be certified to the City Clerk who
shall cause the certified costs to be included in a special tax bill or added
to the annual real estate tax bill for the property at the collecting
official’s option. The certified costs shall be collected by the City Collector
or other official collecting taxes in the same manner and procedure for
collecting real estate taxes. If the certified costs are not paid, the tax bill
shall be considered delinquent and the collection of delinquent bill shall be
governed by the laws governing delinquent and back taxes. The tax bill from the
date of issuance shall be deemed a personal debt against the owner and shall
also be a lien on the property until paid.
   (D)   Violation is an offense. An owner who fails to begin removal of a
nuisance within seven days of notice or fails to continue the removal without
unnecessary delay as provided for in this section shall be guilty of an offense
and may be charged in municipal court with the offense of failure to abate a
nuisance.
   (E)   Dead trees. Dead trees and limbs of trees so located that the falling
thereof would endanger the safety of the person using any public sidewalks or
streets in said city or endanger the safety of any pedestrian or occupant of
any motor vehicle traveling upon any public street.
   (F)   Overhanging branches. Tree limbs and branches which overhang any
public sidewalk or public street of such height above the sidewalk or street as
shall impede and interfere with the use of said street by a pedestrian or the
operator of any motor vehicle, or shall endanger the safety of any person using
any public sidewalk, or endanger the safety of any pedestrian or occupant of
any motor vehicle traveling upon any public street.
(Prior Code, § 215.120) (Ord. 81, passed 10-3-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Manner of giving. When a nuisance is found to exist within the city,
the Chief of Police or any other duly designated city official shall give ten
days’ written notice to the owner of the property upon which such nuisance
exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing, in writing, to
the Mayor or any other designated city official within ten days from the date
of notice;
      (2)   The location of and a general description of the nuisance;
      (3)   A general description of procedures to be taken to abate the
nuisance;
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for a hearing is made from the person receiving said nuisance within
the prescribed time, the city may abate such nuisance and assess the cost
thereof against such person; and
      (5)   A statement as to whether this is a first or a repeated notice of
the same or similar nuisance violation.
   (C)   Service of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance may be personally
served by posting such notice on the property containing the nuisance in a
weathertight container firmly attached to the property of the nuisance, or by
certified mail to the owner or occupant thereof or any other legal process as
may be served pursuant to law.
   (D)   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by the person to whom a notice to
abate nuisance has been directed, the City Council shall give the owner or
occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists, or person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, a hearing concerning said violation(s). The decision
of the City Council shall be final.
   (E)   Finding. Upon the City Council finding a nuisance exists, the owner,
occupant, or person causing or maintaining the nuisance shall have ten days or
such other reasonable time as set by the City Council to abate said nuisance.
   (F)   Form of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance shall be in
substantially in the following form.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/34abecb20d60bc49ec05ab2924f665d23862a77d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1712.jpg]
(Ord. 81, passed 10-3-2014)
§ 90.05 REGULATING THE STORAGE, HANDLING, AND DISPENSING OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store or keep in any storeroom, wareroom,
building, or any premises within the corporate limits any of the following
explosives in any quantity:
      (1)   Liquid nitroglycerin;
      (2)   High explosives containing over 60% of nitroglycerin (except
gelatin dynamite);
      (3)   High explosives having any unsatisfactory absorbent or one that
permits leakage of nitroglycerin under any conditions liable to exist during
transportation or storage;
      (4)   Nitrocellulose in a dry condition in quantity of greater than ten
pounds in one exterior package;
      (5)   Fulminate of mercury in bulk in a dry condition and fulminate of
all other metals in any condition except as a component of manufactured
articles; or
      (6)   Explosives containing an ammonium salt and a chlorate.
   (B)   One portable magazine kept securely locked and conspicuously marked
“Magazine - Explosives” containing not more than 50 pounds of permissible
explosives may be allowed in a building not occupied as a dwelling or place of
public assembly if placed on wheels and located not more than ten feet from, on
the same floor with, and directly opposite to the entrance on the floor nearest
the street level, and one similar portable magazine containing not more than
5,000 blasting caps may be allowed if placed on wheels and located on the floor
nearest the street level. Blasting caps or detonators of any kind shall not be
kept in the same magazine with other explosives.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall sell explosives shall
obtain a permit annually from the Chief of the Fire Department (or other
designated official) who shall inspect the place where same is kept and, if
found in compliance with the terms of this section, may issue said permit.
(Prior Code, § 500.060) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person convicted of an offense under this chapter, except §
90.05, may be punished by a fine or imprisonment, or both fine and
imprisonment, such fine not exceed the general penalty amounts prescribed in §
10.99. Each day that a violation of this chapter except §
90.05 continues shall be deemed a separate offence and is subject to additional
penalties as determined by the court.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty for an original nuisance violation, the
penalty for a person repeatedly convicted for the same or similar nuisance
violation within a consecutive 12-month period may be increased by an amount of
at least 10% over the penalty of the most recent conviction for the same or
similar nuisance violation.
(Ord. 81, passed 10-3-2014)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Vaccination and tag
   
91.03   Prerequisite for registration and licensing
   
91.04   Licensing regulations
   
91.05   Dog kennels
   
91.06   Confinement of female dogs in heat
   
91.07   Rabies
   
91.08   Investigation and interference with officers
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Running at large prohibited; impoundment
   
91.11   Dangerous or destructive animals
   
91.12   Certain dog breeds prohibited
   
91.13   Vicious dogs prohibited; exceptions; impoundment
   
91.14   Impoundment
   
91.15   Duty to impound
   
91.16   Unlawful removal of impounded animals
   
91.17   Barking dogs
Livestock, Fowl, and Wild/Exotic Animals
   
91.30   Certain animals and fowls to be restrained
   
91.31   Sale of impounded animals; duties of street commissioner
   
91.32   Redemption of impounded animals or fowls
   
91.33   Record of sale, disposition of proceeds, and the like
   
91.34   Monies refunded; how and when
   
91.35   Horses
   
91.36   Wild animals, exotic animals, prohibited animals
Cruelty to Animals
   
91.50   Animal neglect or abandonment
   
91.51   Animal abuse
   
91.52   Knowingly releasing an animal
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOGS or CATS. All animals of the canine or feline species, both male and
female.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. When bitten by, or fought with, or has come in close
contact with a dog or other animal shown to be infected with the rabies virus
as determined by standard laboratory testing.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or cat, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or cat, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as
its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any
premises owned or occupied by him or her.
   PITBULL DOG. Any and all of the following dogs:
      (1)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs;
      (2)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs;
      (3)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dogs; and
      (4)   Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of the breeds of the dogs known as Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, or American Staffordshire terrier.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT if it is on property of its owner or is
under the immediate and effective control of a responsible person.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Allowing a dog or cat to be off the private premises of
the owner or keeper, or his or her agent or servant, and not on a leash or
confined to the arms, motor vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance of the owner
or keeper, his or her agent or servant.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of
the function of any part of the body.
   SPAYED FEMALE DOG. A female dog certified by a licensed veterinarian to have
been spayed.
   TRESPASSER. A person upon the premises of the owner or keeper of the dog in
question without license or privilege to be upon said premises.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any of the following dogs:
      (1)   Any dog, whether or not running at large, and whether or not
unrestrained, that without provocation has bitten any person not a trespasser
causing serious physical injury to that person;
      (2)   Any unrestrained dog, whether or not running at large, that without
provocation has attempted to bite any person not a trespasser which would cause
serious physical injury to that person;
      (3)   Any unrestrained dog, whether or not running at large, that without
provocation has placed any person not a trespasser in apprehension of immediate
serious physical injury;
      (4)   Any dog that has killed another dog, cat, or other domestic animal
without provocation;
      (5)   Dogs which, at full maturity, reach a shoulder height of over 40
centimeters or a weight of over 20 kilograms; and
      (6)   Any dogs of the following breeds:
         (a)   American Staffordshire terrier;
         (b)   Bull terrier;
         (c)   Chinesischer kampfhund (Chinese fighting dog);
         (d)   Chow;
         (e)   Dobermann;
         (f)   Pit bull terrier;
         (g)   Rottweiler; and
         (h)   Staffordshire bull terrier.
(Prior Code, § 205.010)
§ 91.02 VACCINATION AND TAG.
   The owner or keeper of any dog in the city is hereby required to have such
animals over the age of six months vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian and to procure a certificate of such vaccination from the
veterinarian and to present such certificate to the City Clerk on or before May
1 of each year; and the City Clerk shall register such certificate, which
registration shall remain in force until the April 30 next following said
registration; and upon registration, the City Clerk shall issue a tag
evidencing the registration and certificate of vaccination, and the owner or
keeper shall securely attach the tag so issued to a collar to be worn
continuously by the animal for which the tag was issued. It shall be unlawful
for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such animal to remain in the city
unless wearing the tag above provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 205.020) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.03 PREREQUISITE FOR REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   No dog shall be registered by the city as required by this subchapter
unless such dog has been immunized against rabies before his or her application
for registration is made.
   (B)   At the time dog tax is paid, the owner or possessor of the dog shall
exhibit a certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian indicating that the dog
has been immunized against rabies prior to the time that the application for
registration is made.
(Prior Code, § 205.021) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.04 LICENSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog within the city limits
unless such dog is licensed as herein provided. Written application for a
license shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state the name, address, and
telephone number (if any) of the owner and the name, breed, color, sex, and
distinguishing marks of the dog. The license fee shall be paid to the City
Clerk at the time and making the application. The City Clerk shall issue a
receipt and a numbered metallic or plastic tag for each dog licensed and shall
maintain for three years one record of such receipts and tags, arranged
numerically by tag numbers. Such records shall be open to public inspection at
all business hours.
   (B)   The yearly license fee for dogs shall be as follows: $3 for a neutered
male dog or spayed female dog and $10 for unspayed female dogs and non-neutered
male dogs.
   (C)   (1)   All dog licenses shall be issued for one year beginning with the
first day of June.
      (2)   The owner may apply for the license during June without penalty for
the delay but when an application which should have been made by June 1 is not
made until after June 30, the appropriate license fee shall be increased by
50%; provided that if the applicant became the owner of the dog after June 1,
the license fee may be prorated to the nearest quarter and the penalty for
delinquency shall be added 30 days after the date when the license should have
been procured.
   (D)   If ownership of a dog is transferred, the new owner may have the
current license transferred to his or her name upon payment of a fee of $1.
   (E)   The owner shall keep on the dog, at all times, when the dog is not
inside a private building, a collar or harness and the tag issued by the City
Clerk shall be affixed to the collar or harness in such a manner that the tag
can be easily seen.
   (F)   No person shall use a tag issued for one dog on another dog for which
the tag was not issued.
   (G)   If a license is destroyed or lost, a duplicate or replacement may be
obtained from the license collector for a fee of $1.
(Prior Code, § 205.022) (Ord. 72, passed 1-7-2013) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.05 DOG KENNELS.
   (A)   DOG KENNELS are hereby defined as being an area where dogs and bitches
are confined for breeding purposes and for sale.
   (B)   All persons operating a dog kennel shall be required to purchase a
merchant’s license for the sum of $16 per year.
   (C)   All dogs and bitches kept in a dog kennel shall be vaccinated against
rabies and shall meet the same animal health standards as now or hereinafter
may be required of dogs to be licensed.
   (D)   All dogs and bitches kept confined in a dog kennel shall not be
required to have individual dog licenses.
(Prior Code, § 205.023) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.06 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   The owner shall confine any female dog in heat within a building in such a
manner that the dog will not be accessible to other dogs except for planned
breeding and will not attract male dogs.
(Prior Code, § 205.025) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.07 RABIES.
   (A)   (1)   Every rabid dog or dog exposed to rabies shall be immediately
confined by the owner who shall promptly notify a police officer or a humane
officer. The owner thereof shall, upon demand by the Director of Public Health,
surrender any such dog for quarantine in the city pound, a humane society
animal shelter, or a licensed veterinary hospital; provided that if the owner
elects to place the dog in a hospital, he or she shall be responsible for all
costs.
      (2)   The dog may be quarantined a maximum of two weeks but shall be
released earlier if certified by a licensed veterinarian to be free of rabies.
No fee shall be charged for quarantine by the public pound.
   (B)   No person shall kill a rabid animal exposed to rabies nor remove such
an animal from the city limits without permission from the Director of Public
Health except when it is necessary to kill such animal to prevent it from
escaping or from biting any other animal or person.
   (C)   The body of any animal dead of rabies or having been exposed to rabies
prior to death shall be surrendered by the owner upon demand of the Director of
Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 205.027) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.08 INVESTIGATION AND INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   Any police officer is authorized to enter any premises where a domestic
animal is kept or harbored to inspect conditions under which the domestic
animal is kept and to require the owner to exhibit a license if said domestic
animal is a dog. No person shall hinder, molest, or interfere with any police
officer or humane officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 205.028) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics, and other facilities operated by licensed veterinarians
for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from all provisions of this
chapter except §§
91.07 and
91.08. The licensing provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to non-
residents of the city unless they keep a dog within the city for more than 30
days.
(Prior Code, § 205.029) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.10 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit the same
to run at large within the city at any time. Any dog found without the tag
provided in §
91.02 and any dog or cat found running at large shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 205.030) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or any person having control
or command of a dog or cat to fail to prevent or keep his or her dog or cat
from doing any damage to a lawn, garden, or other property, or to fail to
prevent or keep his or her dog or cat from biting, injuring, menacing, or
attacking any person. Any owner having an aggressive or biting dog shall post a
sign to that effect.
(Ord. 6, passed 1-5-2004)
§ 91.12 CERTAIN DOG BREEDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the city the following breeds of dog:
      (1)   Pitbull dog, as defined in §
91.01;
      (2)   Chinesischer kampfhund (Chinese fighting dog);
      (3)   Chow;
      (4)   Doberman; and
      (5)   Rottweiler.
   (B)   Owners of dogs of the breeds prohibited under this section that are
currently licensed as of the effective date of the ordinances incorporated
herein are exempt from this section for the lifetime of each dog so licensed.
Owners of dogs of the breeds prohibited under this section that have not been
previously licensed shall be allowed a grace period of 90 days from the
effective date of the ordinances incorporated herein to properly identify and
license their dog. Owners that comply with this grace period shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section. The owners of said dogs shall not sell or
in any other way dispose of said dogs to any other person who would keep,
harbor, own, or in any way possess the dog within the corporate limits of the
city. All offspring born of said dogs shall be removed from the city within
eight weeks of the birth of such animal. Exemption of a dog under this section
is not an exemption to other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 42, passed 3-2-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or any person having
control or command of a dog or a cat, to fail to prevent or keep his dog or cat
from doing any damage to a lawn, garden, or other property, or fail to prevent
or keep his dog or cat from biting, injuring, menacing, or attacking any
person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, or harbor a vicious dog in the city
except in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to go
outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no
longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be
kept on a chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless
a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to
inanimate objects such as trees, posts, or buildings. In addition, all vicious
dogs on a leash outside its kennel or pen must be muzzled by a muzzling device
sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or other animals.
      (2)   Confinement. All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or
in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel, or structure must have secure
sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used to confine
vicious dogs must be locked with a key or combination lock when such dogs are
within the structure. Said structure must have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be imbedded in
the ground no less than two feet. Also, such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio,
or any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacles preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      (4)   Signs. All owners, keepers, or harborers of vicious dogs within the
city shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily
readable by the public using the words “beware of dog”. In addition, a similar
sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such dog.
   (C)   Any dog or cat, which bites or injures any person, may upon the order
of the judge of the Circuit Court, municipal division, be impounded and
humanely euthanized.
   (D)   The Circuit Judge, municipal division, shall have in addition to the
judge’s authority under the sentencing provisions under the general penalty
clause of the city the authority to order, as relates to a person who has been
convicted more than once of unlawfully owning, keeping, or harboring a vicious
dog in the city, that such dog shall not be returned to or allowed to remain
with such person, but its disposition shall be determined by the court.
(Prior Code, § 205.040) (Ord. 40, passed 11-5-2008) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.14 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals for which there is a duty to impound or are authorized to be
impounded under §
91.15, as well as any abandoned animal, may be seized and impounded as provided
under this section.
   (A)   In the event a dog or cat bites or injures any person or in the event
that the officer, under the provisions of §
91.15, exercises his or her discretion to impound a dog or cat which injures or
bites another animal, then, except as provided under division (B), the dog or
cat shall be impounded by the owner with a veterinarian of the owner’s choice.
It shall be unlawful for the animal’s owner to refuse to impound the animal. If
the animal’s owner does not impound the animal, then the Chief of Police or
city police are authorized to impound, and, if facilities are not sufficient at
the city’s pound, place said animal with a veterinarian in the county. Said
animal shall remain impounded for ten days, and, if the animal does not develop
or manifest rabies, it may be redeemed by the owner upon the payment of the
impoundment fee, the boarding fee of the city or veterinarian, depending upon
the impoundment, and, if not redeemed at the end of the ten day period, shall
be humanely disposed of as provided in this section.
   (B)   In lieu of the impoundment required in division (A) above and at the
discretion of the Chief of Police, city police, or any other person of the city
especially designated by the Board of Aldermen and the Mayor for such purpose,
the animal may be impounded at the owner’s place of residence if all of the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   The animal has been vaccinated against rabies as required by the
chapter;
      (2)   The animal is properly licensed by the city at the time of
incident;
      (3)   Neither the animal nor any other animal kept at the owner’s
residence has a history of running at large;
      (4)   The animal does not have a history of causing injury to any person
or animal;
      (5)   The animal’s owner authorizes the city’s officer to monitor the
animal’s condition for ten days; and
      (6)   The animal’s owner agrees to have the animal examined by a
veterinarian on the tenth day of impoundment.
   (C)   In all other instances in which a dog or a cat is impounded, if the
dog or cat is not redeemed by the owner within one week after impoundment, the
dog or cat may be disposed of in one of the following ways but in no other way:
      (1)   Euthanasia using the method approved by the Humane Society of the
United States; or
      (2)   Release for adoption by a new owner who shows evidence of ability
and intention of providing the dog or cat with an appropriate home and humane
care and completion of the licensing vaccination procedures before release.
   (D)   The authorized officer, in impounding a dog or cat for reasons other
than biting or injuring a person or another animal, shall keep said dog or cat
at the city pound, unless the pound is full or the nature of the animal makes
it dangerous or difficult to impound the animal at the city pound, in which
case, the officer shall have the discretion to impound the animal with a
veterinarian.
   (E)   An owner redeeming a dog or cat from impoundment shall make payment to
the City Clerk or the Chief of Police a $25 impoundment fee, in addition to a
fee of $15 per day for each day or part of the day the animal has been
impounded in the city pound, or payment to the veterinarian of the
veterinarian’s customary and normal boarding fees for boarding said animal. In
addition, the owner shall show proof that the animal has been licensed and
properly vaccinated.
   (F)   Any new owner adopting a dog or cat from the city pound shall pay $10
per day for each day or part of the day the animal has been impounded in the
city pound, or pay the customary fee of the veterinarian for boarding the
animal if the animal was boarded with a veterinarian, plus a $15 adoption fee
to the city.
   (G)   The intent of this subchapter is to require dog owners to comply with
the law, not merely to operate an impoundment program. Police officers shall
therefore place primary emphasis on apprehending and initiating prosecution of
violators of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 205.045) (Ord. 40, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 91.15 DUTY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, the city police, and any
other person of the city, especially designated by the Board of Aldermen and
the Mayor, for such purpose, to take up any dog without the tag provided in §
91.02, any dog or cat running at large, any vicious dog in violation of §
91.12, any dog or cat which bites or injures any person, and to impound the
same.
   (B)   The aforesaid officers shall also have discretion to impound any dog
or cat, which bites or injures another animal.
   (C)   In effect of the capture of any dog or cat, the officers aforesaid are
authorized to use traps, nets, tranquilizer guns, or any other humane method.
(Prior Code, § 205.050) (Ord. 40, passed 11-5-2008)
§ 91.16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person having unlawfully removed any animal from the city animal
shelter after it has been placed in said shelter by the Chief of Police or his
or her designate shall be charged with a misdemeanor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without authorization from the
Chief of Police, to be on or near the city’s animal shelter between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (C)   Hours of service at the city’s animal shelter shall be 9:00 a.m. to 9:
00 p.m., or by appointment Tuesday through Saturday. Animals can only be
released or adopted during these hours or by special arrangements with the
Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 205.060) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.17 BARKING DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any dog which
continually barks or cries so as to disturb the peace, comfort, and repose of
any person in the neighborhood.
   (B)   Any violation of this section is punishable as a violation of the
municipal code of the city.
(Ord. 65, passed 10-3-2011)
LIVESTOCK, FOWL, AND WILD/EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.30 CERTAIN ANIMALS AND FOWLS TO BE RESTRAINED.
   Horses, mules, asses, cattle, hogs, sheep, goat, geese, and any other non-
domesticated animals are hereby prohibited from running at large within the
corporate limits of this city and all such animals and fowls found running at
large within said limits shall be taken up and impounded in some suitable
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 205.070)
§ 91.31 SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; DUTIES OF STREET COMMISSIONER.
   Whenever any horse, mule, ass, cattle, hog, sheep, goat, or goose named in §
91.30 shall have been taken up and impounded as herein provided and no owner
shall appear and claim the same, after the expiration of three days from the
date of such impounding, to advertise such animal or fowl for sale at public
auction to the highest bidder for cash, giving five days’ notice of the time
and place of sale by written or printed hand bills posted in at least six
public places within the city, which hand bills shall contain a brief
description of the animal or animals or fowls to be sold, specifying the color,
marks, and brands of the same.
(Prior Code, § 205.080)
§ 91.32 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OR FOWLS.
   The owner of any animal or fowl taken up and impounded as provided in this
subchapter may redeem the same at any time on or before the day of sale by
paying fees and such necessary expenses as have been incurred by reason of the
detention of such animal or fowl and thereupon the Chief of Police shall
forthwith deliver the animal or fowl to the owner thereof or to his or her
legal representative.
(Prior Code, § 205.090)
§ 91.33 RECORD OF SALE, DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS, AND THE LIKE.
   The Chief of Police shall file in the office of the City Clerk an accurate
record of every sale made under the provisions of this subchapter, which record
shall contain a minute description of the animal or fowl, on or before the last
week of each month.
(Prior Code, § 205.100)
§ 91.34 MONIES REFUNDED; HOW AND WHEN.
   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen at any time before the expiration of six
months may refund monies paid into the Treasury under this subchapter, upon due
proof by affidavit or other evidence, that the person claiming such money was
the legal owner of such animal or animals or fowls from the sale of which said
money was paid into the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 205.110)
§ 91.35 HORSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or maintain a horse
within the city limits, unless the lot or parcel of land on which the horse
will be kept or maintained is at least one acre for each horse owned, kept, or
maintained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to house a horse within a stable, barn, or other
shelter unless said stable, barn, or other shelter is set back a minimum of 50
feet from every property line.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, or maintain a horse on any lot or
parcel in the city limits without a fence with sufficient height to prevent the
horse from running at large.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to own, maintain, or keep a horse within the city
limits without providing for the normal and prudent intention to the needs of
said horse, including wholesome food, clean water, shelter, and health care as
necessary to maintain the good health of the horse.
(Prior Code, § 205.120) Penalty §
91.99
§ 91.36 WILD ANIMALS, EXOTIC ANIMALS, PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the city:
      (1)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animal
(including, but not limited to, non-human primates, bats, raccoons, skunks,
foxes, leopards, lions, tigers, bobcats, panthers, and other wild and exotic
cats, bears, alligators, crocodiles, but excluding fowl, ferrets, and small
rodents of varieties used for laboratory purposes); and
      (2)   (a)   Any animal having venomous or poisonous bites. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess a non-
poisonous snake unless it is kept in an escape-proof cage.
         (b)   No snake shall be permitted by the owner, keeper, or handler to
escape from a cage or to escape while being handled.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to circuses, zoos, research
laboratories, or veterinary hospitals.
(Prior Code, § 205.130) Penalty §
91.99
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 91.50 ANIMAL NEGLECT OR ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of animal neglect when he or she has custody or
ownership or both of an animal and fails to provide adequate care or adequate
control which results in substantial harm to the animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of animal abandonment when he or she has knowingly
abandoned an animal in any place without making provisions for its adequate
care.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this section, the court
may order a person found guilty of animal neglect or animal abandonment to pay
all reasonable costs and expenses necessary for:
      (1)   The care and maintenance of neglected or abandoned animals within
the person’s custody or ownership;
      (2)   The disposal of any dead or diseased animals within the person’s
custody or ownership;
      (3)   The reduction of resulting organic debris affecting the immediate
area of the neglect or abandonment; and
      (4)   The avoidance or minimization of any public health risks created by
the neglect or abandonment of the animals.
(Prior Code, § 205.140)
§ 91.51 ANIMAL ABUSE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
      (1)   Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of RSMo. §§ 578.005 to
578.023 and 273.030;
      (2)   Purposely or intentionally causes injury or suffering to an animal;
or
      (3)   Having ownership or custody of an animal knowingly fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control.
   (B)   Note: Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under
state law.
(Prior Code, § 205.150)
§ 91.52 KNOWINGLY RELEASING AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of knowingly releasing an animal if that
person, acting without the consent of the owner or custodian of an animal,
intentionally releases any animal that is lawfully confined for the purpose of
companionship or protection of persons or property or for recreation,
exhibition, or educational purposes.
   (B)   As used in this section, ANIMAL means every living creature,
domesticated or wild, but not including homo sapiens.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a public servant
acting in the course of such servant’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 205.160)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provisions of
§
91.12 shall be subject to §
10.99 and, upon conviction in municipal court, be fined a sum of not less than
$200. In addition, said animal shall not be returned to or allowed to remain
with such person but its disposition shall be determined by the court.
(Ord. 42, passed 3-2-2009)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
92.03   Open storage of inoperable vehicles or public safety hazards prohibited
   
92.04   Obstructing the flow of traffic prohibited
   
92.05   Towing of abandoned property on public real property
   
92.06   Towing of abandoned property on private real property
   
92.07   General provisions and procedures
   
92.08   Maximum charges
   
92.09   Sale of abandoned property by city
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any unattended motor vehicle, trailer, all-terrain
vehicle, outboard motor, or vessel removed or subject to removal from public or
private property as provided in this chapter, whether or not operational. For
any vehicle towed from the scene of an accident at the request of law
enforcement and not retrieved by the vehicle’s owner within five days of the
accident, the agency requesting the tow shall be required to write an abandoned
property report or a criminal inquiry and inspection report.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, or other legal entity.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width of land between the boundary lines of a
public road or state highway, including any roadway.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a public road or state highway ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      TOWING COMPANY. Any person or entity which tows, removes, or stores
abandoned property.
      URBANIZED AREA. An area with a population of 50,000 or more designated by
the Bureau of the Census within boundaries to be fixed by the state’s Highways
and Transportation Commission and local officials in cooperation with each
other and approved by the Secretary of Transportation. The boundary of an
urbanized area shall, at a minimum, encompass the entire urbanized area as
designed by the Bureau of the Census.
   (B)   Any vehicle that has been inoperable for more than 30 days or is in
such a state as to be inoperable, except those vehicles located on the premises
of a licensed automobile repair or sale business or a licensed automobile
salvage yard or vehicles in the process of continuous being repaired or as
authorized by the Council following a hearing as provided under §
90.04(B).
   (C)   All operable or inoperable appliances such as refrigerators, stoves,
washing machines, dryers, television sets, water heaters, furnaces, and the
like, and all other major or minor appliances or parts thereof which are not in
use and remain outside the residence excepting those items placed outside to be
picked up for collection purposes or as authorized by the Council following a
hearing as provided under §
90.04(B).
(Prior Code, § 215.030) (Ord. 81, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 92.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any public
road or state highway or on any private real property owned by another without
his or her consent.
(Prior Code, § 215.040) Penalty §
92.99
§ 92.03 OPEN STORAGE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES OR PUBLIC SAFETY HAZARDS
PROHIBITED.
   The open storage of inoperable vehicles or other vehicles deemed by the city
to constitute a public safety hazard is prohibited. Nothing in this section
shall apply to a vehicle which is completely enclosed within a locked building
or locked fenced area and not visible from adjacent public or private property,
nor to any vehicle upon the property of a business licensed as salvage, swap,
junk dealer, towing, or storage facility so long as the business is operated in
compliance with its business license and the property is in compliance with
applicable zoning ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 215.050) Penalty §
92.99
§ 92.04 OBSTRUCTING THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   Except in the case of an accident resulting in the injury or death of any
person, the driver of a vehicle which for any reason obstructs the regular flow
of traffic on the roadway of any public road or state highway shall make every
reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the
regular flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 215.060) Penalty §
92.99
§ 92.05 TOWING OF ABANDONED PROPERTY ON PUBLIC REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer, or an official of the city where the
city’s real property is concerned, may authorize a towing company to remove to
a place of safety:
      (1)   Any abandoned property on the right-of-way of:
         (a)   Any state highway or interstate highway or freeway in an
urbanized area of the city left unattended for ten hours; and
         (b)   Any state highway or interstate highway or freeway outside of an
urbanized area of the city left unattended for more than 48 hours; provided
that commercial motor vehicles not hauling waste designated as hazardous under
49 U.S.C. 5103(a) may only be removed under this section to a place of safety
until the owner or owner’s representative has had a reasonable opportunity to
contact a towing company of choice.
      (2)   Any unattended abandoned property illegally left standing upon any
highway or bridge if the abandoned property is left in a position or under such
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic where there is no
reasonable indication that the person in control of the property is arranging
for its immediate control or removal;
      (3)   Any abandoned property which has been abandoned under RSMo. §
577.080;
      (4)   Any abandoned property which has been reported as stolen or taken
without consent of the owner;
      (5)   Any abandoned property for which the person operating such property
is arrested for an alleged offense for which the officer is required to take
the person into custody and where such person is unable to arrange for the
property’s timely removal;
      (6)   Any abandoned property which, due to any other state law or city
ordinance, is subject to towing because of the owner’s outstanding traffic or
parking violations; and
      (7)   Any abandoned property left unattended in violation of a state law
or city ordinance where signs have been posted giving notice of the law or
where the violation causes a safety hazard.
   (B)   When the city’s Police Department authorizes a tow pursuant to this
section in which the abandoned property is moved from the immediate vicinity,
it shall complete a crime inquiry and inspection report.
   (C)   Any city agency other than the city’s Police Department authorizing a
tow under this section where property is towed away from the immediate vicinity
shall report the tow to the city’s Police Department within two hours of the
tow, along with a crime inquiry and inspection report.
(Prior Code, § 215.070)
§ 92.06 TOWING OF ABANDONED PROPERTY ON PRIVATE REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. The city, including the city’s Police Department, may tow
motor vehicles from real property which are deemed a public safety hazard
pursuant to §
92.03 or are derelict junk, scrapped, disassembled, or otherwise harmful to the
public health. The city shall perform such tow pursuant to the terms of §
92.07. When a city agency other than the Police Department authorizes a tow
under this division (A), it shall report the tow to the Police Department
within two hours with a crime inquiry and inspection report.
   (B)   Towing authorized by City’s Police Department. If a person abandons
property on any real property owned by another without the consent of the owner
or person in possession of the real property, at the request of the person in
possession of the real property, any city police officer may authorize a towing
company to remove such abandoned property from the property in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The abandoned property is left unattended for more than 48 hours;
or
      (2)   In the judgment of a police officer, the abandoned property
constitutes a safety hazard or unreasonably interferes with the use of the real
property by the person in possession.
   (C)   Towing authorized by real property owner, lessee, or property or
security manager.
      (1)   The owner of real property or lessee in lawful possession of the
real property or the property or security manager of the real property may
authorize a towing company to remove abandoned property or property parked in a
restricted or assigned area without authorization by a law enforcement officer
only when the owner, lessee, or property or security manager of the real
property is present. A property or security manager must be a full-time
employee of a business entity. An authorization to tow pursuant to this
division (C) may be made only under any of the following circumstances:
         (a)   Sign. There is displayed, in plain view at all entrances to the
property, a sign not less than 17 by 22 inches in size, with lettering not less
than one inch in height, prohibiting public parking and indicating that
unauthorized abandoned property or property parked in a restricted or assigned
area will be removed at the owner’s expense, disclosing the maximum fee for all
charges related to towing and storage, and containing the telephone number of
the local traffic law enforcement agency where information can be obtained or a
24 hour staffed emergency information telephone number by which the owner of
the abandoned property or property parked in a restricted or assigned area may
call to receive information regarding the location of such owner’s property;
         (b)   Unattended on owner-occupied residential property. The abandoned
property is left unattended on owner-occupied residential property with four
residential units of less and the owner, lessee, or agent of the real property
in lawful possession has notified the city’s Police Department, and ten hours
have elapsed since that notification; and
         (c)   Unattended on other private real property. The abandoned
property is left unattended on private real property and the owner, lessee, or
agent of the real property in lawful possession of real property has notified
the city’s Police Department, and 96 hours have elapsed since that
notification.
      (2)   Pursuant to this section, any owner or lessee in lawful possession
of real property that requests a towing company to tow abandoned property
without authorization from a city police officer shall at that time complete an
abandoned property report which shall be considered a legal declaration,
subject to criminal penalty pursuant to RSMo. §
         (a)   The year, model, make, and abandoned property identification
number of the property and the owner and any lienholders, if known;
         (b)   A description of any damage to the abandoned properly noted by
owner, lessee, or property or security manager in possession of the real
property;
         (c)   The license plate or registration number and the state of
issuance, if available;
         (d)   The physical location of the property and the reason for
requesting the property to be towed;
         (e)   The date the report is completed;
         (f)   The printed name, address, and telephone number of the owner,
lessee, or property or security manager in possession of the real property;
         (g)   The towing company’s name and address;
         (h)   The signature of the towing operator;
         (i)   The signature of the owner, lessee, or property or security
manager attesting to the facts that the property has been abandoned for the
time required by this section and that all statements on the report are true
and correct to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief and that the
person is subject to the penalties for making false statements;
         (j)   Space for the name of the law enforcement agency notified of the
abandoned property and for the signature of the law enforcement official
receiving the report; and
         (k)   Any additional information the state’s Director of Revenue deems
appropriate.
      (3)   Any towing company which tows abandoned property without
authorization from the city’s Police Department pursuant to division (B) above
shall deliver a copy of the abandoned property report to the city’s Police
Department. The copy may be produced and sent by facsimile machine or other
device which produces a near exact likeness of the print and signatures
required, but only if the city’s Police Department has the technological
capability of receiving such copy and has registered the towing company for
such purpose. The report shall be delivered within two hours if the tow was
made from a signed location pursuant to division (C)(1)(a) above, otherwise the
report shall be delivered within 24 hours.
      (4)   The city’s Police Department, after receiving such abandoned
property report, shall record the date on which the abandoned property report
is filed with the Police Department and shall promptly make an inquiry into the
National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and any statewide law enforcement
computer system to determine if the abandoned property has been reported as
stolen. The Police Department shall enter the information pertaining to the
towed property into the statewide law enforcement computer system and a police
officer shall sign the abandoned property report and provide the towing company
with a signed copy.
      (5)   The city’s Police Department, after receiving notification that
abandoned property has been towed by a towing company, shall search the records
of the state’s Department of Revenue and provide the towing company with the
latest owner and lienholder information on the abandoned property. If the
abandoned property is not claimed within ten working days, the towing company
shall send a copy of the abandoned property report signed by a law enforcement
officer to the Department of Revenue.
      (6)   No owner, lessee, or property or security manager of real property
shall knowingly authorize the removal of abandoned property in violation of
this section.
      (7)   Any owner of any private real property causing the removal of
abandoned property from that real property shall state the grounds for the
removal of the abandoned property if requested by the registered owner of that
abandoned property. Any towing company that lawfully removes abandoned property
from private property with the written authorization of the property owner or
the property owner’s agent who is present at the time of removal shall not be
held responsible in any situation relating to the validity of the removal. Any
towing company that removes abandoned property at the direction of the
landowner shall be responsible for:
         (a)   Any damage caused by the towing company to the property in the
transit and subsequent storage of the property; and
         (b)   The removal of property other than the property specified by the
owner of the private real property from which the abandoned property was
removed.
   (D)   Damage to property. The owner of abandoned property removed from
private real property may recover for any damage to the property resulting from
any act of any person causing the removal of, or removing, the abandoned
property.
   (E)   Real property owner liability. Any owner of any private real property
causing the removal of abandoned property parked on that property is liable to
the owner of the abandoned property for double the storage or towing charges
whenever there has been a failure to comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   Written authorization required; delegation of authority to tow.
      (1)   Except for the removal of abandoned property authorized by the
city’s Police Department pursuant to this section, a towing company shall not
remove or commence the removal of abandoned property from private real property
without first obtaining written authorization from the real property owner.
      (2)   All written authorizations shall be maintained for at least one
year by the towing company.
      (3)   General authorization to remove or commence removal of abandoned
property at the towing company’s discretion shall not be delegated to a towing
company or its affiliates except in the case of abandoned property unlawfully
parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or in a fire lane designated by a Fire
Department or the state’s Fire Marshal.
   (G)   Towing company liability. Any towing company, or any affiliate of a
towing company, which removes, or commences removal of, abandoned property from
private property without first obtaining written authorization from the
property owner or lessee, or any employee or agent thereof, who is present at
the time of removal or commencement of the removal, except as permitted in
division (F) above, is liable to the owner of the property for four times the
amount of the towing and storage charges, in addition to any applicable
ordinance violation penalty, for a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 215.080)
§ 92.07 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner of abandoned property removed as
provided in this subchapter shall be responsible for payment of all reasonable
charges for towing and storage of such abandoned property as provided in §
93.09.
   (B)   Crime inquiry and inspection report.
      (1)   Upon the towing of any abandoned property pursuant to §
92.05 or under authority of a law enforcement officer or local governmental
agency pursuant to §
92.06, the city’s Police Department, where it authorized such towing or was
properly notified by another governmental agency of such towing, shall promptly
make an inquiry with the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and any
statewide law enforcement computer system to determine if the abandoned
property has been reported as stolen and shall enter the information pertaining
to the towed property into the statewide law enforcement computer system.
      (2)   If the abandoned property is not claimed within ten working days of
the towing, the city’s Police Department shall submit a crime inquiry and
inspection report to the state’s Director of Revenue. The city’s Police
Department shall also provide one copy of the report to the storage facility
and one copy to the towing company. A towing company in possession of abandoned
property after ten working days shall report such fact to the city’s Police
Department. The crime inquiry and inspection report shall be designated by the
Director of Revenue and shall include the following:
         (a)   The year, model, make, and property identification number of the
property and the owner and any lienholders, if known;
         (b)   A description of any damage to the property noted by the law
enforcement officer authorizing the tow;
         (c)   The license plate or registration number and the state of
issuance, if available;
         (d)   The storage location of the towed property;
         (e)   The name, telephone number, and address of the towing company;
         (f)   The date, place, and reason for the towing of the abandoned
property;
         (g)   The date of the inquiry of the National Crime Information
Center, any statewide law enforcement computer system, and any other similar
system which has titling and registration information to determine if the
abandoned property had been stolen. This information shall be entered only by
the city’s Police Department;
         (h)   The signature and printed name of the law enforcement officer
authorizing the tow and the towing operator; and
         (i)   Any additional information the state’s Director of Revenue deems
appropriate.
   (C)   Reclaiming property. The owner of such abandoned property, or the
holder of a valid security interest of record, may reclaim it from the towing
company upon proof of ownership or valid security interest of record and
payment of all reasonable charges for the towing and storage of the abandoned
property.
   (D)   Lienholder repossession. If a lienholder repossesses any motor
vehicle, trailer, all-terrain vehicle, outboard motor, or vessel without the
knowledge or cooperation of the owner, then the repossessor shall notify the
city’s Police Department within two hours of the repossession and shall further
provide the Police Department with any additional information the Police
Department deems appropriate. The city’s Police Department shall make an
inquiry with the National Crime Information Center and the statewide law
enforcement computer system and shall enter the repossessed vehicle into the
statewide law enforcement computer system.
   (E)   Notice to owner/tow lien claim. Any towing company which comes into
possession of abandoned property pursuant to this subchapter and who claims a
lien for recovering, towing, or storing abandoned property shall give notice to
the title owner and to all persons claiming a lien thereon, as disclosed by the
records of the state’s Department of Revenue or of a corresponding agency in
any other state. The towing company shall notify the owner and any lienholder
within ten business days of the date of mailing indicated on the notice sent by
the state’s Department of Revenue, pursuant to RSMo. § 304.156, by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the storage facility;
      (2)   The date, reason, and place from which the abandoned property was
removed;
      (3)   A statement that the amount of the accrued towing, storage, and
administrative costs are the responsibility of the owner, and that storage and/
or administrative costs will continue to accrue as a legal liability of the
owner until the abandoned property is redeemed;
      (4)   A statement that the storage firm claims a possessory lien for all
such charges;
      (5)   A statement that the owner or holder of a valid security interest
of record may retake possession of the abandoned property at any time during
business hours by proving ownership or rights to a secured interest and paying
all towing and storage charges;
      (6)   A statement that, should the owner consider that the towing or
removal was improper or not legally justified, the owner has a right to request
a hearing as provided in this section to contest the propriety of such towing
or removal;
      (7)   A statement that if the abandoned property remains unclaimed for 30
days from the date of mailing the notice, title to the abandoned property will
be transferred to the person or firm in possession of the abandoned property
free of all prior liens; and
      (8)   A statement that any charges in excess of the value of the
abandoned property at the time of such transfer shall remain a liability of the
owner.
   (F)   Physical search of property. In the event that the state’s Department
of Revenue notifies the towing company that the records of the Department of
Revenue fail to disclose the name of the owner or any lienholder of record, the
towing company shall attempt to locate documents or other evidence of ownership
on or within the abandoned property itself. The towing company must certify
that a physical search of the abandoned property disclosed no ownership
documents were found and a good faith effort has been made. For purposes of
this section, GOODFAITH EFFORT means that the following checks have been
performed by the company to establish the prior state of registration and
title:
      (1)   Check of the abandoned property for any type of license plates,
license plate record, temporary permit, inspection sticker, decal, or other
evidence which may indicate a state of possible registration and title;
      (2)   Check the law enforcement report for a license plate number or
registration number if the abandoned property was towed at the request of a law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Check the tow ticket/report of the tow truck operator to see if a
license plate was on the abandoned property at the beginning of the tow, if a
private tow; and
      (4)   If there is no address of the owner on the impound report, check
the law enforcement report to see if an out-of-state address is indicated on
the driver license information.
   (G)   Petition in Circuit Court. The owner of the abandoned property removed
pursuant to this subchapter or any person claiming a lien, other than the
towing company, within ten days after the receipt of notification from the
towing company pursuant to division (E) above may file a petition in the
Associate Circuit Court in the county where the abandoned property is stored to
determine if the abandoned property was wrongfully taken or withheld from the
owner. The petition shall name the towing company among the defendants. The
petition may also name the agency ordering the tow or the owner, lessee, or
agent of the real property from which the abandoned property was removed. The
state’s Director of Revenue shall not be a party to such petition but a copy of
the petition shall be served on the Director of Revenue.
   (H)   Notice to owner.
      (1)   Notice as to the removal of any abandoned property pursuant to this
subchapter shall be made, in writing, within five working days to the
registered owner and any lienholder of the fact of the removal, the grounds for
the removal, and the place to which the property has been removed by either:
         (a)   The public agency authorizing the removal; or
         (b)   The towing company, where authorization was made by an owner or
lessee of real property.
      (2)   If the abandoned property is stored in any storage facility, a copy
of the notice shall be given to the operator of the facility. The notice
provided for in this section shall include the amount of mileage if available
shown on the abandoned property at the time of removal.
   (I)   Tow truck requirements. Any towing company which tows abandoned
property for hire shall have the towing company’s name, city, and state clearly
printed in letters at least three inches in height on the sides of the truck,
wrecker, or other vehicle used in the towing.
   (J)   Storage facilities. Persons operating or in charge of any storage
facility where the abandoned property is stored pursuant to this subchapter
shall accept cash for payment of towing and storage by a registered owner or
the owner’s agent claiming the abandoned property.
(Prior Code, § 215.090)
§ 92.08 MAXIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   A towing company may only assess reasonable storage charges for
abandoned property towed without the consent of the owner. Reasonable storage
charges shall not exceed the charges for vehicles which have been towed with
the consent of the owner on a negotiated basis. Storage charges may be assessed
only for the time in which the towing company complies with the procedural
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen may from time to time establish maximum
reasonable towing, storage, and other charges which can be imposed by towing
and storage companies operating within the city, and which are consistent with
this chapter and with RSMo. §§ 304.155 to 304.158. Any violation of said
established maximum charges shall be deemed a violation of this section of the
code and shall be punishable pursuant to §
10.99.
   (C)   A towing company may impose a charge of not more than one-half of the
regular towing charge for the towing of abandoned property at the request of
the owner of private real property or that owner’s agent pursuant to this
chapter if the owner of the abandoned property or the owner’s agent returns to
the abandoned property before it is removed from the private real property. The
regular towing charge may only be imposed after the abandoned property has been
removed from the property and is in transit.
(Prior Code, § 215.100)
§ 92.09 SALE OF ABANDONED PROPERTY BY CITY.
   When the city has physical possession of the abandoned property, it may sell
the abandoned property in accordance with its established provisions and
regulations and may transfer ownership by means of a bill of sale signed by the
City Clerk and sealed with the official city seal. Such bill of sale shall
contain the make and model of the abandoned property, the complete abandoned
property identification number, and the odometer reading of the abandoned
property if available and shall be lawful proof of ownership for any dealer
registered under the provisions of RSMo. §§ 301.218 or 301.560 or for any other
person.
(Prior Code, § 215.110)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of §
92.04 is guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 215.060)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING AND TAXING
      
111.   LIQUOR OPERATIONS
      
112.   CIGARETTE SALES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING AND TAXING
Section
Business Licensing
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Persons not to be charged for business license
   
110.03   License application and issuance
   
110.04   License fees
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   Term of license
   
110.07   Duty of City Clerk
   
110.08   Renewal applications
   
110.09   Display of license
   
110.10   Excepted businesses and occupations
   
110.11   Revocation of license; grounds
   
110.12   Revocation of license; procedure
Taxes
   
110.25   Electric service; tax imposed
   
110.26   Electric service; in lieu of other taxes
   
110.27   Electric service; maintenance of imposed tax
   
110.28   Natural gas; maintenance of imposed tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BUSINESS LICENSING
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in any
business or occupation in the city without having first applied for and
obtained a license to conduct such business or occupation from the City Clerk
and without paying the license fee therefor, all as provided for in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 605.010) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 PERSONS NOT TO BE CHARGED FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Hereafter no person following for a livelihood the profession or
calling of minister of the gospel, duly accredited Christian Science
practitioner, teacher, professor in a college, priest, lawyer, certified public
accountant, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, chiropodist, or physician or
surgeon in this city shall be taxed or made liable to pay any municipal or
other corporation tax or license fee of any description whatever for the
privilege of following or carrying on such profession or calling, any law,
ordinance, or charter to the contrary notwithstanding.
   (B)   No person following for a livelihood the profession of insurance agent
or broker, veterinarian, architect, professional engineer, land surveyor,
auctioneer, or real estate broker or salesperson in this city shall be taxed or
made liable to pay any municipal or other corporation tax or license fee for
the privilege of following or carrying on his or her profession unless that
person maintains a business office within the city.
(Prior Code, § 605.015)
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   All applications for the licenses required herein shall be made to the
City Clerk on appropriate forms provided for that purpose by the city. All
licenses issued by the City Clerk shall be in such form as is provided by the
Board of Aldermen, provided however, that such license shall bear the signature
of the Mayor of the Board of Aldermen and the City Clerk, the date of issuance
thereof, and the date of expiration, as well as any additional information that
may be required by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   No license of any kind shall be issued to any person, firm, or
corporation by the city, if the applicant for said license shall, at the time
of said application, be indebted to the city on any delinquent tax, either tax
on personal property or real estate.
(Prior Code, § 605.020)
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, company or corporations,
either by itself as owner or proprietor, or any officer, manager,
superintendent, agent, servant, or employee to exercise, carry on, or engage in
any of the following named occupations, trades, business, or agencies within
the corporate limits of the city without first taking out and having a license
there for and the charge for such license shall not be less the minimum amount
of $20 as determined by the Council at their meeting on April 1, 2013. It shall
be unlawful for any person or persons, company, or corporations, either by
itself as owner or proprietor, or any officer, manager, superintendent, agent,
servant, or employee, to exercise, carry on, or engage in an of the following
named occupations, trades, business, or agencies within the corporate limits of
the city without first taking out and having an annual license there for and
the charge for such license shall be no less than $20 per year, along with the
references that follow.
   (A)   Agents. Every person who shall engage in the business of soliciting
orders for agricultural implements, wagons, farm machinery, sewing machines, or
groceries at retail, prices, and furniture and household fixtures shall pay as
a license the sum of $11 per year.
   (B)   Bakeries. Every person engaged in the manufacture for sale of bread
and other bakery products shall be deemed to carry on or conduct the business
of a bakery and shall pay as a license the sum of $7.50 per year.
   (C)   Bankrupt stock sale. Each bankrupt stock sale shall pay as a license
the sum of $15 per day.
   (D)   Banks. Each bank shall pay as a license the sum of $25 per year.
   (E)   Barbershops. Each owner or manager of any barbershop shall pay as a
license the sum of $5 per year.
   (F)   Beauty shop. Same as barbershops; refer to division (E) above.
   (G)   Carnivals. Each carnival company shall pay, as a license, the sum of
$10 per day.
   (H)   Contractor.
      (1)   A person who, in pursuit of an independent business, undertakes to
perform a job or piece of work retaining in himself or herself control of
means, method, and matter of accomplishing the desired result shall pay as a
license fee the sum of $10, to wit:
         (a)   Auctioneers (maintaining an office in city);
         (b)   Brick contractor;
         (c)   Building contractor;
         (d)   Cabinet shops;
         (e)   Concrete contractor;
         (f)   Dry cleaners;
         (g)   Electrical contractor;
         (h)   Excavating and grading contractor;
         (i)   Exterminators;
         (j)   Painting contractor;
         (k)   Plastering contractor;
         (1)   Plumbing contractor;
         (m)   Trash contractors;
         (n)   Vendor machine operators; and
         (o)   Welding contractor.
      (2)   Any business or service not covered above shall pay a license fee
in the sum of $10 per year.
   (I)   Elevators. Each operator of an elevator or who shall conduct a place
of business for buying or selling grain shall pay as a license the sum of $20
per year.
   (J)   Filling station. Every person operating a filling station shall pay as
a license the sum of $6 per year.
   (K)   Garage; public. Any person owning, conducting, or operating any garage
for the storage of motor vehicles for hire or washing or repairing the same and
in selling automobiles, parts, or accessories shall be deemed to be operating a
garage, provided that this division (K) shall not apply to automobile dealers
or to accessory dealers duly licensed and paying a license as such, shall pay
as a license the sum of $15 per year.
   (L)   General contractor. A person who shall perform more than one of the
categories of building, laying brick, finishing concrete, excavating,
performing electrical work, painting, plastering, or roofing. A purchase of a
general contractor’s license shall entitle that person to do any and all forms
of contracting within the confines of the city. The sum of the license fee
shall be $20 per year.
   (M)   Handyperson. Shall pay as a license fee the sum of $5 per year.
   (N)   Hatcheries. Every person operating a hatchery shall pay as a license
the sum of $10 per year and the term HATCHERY means a place where eggs are
hatched and young fowl thus produced are sold.
   (O)   Hawkers. Each and every hawker shall pay as a license the sum of $5
per day.
   (P)   Hotels. The proprietor or manager of each and every hotel shall pay as
an annual license the sum of $10 per year.
   (Q)   Insurance agent (maintaining an office in the city). Shall pay as a
license fee the sum of $11 per year.
   (R)   Ice and coal dealers. Every dealer in ice and coal or fuel, not
including oil, shall pay a license fee of $15 per year.
   (S)   Itinerant optician or optometrists. Every person who is not a licensed
and practicing physician who engages in the business of fitting glasses shall
pay as a license the sum of $5 per day for each and every day that he or she
engages in such business in the city.
   (T)   Lumber dealers. Each and every person who owns or runs a lumberyard or
deals in lumber, separate from a mercantile business, shall pay as a license
the sum of $20 per year. Additional license shall be required on any other
service rendered such as plumbing, electrical, carpentry, and the like. Refer
to division (L) above for license fee.
   (U)   Manufacturer. Every person engaged in treating, processing, refining,
improving, combining, fabricating, assembling, or otherwise adding to the
usability, value, or appearance of commodities or other personal property,
whether done on order or for sale upon expected or anticipated demand, or
orders for the manufactured goods, shall pay as a license fee the sum of $15
per year.
   (V)   Merchant’s license. Each merchant shall pay as a license the sum of
$15 per year.
   (W)   Opera houses or public halls. Every person who shall operate an opera
house or public hall where admission is charged to the general public for
attending shall pay as a license the sum of $5 per year.
   (X)   Peddlers. See §
113.15.
   (Y)   Photographers. Every person engaging in the business of photography
for hire shall pay as a license the sum of $5 per year.
   (Z)   Picture shows. Every person owning or running any picture show,
whether under cover or in the open, shall pay as a license the sum of $11 per
year.
   (AA)   Plumbers. Every person engaged with plumbing, installation, or
repairs shall pay a license sum of $10 per year and any person engaging in
selling supplies, articles, or fixtures shall be required to pay an additional
license for the sum of $15 per year as a merchant license.
   (BB)   Pool and billiards. Each owner or operator of a pool or billiard
table or tables operated for profit shall pay as a license the sum of $10 per
table.
   (CC)   Printing office. Each printing office shall pay as a license the sum
of $7.50 per year.
   (DD)   Produce dealers. Every person, firm, or corporation dealing in
purchasing exclusively shall pay as a license the sum of $20 per year.
   (EE)   Restaurant. Proprietors or managers of every restaurant shall pay as
a license the sum of $10 per year.
   (FF)   Scales. Each owner or manager of a set of public scales used,
operated, or located in the city shall pay as a license the sum of $4 per year,
provided that no person who has paid a license under this chapter to operate a
business and who operates scales in connection with his or her business shall
be required to take out an additional license to charge fees for weighing over
his or her scales.
   (GG)   Tank wagons. Every person who operates a tank wagon or bulk station
and shall deliver gasoline to filling stations or other customer direct from
said tank wagon shall pay a license fee of $11 per year, provided however, that
if any filling station operator operates a bulk station for the exclusive and
sole purpose of supplying gasoline to his or her filling station, said person
shall not be required to take out an additional license for such tank wagon.
   (HH)   Telephone companies. Every telephone company doing business within
the limits of the city shall pay as a license the sum of $50 per year.
   (II)   Transfers or drays. Each owner or operator of a dray, wagon, truck,
or motor truck shall pay as a license the sum of $4.50 per year.
   (JJ)   Undertakers. Every dealer in undertakers’ supplies, whether
independently or in connection with another business, shall pay as a license
the sum of $20 per year.
(Prior Code, § 605.030) (Ord. 5.070#2, passed 6-2-1941; Ord. 5.070#2 (7, 15,
21, 25, 3135), passed 12-28-1974; C605, S605.030: Minutes 4-1-2013) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be assignable
or transferable but shall apply only to the person to whom the same is issued.
In the event any licensee, as provided for herein, shall move his or her place
of business from one location to another location within the city, said
licensee shall submit a statement of the fact of such change to the City Clerk
who may transfer such license as to location only. In no event, however, shall
such license be transferred from one person to another or from the kind of
business or occupation originally licensed to another type of business or
occupation.
(Prior Code, § 605.040) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of the licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be from January 1 of one year to December 31 of the succeeding year. In
the event any licensee hereunder shall commence business on or after June 30,
the City Clerk shall issue such license at the rate of one-half of the license
fee for such six month period of July 1 to December 31, or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 605.050)
§ 110.07 DUTY OF CITY CLERK.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to issue all such licenses and
to collect such license fees and the Clerk shall, before the last day of every
month, deposit the license fees collected during said month with the City
Treasurer and obtain from him or her a receipt therefor and said City Clerk
shall, at every regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen, make a report showing
all licenses issued and the amount collected therefor and deposit of said
monies.
   (B)   For every license issued by the City Clerk, he or she shall receive a
sum of $1 to be paid by the person applying for the license and shall be
collected from the applicant at the time of issuing license and the fee is to
go in the General Revenue Fund.
(Prior Code, § 605.055)
§ 110.08 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for renewal of a license provided for herein shall be filed
no later than June 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 605.060)
§ 110.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued by the city under the provisions of this chapter shall
be carefully preserved and shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the
place of business authorized to be conducted by said license. If there is no
place of business, said license shall be carried on the licensee’s person.
(Prior Code, § 605.070) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 EXCEPTED BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall, under no circumstances, be construed
to require a license or a license fee for any business, occupation, pursuit, or
profession for which the city may be prohibited by law from licensing or
requiring a fee for said license.
(Prior Code, § 605.080)
§ 110.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS.
   (A)   Any license issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked by the Board of Aldermen for any of the following
reasons, as well as for any other reasons specified in this chapter:
      (1)   Any failure to comply with or any violation of any provisions of
this chapter, or any other ordinance of the city regulating the business,
occupation, or activity licensed, or the statutes of the state by any licensee;
      (2)   Violation of the terms and conditions upon which the license was
issued;
      (3)   Failure of the licensee to pay any tax or obligation due to the
city;
      (4)   Any misrepresentation or false statement in the application for a
license required herein; and
      (5)   Failure to display the license required herein.
   (B)   Revocation of any license shall be in addition to any other penalty or
penalties which may be imposed pursuant to these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 605.090)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PROCEDURE.
   In any case in which a complaint has been made to the Board of Aldermen, or
in which the Board of Aldermen have on their own determined that cause may
exist for the revocation of a license under the provisions of this chapter, the
following procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall set a date for a hearing to consider the
question of revocation.
   (B)   At least ten days prior to said hearing, written notice shall be
mailed to the licensee by registered mail, return receipt requested, to his or
her last known address as shown in the records of the City Clerk advising the
licensee of the time, date, and place of hearing and of the reason for
considering the revocation of his or her license.
   (C)   During the pendency of this hearing before the Board of Aldermen, the
licensee shall be permitted to continue the operation of his or her business.
   (D)   At the hearing set by the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Aldermen
shall hear all relevant and material evidence justifying the retention of the
license.
   (E)   The licensee may be present in person and/or by his or her attorney
and may present evidence.
   (F)   After hearing the evidence presented, the Board of Aldermen shall vote
on the issue of whether the subject license shall be revoked.
   (G)   The affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Aldermen shall be
necessary to revoke any license.
(Prior Code, § 605.100)
TAXES
§ 110.25 ELECTRIC SERVICE; TAX IMPOSED.
   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of manufacturing,
transmitting, distributing, and selling electricity for lighting, heating, and
power and for any and all other purposes shall pay to the city as a license or
occupational tax 4.43% of the gross revenue derived from the sale and
distribution of such electrical energy to residential and commercial customers
within the city limits, which sum shall be paid by such concerns to the city
semi-annually.
(Prior Code, § 620.010) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 ELECTRIC SERVICE; IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES.
   The tax required to be paid by this chapter shall be in lieu of any other
occupation or franchise tax required of any person, firm, or corporation
engaged in the business described in §
110.25 hereof and nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to exempt
any such person, firm, or corporation from the payment to the city of the tax
which the city may levy upon the real, personal property belonging to such
person, firm, or corporation, nor the tax required of merchants or
manufacturers for the sale of anything other than electric service, nor shall
the tax herein required exempt any such person, firm, or corporation from the
payment of any other tax which may be lawfully required other than an
occupational or franchise tax on the business described in §
110.25.
(Prior Code, § 620.020)
§ 110.27 ELECTRIC SERVICE; MAINTENANCE OF IMPOSED TAX.
   The license or occupational tax on the gross revenue derived from the sale
and distribution of electrical energy to residential and commercial customers
within the city limits, provided in §
110.25, be maintained without reduction at its present rate of 4.43%.
(Prior Code, § 620.030)
§ 110.28 NATURAL GAS; MAINTENANCE OF IMPOSED TAX.
   The license or occupational tax on the gross revenue derived from the sale
and distribution of natural gas to residential and commercial customers within
the city limits, provided in Ordinance Number G-85, be maintained without
reduction of its present rate of 5%.
(Prior Code, § 620.040)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation or co-partnership who shall violate
any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.12, or who shall exercise or attempt to exercise any of the occupations,
trades, or avocations, or who shall carry on, or engage in, or attempt to carry
on or engage in, any of the businesses for which a license is required in this
chapter in the city, without first paying the tax herein levied and obtaining a
license therefor shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an ordinance
violation and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 605.110)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR OPERATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale by the drink defined
   
111.03   License required; classes of licenses
   
111.04   License regulations
   
111.05   Schedule of license fees
   
111.06   Application for license and renewal
   
111.07   Minors
   
111.08   Miscellaneous offenses
   
111.09   Administration of law; license suspension
   
111.10   Hearings upon suspension or revocation of licenses
   
111.11   Warning sign displayed; liquor licenses
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT PLACE. Any establishment whose business building contains a square
footage of at least 6,000 square feet, and where games of skill commonly known
as billiards, volleyball, indoor golf, bowling, or soccer are usually played or
has a dance floor of at least 2,500 square feet or any outdoor golf course with
a minimum of nine holes, and which has annual gross receipts of at least
$100,000 of which at least $50,000 of such gross receipts is in non-alcoholic
sales.
   CLOSED PLACE. A place where all doors are locked and where no patrons are in
the place or about the premises.
   COMMON EATING AND DRINKING AREA. An area or areas within a building or group
of buildings designated for the eating of food and drinking of liquor sold at
retail by establishments which do not provide areas within their premises for
the consumption of food and liquor, where the costs of maintaining such area or
areas are shared by the payment of common area maintenance charges, as provided
in the respective leases permitting the use of such areas or otherwise, and
where the annual gross income from the sale of prepared meals or food consumed
in such COMMON EATING AND DRINKING AREA is, or is projected to be, at least
$275,000.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Alcohol for beverage purposes, including alcoholic,
spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquors, or combination of
liquors, a part of which is spirituous, vinous, or fermented, and all
preparations or mixtures for beverage purposes containing in excess of 0.5% by
volume, except for non-intoxicating beer as defined herein. All beverages
having an alcoholic content of less than 0.5% by volume shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
   LIGHT WINES. An intoxicating liquor consisting of wine containing not in
excess of 14% of alcohol by weight made exclusively from grapes, berries, and
other fruits and vegetables.
   MALT LIQUOR. An intoxicating liquor containing alcohol in excess of 3.2% by
weight and not in excess of 5% by weight manufactured from pure hops or pure
extract of hops, or pure barley malt, or wholesome grains or cereals, and
wholesome yeast, and pure water.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. Any beer manufactured from pure hops or pure extract
of hops, and pure barley malt, or other wholesome grains or cereals, and
wholesome yeast, and pure water, and free from all harmful substances,
preservatives, and adulterants, and having an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not exceeding 3.2% by weight.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any package sealed or otherwise closed by the manufacturer
so as to consist of a self-contained unit, and consisting of one or more
bottles or other containers of intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer,
where the package and/or container(s) describes the contents thereof as
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer. ORIGINAL PACKAGE shall also be
construed and held to refer to any package containing three or more standard
bottles of beer.
   PERSON. An individual, association, firm, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, receiver, trustee, conservator, or any other officer
appointed by any state or federal court.
   RESORT. Any establishment having at least 30 rooms for the overnight
accommodation of transient guests having a restaurant or similar facility on
the premises at least 60% of the gross income of which is derived from the sale
of prepared meals or food, or means a restaurant provided with special space
and accommodations where, in consideration of payment, food, without lodging,
is habitually furnished to travelers and customers, and which restaurant
establishment’s annual gross receipts immediately preceding its application for
a license shall not have been less than $75,000 per year with at least $50,000
of such gross receipts from non-alcoholic sales, or means a seasonal resort
restaurant with food sales, as determined in RSMo. § 311.095(2). Any facility
which is owned and operated as a part of the RESORT may be used to sell
intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises of such
facility and, for the purpose of meeting the annual gross food receipts
requirements of this definition, if any facility which is a part of the resort
meets such requirement, such requirement shall be deemed met for any other
facility which is a part of the RESORT.
   RESTAURANT BAR. Any establishment having a restaurant or similar facility on
the premises at least 50% of the gross income of which is derived from the sale
of prepared meals or food consumed on such premises or which has an annual
gross income of at least $200,000 from the sale of prepared meals or food
consumed on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 600.010)
§ 111.02 SALE BY THE DRINK DEFINED.
   The sale of any intoxicating liquor except malt liquor in the original
package, in any quantity less than 50 milliliters, shall be deemed “sale by the
drink” and may be made only by a holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license
and, when so made, the container in every case shall be emptied and the
contents thereof served as other intoxicating liquors sold by the drink are
served.
(Prior Code, § 600.015)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer for sale intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer in the city without a currently valid liquor
license issued by the city. A separate liquor license shall be required for
each of the categories and subcategories of liquor sales in which the licensee
desires to engage as set forth herein.
   (B)   General licenses. Any person possessing the qualifications and meeting
the requirements of this chapter may apply for the following licenses to sell
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer:
      (1)   Package liquor - malt liquor only. Sales of malt liquor at retail
in the original package not for consumption on the premises where sold;
      (2)   Package liquor - non-intoxicating beer. Sales of non-intoxicating
beer at retail in the original package not for consumption on the premises
where sold;
      (3)   Package liquor - all kinds. Sales of all kinds of intoxicating
liquors in the original package at retail not for consumption on the premises
where sold, including sales as set forth in divisions (B)(1) and (2) above;
      (4)   Liquor by the drink - malt liquor/light wine only. Sales of malt
liquor and light wines at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
where sold, including sales as set forth in divisions (B)(1) above and (B)(5)
below;
      (5)   Liquor by the drink - non-intoxicating beer. Sales of non-
intoxicating beer at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises where
sold, including sales as set forth in division (B)(2) above;
      (6)   Liquor by the drink; all kinds. Sales of intoxicating liquor of all
kinds at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold,
including package sales as set forth in division (B)(3) above; and
      (7)   Common eating and drinking areas. Sales of intoxicating liquor of
all kinds by the drink at retail not for consumption on the premises where sold
but for consumption in a common eating or drinking area.
   (C)   Sunday sales. Any person who is licensed under the provisions of this
chapter or who otherwise possesses the qualifications and meets the
requirements of this chapter may apply for the following licenses to sell
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer on Sundays between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. and midnight.
      (1)   Package liquor; all kinds. Sales of liquor of all kinds in the
original package at retail not for consumption on the premises where sold.
      (2)   Liquor by the drink; restaurant bar. Sales of liquor of all kinds
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any restaurant bar.
      (3)   Liquor by the drink - amusement place. Sales of liquor of all kinds
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any amusement place.
      (4)   Liquor by the drink - place of entertainment. Sales of liquor of
all kinds by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any place
of entertainment.
      (5)   Liquor by the drink - common eating and drinking area. Sales of
liquor of all kinds by the drink at retail not for consumption on the premises
where sold but for consumption in a common eating or drinking area.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   Temporary permit for sale by drink. Any person who possesses the
qualifications, meets the requirements, and complies with the provisions of §
111.04(C) may apply for a special permit to sell intoxicating liquor for
consumption on premises where sold.
      (2)   Tasting permit. Any person who is licensed to sell intoxicating
liquor in the original package at retail, under divisions (B)(3) and (C) above,
may apply for a special permit to conduct wine, malt beverage, and distilled
spirit tastings on the licensed premises; however, nothing in this section
shall be construed to permit the licensee to sell wine, malt beverages, or
distilled spirits for on-premises consumption.
(Prior Code, § 600.020) (Ord. 4, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. 90, passed 10-3-2016)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Package sales, limitations. No license shall be issued for the sale of
intoxicating liquor in the original package, not to be consumed upon the
premises where sold, except to a person engaged in, and to be used in
connection with, the operation of one or more of the following businesses: a
drug store, a cigar and tobacco store, a grocery store, a general merchandise
store, a confectionery or delicatessen store, nor to any such person who does
not have and keep in his or her store a stock of goods having a value according
to invoices of at least $1,000, exclusive of fixtures and intoxicating liquors.
Under such license, no intoxicating liquor shall be consumed on the premises
where sold nor shall any original package be opened on the premises of the
vendor except as otherwise provided in this chapter or law.
   (B)   Newly-opened restaurant bars or amusement places.
      (1)   Any new restaurant bar having been in operation for less than 90
days may be issued a temporary license to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink
at retail for consumption on the premises between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
midnight on Sunday for a period not to exceed 90 days if the restaurant bar can
show a projection of annual business from prepared meals or food consumed on
the premises of at least 50% of the total gross income of the restaurant bar
for the year or can show a projection of annual business from prepared meals or
food consumed on the premises which would exceed not less than $200,000. The
license fee shall be prorated for the period of the temporary license based on
the cost of the annual license for the establishment.
      (2)   Any new amusement place having been in operation for less than 90
days may be issued a temporary license to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink
at retail for consumption on the premises between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
midnight on Sunday for a period not to exceed 90 days if the amusement place
can show a projection of gross receipts of at least $100,000 of which at least
$50,000 of such gross receipts are in non-alcoholic sales for the first year of
operation. The license fee shall be prorated for the period of the temporary
license based on the cost of the annual license for the establishment.
   (C)   Temporary permit for sale by drink - certain organizations.
      (1)   The City Clerk may issue a permit for the sale of intoxicating
liquor and non-intoxicating beer for consumption on premises where sold to any
church, school, civic, service, fraternal, veteran, political, or charitable
club or organization for sale at a picnic, bazaar, fair, or similar gathering.
The permit shall be issued only for the day or days named therein and it shall
not authorize the sale of intoxicating liquor for more than seven days by any
such club or organization.
      (2)   If the event will be held on a Sunday, the permit shall authorize
the sale of intoxicating liquor and non-intoxicating beer on that day beginning
at 11:00 a.m.
      (3)   At the same time that an applicant applies for a permit under the
provisions of this division (C)(3), the applicant shall notify the Director of
Revenue of the holding of the event by certified mail and by such notification
shall accept responsibility for the collection and payment of any applicable
sales tax.
      (4)   No provision of law or rule or regulation of the city shall be
interpreted as preventing any wholesaler or distributor from providing
customary storage, cooling, or dispensing equipment for use by the permit
holder at such picnic, bazaar, fair, or similar gathering.
   (D)   Operating hours, days.
      (1)   No licensee or any employee of such licensee shall sell, give away,
or otherwise dispose of, or allow the same to be done, on or about the
premises, any intoxicating liquor in any quantity between the hours of 1:30
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 1:30 a.m. on Sunday and
6:00 a.m. on Monday, except as otherwise authorized and licensed for Sunday
sales. Any person licensed to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink shall keep
a closed place during the aforementioned prohibited times.
      (2)   When January 1, March 17, July 4, or December 31 falls on Sunday,
and on the Sundays prior to Memorial Day and Labor Day, and on the Sunday on
which the national championship game of the National Football League is played,
commonly known as “Super Bowl Sunday”, any person having a license to sell
intoxicating liquor by the drink may be open for business and sell intoxicating
liquor by the drink under the provisions of his or her license on that day from
the time and until the time which would be lawful on another day of the week,
notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter to the contrary.
   (E)   General license regulations.
      (1)   Each license issued hereunder shall be conspicuously posted on the
premises for which the license has been issued.
      (2)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business.
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall particularly
describe the premises at which intoxicating liquor may be sold thereunder, and
such license shall not be deemed to authorize or permit the sale of
intoxicating liquor at any place other than that described therein.
      (3)   (a)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable or
assignable except as herein provided. In the event of the death of the
licensee, the widow or widower or the next of kin of such deceased licensee,
who shall meet the other requirements of this chapter, may make application and
the Clerk may transfer such license to permit the operation of the business of
the deceased for the remainder of the period for which a license fee has been
paid by the deceased.
         (b)   Whenever one or more members of a partnership withdraws from the
partnership, the Clerk, upon being requested, shall permit the remaining
partner, or partners, originally licensed, to continue to operate for the
remainder of the period for which the license fee has been paid without
obtaining a new license.
      (4)   In the event any licensee desires to change the location of his or
her place of business in the city, it shall be necessary for him or her to file
an application in the same manner as herein provided for an original
application, except that no additional fee shall be charged and the amended
license, describing the new location, shall be issued immediately upon the
approval of the application by the Board. Any change of location of the
enterprise prior to issuance of such an amended license shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   (F)   Druggists may sell and physicians prescribe liquor. Any druggist may
have in his or her possession intoxicating liquor purchased by him or her from
a licensed vendor under a license pursuant to state law, or intoxicating liquor
lawfully acquired at the place of acquisition and legally transported into this
state, and lawfully inspected, gauged, and labeled as provided by state law;
such intoxicating liquor to be used in connection with the business of a
druggist in compounding medicines or as a solvent or preservant, provided that
nothing in this chapter shall prevent a regularly licensed druggist, after he
or she procures a license therefor, from selling intoxicating liquor in the
original package, but not to be drunk or the packages opened on the premises
where sold; and provided further, that nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as limiting the right of a physician to prescribe intoxicating liquor
in accordance with his or her professional judgment for any patient at any time
or prevent a druggist from selling intoxicating liquor to a person on
prescription from a regularly licensed physician as above provided.
(Prior Code, § 600.030) (Ord. 4, passed 11-3-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The following categories and subcategories of licenses shall be issued
upon compliance with the provisions of this chapter and payment of the license
fee indicated:
      (1)   General licenses.
Malt liquor - original package                                           $22.50
Non-intoxicating beer - original package                                 $22.50
Intoxicating liquor (all kinds) - original package                       $150
Malt liquor and light wines - by drink                                   $52
Non-intoxicating beer - by drink                                         $37
Intoxicating liquor (all kinds) - by drink                               $450
Common eating and drinking places                                        $450
Malt liquor and non-intoxicating beer sale at retail by drink for
consumption on the premises where sold and shall also permit the
licensee to sell malt liquor and non-intoxicating beer at retail by      $75
drink for consumption on the premises where sold between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. and midnight on Sunday
 
      (2)   Sunday sales (Additional fees).
 
Intoxicating liquor - original package         $300
Restaurant bars                                $300
Amusement places                               $300
Common eating and drinking places              $300
Liquor by the drink - charitable organizations $300
 
      (3)   Permits.
 
Temporary permit - by the drink for certain organizations (7 days max.) $37.50
Church picnic
Tasting permit                                                          $37.50
 
   (B)   Of the license fee to be paid for any such license, the applicant
shall pay as many twelfths as there are months (part of a month counted as a
month) remaining from the date of the license to the next succeeding July 1.
(Prior Code, § 600.040) (Ord. 9, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 111.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Filing of an application. Each application for an original or renewal
license shall be filed with the City Clerk on a form to be provided by the
city, signed, and sworn to by the applicant. Each application shall be
accompanied by a proper remittance reflecting the appropriate license fee made
payable to the city.
   (B)   Qualifications. Neither the applicant nor any officer, director, or
shareholder of a corporate applicant shall have been convicted of a felony or
of any distribution, sale, or possession of any controlled substances or
dangerous drugs. The applicant shall present with the application a bona fide
sale contract or option duly executed, which may be subject to the applicant
obtaining a liquor license, or a bona fide lease duly executed by the lessor,
or an option for a lease duly executed, subject to the applicant obtaining a
liquor license, covering the property for which a liquor license is requested.
If the applicant is a corporation, the petition shall set forth all of the
above information with respect to the managing officer or officers, identifying
such officer or officers. The application shall further state the full name of
the corporation, its date of incorporation, its registered agent and registered
address, the names and addresses of all shareholders of the corporation, and
whether said corporation operates any other business or controls or is
controlled by any other corporation or business and, if so, the application
shall further state the name of such controlled or controlling corporation or
business, its registered agent and registered address, and the location of all
businesses operated by it and the name and address of any such businesses with
a liquor license, whether within or without the city; and the application shall
also state if such controlling corporation or any controlled corporation is
doing business under a fictitious name, and the address where said business is
located. The Board of Aldermen also may request such additional information of
an applicant as it may deem necessary for it to make a determination with
respect to the issuance of a liquor license.
   (C)   Hearing on application. Upon the filing of the application with the
Clerk, the Clerk shall fix a date for a hearing before the Board not more than
31 days from the date of filing of the application and shall give the applicant
written notice of the date of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with §
111.10.
      (1)   The Board shall consider the location of the proposed business for
which a license is sought with respect to its proximity to a school, a church,
a public park, or playground and to other places of the character for which a
license is sought and shall have authority to refuse to issue a license when in
their judgment the issuance thereof would not be in the best interests of the
locality in which the applicant applies for a location of such place. In no
event shall the Board approve the issuance of a license for the sale of liquor
within 300 feet of any school, church, or other building regularly used as a
place of worship unless the applicant for the license shall first obtain the
consent in writing of the board of directors of the school, or the consent, in
writing, of the majority of the managing board of the church or place of
worship; except that when a school, church, or place of worship shall
thereafter be established within 300 feet of any place of business licensed to
sell intoxicating liquor, renewal of the license shall not be denied for lack
of consent in writing as herein provided.
      (2)   The Board shall approve the application if after the hearing it
finds that:
         (a)   Issuance of the requested license would be in the best interests
of the locality of the proposed business;
         (b)   The applicant is a person of good moral character, a native born
or naturalized citizen of the United States, a registered voter, and a
taxpaying citizen of the city;
         (c)   No license theretofor issued to such applicant to sell
intoxicating liquors has been revoked within two years of the date of the
application;
         (d)   The applicant has not been convicted since the ratification of
the Twenty-First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of the
violation of any law applicable to the sale of intoxicating liquor, or that
such applicant has not employed in his or her business any person whose license
has been revoked or who has been convicted of violating the provisions of such
law since the date aforesaid; and
         (e)   The applicant plans and proposes to conduct a retail liquor
business in compliance with the laws of the state, the ordinances of the city,
and the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon approval of any application for a license, the Clerk shall grant
the applicant a license to conduct business in the city for a term to expire
with the June 30 next succeeding the date of such license, unless such license
be revoked or suspended for cause before the expiration of such time.
   (E)   Applications for renewal of licenses must be filed on or before the
May 1 of each calendar year. Such renewal application shall be reviewed by the
Board at its next meeting. Upon approval of the majority of the Board and
payment of the license fee provided herein, the Clerk shall renew the license.
In the event that any person residing or conducting businesses within 200 feet
of the applicant’s place of business shall file a written protest against the
renewal of such license, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the application
for license renewal as provided in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 600.050)
§ 111.07 MINORS.
   (A)   When persons eighteen years of age or older may sell or handle liquor
or beer.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person under the
age of 21 years shall sell or assist in the sale or dispensing of intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer.
      (2)   In any place of business licensed in accordance with this chapter,
persons at least 18 years of age may stock, arrange displays, operate the cash
register or scanner connected to a cash register, accept payment for, and sack
for carry-out intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer. Delivery of
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer away from the licensed business
premises cannot be performed by anyone under the age of 21 years. Any licensee
who employs any person under the age of 21 years, as authorized by this
division (A), shall, when at least 50% of the licensee’s gross sales does not
consist of non-alcoholic sales, have an employee 21 years of age or older on
the licensed premises during all hours of operation.
      (3)   Persons 18 years of age or older may, when acting in the capacity
of a waiter or waitress, accept payment for or serve intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer in places of business which sell food for consumption on
the premises if at least 50% of all sales in those places consists of food,
provided that nothing in this section shall authorize persons under 21 years of
age to mix or serve across the bar intoxicating beverages or non-intoxicating
beer.
   (B)   Sales to minor; exceptions. No licensee, his or her employee, or any
other person shall procure for, sell, vend, give away, or otherwise supply any
intoxicating liquor in any quantity whatsoever to any person under the age of
21 years, except that this section shall not apply to the parent or guardian of
the minor nor to the supplying of intoxicating liquor to a person under the age
of 21 years for medical purposes only, or to the administering of such
intoxicating liquor to such person by a duly licensed physician. No person
shall be denied a license or renewal of a license issued under this chapter
solely due to a conviction for unlawful sale or supply to a minor while serving
in the capacity as an employee of a licensed establishment.
   (C)   Misrepresentation of age by a minor to obtain liquor; use of altered
driver’s license, passport, or I.D. cards.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall represent, for the
purpose of purchasing, asking for, or in any way receiving any intoxicating
liquor, that he or she has attained the age of 21 years, except in cases
authorized by law.
      (2)   In addition to division (C)(1) above, no person under the age of 21
years shall use a reproduced, modified, or altered chauffeur’s license, motor
vehicle operator’s license, identification card issued by any uniformed service
of the United States, passport, or identification card established in RSMo. §
302,181, for the purpose of purchasing, asking for, or in any way receiving any
intoxicating liquor.
   (D)   Minors in possession of intoxicating liquor; non-intoxicating beer.
Any person under the age of 21 years who purchases or attempts to purchase, or
has in his or her possession, any intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer,
as defined in §
111.01, is in violation of this section. For purposes of prosecution under this
section, a manufacturer-sealed container describing that there is intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer therein need not be opened or the contents
therein tested to verity that there is intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer in such container. The alleged violator may allege that there was no
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer in such container, but the burden
of proof of such allegation is on such person, as it shall be presumed that
such a sealed container describing that there is intoxicating liquor or any
non-intoxicating beer therein contains intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer.
(Prior Code, § 600.060)
§ 111.08 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   Unlawful for licensed retailer to purchase from other than licensed
wholesaler. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase any intoxicating
liquor except from, by, or through a duly licensed wholesale liquor dealer in
this state. It shall be unlawful for such retail liquor dealer to sell or offer
for sale any intoxicating liquor purchased in violation of the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Mixing liquor with drugs prohibited. No licensee, or any other person,
shall, for any purpose whatsoever, mix or permit or cause to be mixed with any
intoxicating liquor kept for sale, sold, or supplied by him or her as a
beverage any drug or form of methyl alcohol or impure form of alcohol.
   (C)   Unlawful to sell unlabeled liquor; penalty. It shall be unlawful for
any person to sell any intoxicating liquor which has not been inspected and
labeled according to the provisions of the Liquor Control Law of the state,
being RSMo. Chapter 311, and any such person upon conviction shall have his or
her license revoked and shall be ineligible to receive any subsequent liquor
license for a period of two years thereafter.
   (D)   Only those liquors authorized by license to be kept on premises. It
shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor
at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises to keep in or upon the
premises described in such license any intoxicating liquor other than the kind
of liquor expressly authorized to be sold by such licensee.
   (E)   Persons apparently intoxicated not to be provided with intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his
or her employee or agent, to sell or supply intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer, or permit such to be sold or supplied, to a habitual
drunkard or to any person who is under or apparently under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
   (F)   Drinking in public places prohibited.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall mean
any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or other public way
of the city, or any parking lot.
      (2)   No person shall drink or ingest any intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer in or on any public place.
      (3)   No person shall possess, or have under his or her control, any
unsealed glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while in or upon any public place.
      (4)   (a)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
unsealed glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while within or on any motor
vehicle while the same is being operated upon, or parked or standing in or
upon, any public place.
         (b)   Any person operating a motor vehicle shall be deemed to be in
possession of an open container contained within the motor vehicle he or she
has control of whether or not he or she has actual physical possession of the
open container.
   (G)   Live entertainment on premises prohibited. No person licensed for the
sale of intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises shall
permit or allow any live entertainment on the premises. The playing and singing
of music solely shall not be considered entertainment under this section.
(Prior Code, § 600.070) Penalty, see §
111.08
§ 111.09 ADMINISTRATION OF LAW; LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation of license; when; manner. The Board may
suspend or revoke the license of any person for cause shown. In such cases, the
City Clerk shall schedule a hearing before the Board not less than ten days
prior to the effective date of revocation or suspension, and, prior to the
hearing, the Clerk shall give not less than ten days’ written notice specifying
grounds for the suspension or revocation thereof to the licensee of the grounds
upon which the license is sought to be revoked or suspended and the time, date,
and place of the hearing. Notice may be accomplished by personal delivery,
United States Postal Service, or by posting on the licensed premises. The
hearing shall be conducted in accordance with §
111.10.
   (B)   Grounds for suspension or revocation. A license may be suspended or
revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violating any of the provisions of either this chapter, RSMo.
Chapters 311, or any ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Failing to obtain or keep a license from the state’s Supervisor of
Liquor Control;
      (3)   Making a false affidavit in an application for a license under this
chapter;
      (4)   Failing to keep an orderly place or house;
      (5)   Selling, offering for sale, possessing, or knowingly permitting the
consumption on the licensed premises of any kind of intoxicating liquors, the
sale, possession, or consumption of which is not authorized under the license;
      (6)   Selling, offering for sale, possessing, or knowingly permitting the
consumption of any intoxicating liquor which has not been inspected and labeled
according to the laws of the state; or
      (7)   Selling, giving, or otherwise supplying intoxicating liquor to:
         (a)   Any person under the age of 21 years;
         (b)   Any person during unauthorized hours on the licensed premises;
         (c)   A habitual drunkard or to any person who is under or apparently
under the influence of intoxicating liquor; or
         (d)   Any person on the licensed premises during a term of suspension
as ordered by the Board.
   (C)   Automatic revocation/suspension. A license shall be revoked
automatically if the licensee’s state liquor license is revoked or if the
licensee is convicted in any court of any violation of RSMo. Chapter 311 or
Chapter 312, or of any felony violation of RSMo. Chapter 195 in the course of
business. A license shall be suspended automatically if the licensee’s state
liquor license is suspended, and the suspension shall be for a term not less
than that imposed by the state.
   (D)   Effect of suspension. No person whose license shall have been
suspended by order of the Board shall sell or give away any intoxicating liquor
or non-intoxicating beer during the time such suspension is in effect. Any
licensee desiring to keep premises open for the sale of food or merchandise
during the period of suspension shall display the Board’s order of suspension
in a conspicuous place on the premises so that all persons visiting the
premises may readily see the same.
(Prior Code, § 600.080) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 HEARINGS UPON SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Testimony; evidence. Hearings before the Board shall be in the nature
of informal investigations. Testimony of witnesses and other evidence pertinent
to the inquiry may be taken in such hearings, and all proceedings in such
hearings shall be recorded. Any person residing or conducting a business within
200 feet of the proposed establishment shall have the right to produce
witnesses and testimony.
   (B)   Witnesses; how summoned. Subpoenas may be issued by the Board for any
person whose testimony is desired at any hearing. Such subpoenas may be served
and returns thereon made by any agent and in the same manner as provided by law
for the service of subpoenas in civil suits in the Circuit Courts of this
state. The Board also may issue subpoenas duces tecum requiring the production
of documents or other items pertaining to the subject of the inquiry.
   (C)   Witnesses to be sworn. Before any witness shall testify in any such
hearing, he or she shall be sworn by the City Clerk to tell the truth and
nothing but the truth.
   (D)   Decision; suspension or revocation. If the evidence supports a finding
that the license should be revoked or suspended pursuant to §
111.09, the Board shall issue a written order which shall include specific
findings of fact setting forth the grounds for the action taken. If the
evidence fails to support a finding that the license should be revoked or
suspended, then no such order shall be issued.
   (E)   Appeal. Any applicant or licensee aggrieved by a decision of the Board
may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in RSMo. Chapter
536, provided such appeal is filed within ten days of the date of the Board’s
decision. The Board may delay the implementation of its order pending appeal.
(Prior Code, § 600.090)
§ 111.11 WARNING SIGN DISPLAYED; LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person who is licensed to sell or serve alcoholic beverages at any
establishment shall place on the premises of such establishment a warning sign,
as described in this section. Such sign shall be at least 11 inches by 14
inches and shall read “WARNING: Drinking alcoholic beverages during pregnancy
may cause birth defects”. The licensee shall display such sign in a conspicuous
place on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Any employee of the Supervisor of Liquor Control may report a
violation of this section to the Supervisor, and the Supervisor shall issue a
warning to the licensee of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 600.100)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 600.110)
CHAPTER 112: CIGARETTE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; registration fee; occupation tax
   
112.03   Prohibited acts
   
112.04   Invoices and records
   
112.05   Seizure of cigarettes
   
112.06   Oaths
   
112.07   Occupation tax and invoices
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE. Any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco
irrespective of size or shape and whether or not such tobacco is flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, the wrapper or cover of which
is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.
   PACKAGE. The individual package, box, or other container in or from which
retail sales of cigarettes are normally made or intended to be made.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, society, association, joint stock
company, corporation, estate, receiver, trustee, assignee, referee, or any
other person acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, whether
appointed by a court or otherwise, and any combination of individuals.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, other than a wholesale dealer, jobber, or
manufacturer, engaged in the business of selling cigarettes.
   SALE. Any transfer of title or profession or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a
consideration or any agreement therefor.
   WHOLESALE DEALER. Any person who sells cigarettes to retail dealers or other
persons for the purpose of resale only.
(Prior Code, § 615.010)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; REGISTRATION FEE; OCCUPATION TAX.
   Every person engaged in the retail business of selling cigarettes or
offering or displaying the same for sale within the city shall procure a
license therefor for each place of business that he or she desires to have for
the sale of cigarettes in the city and, at the time such license is issued,
shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $1 as a registration fee for each such
place of business and, in addition thereto, each such person engaged in said
business shall pay an occupation tax at the rate of $0.50 per thousand for each
and all cigarettes so sold or offered or displayed for sale. The intent and
meaning of this chapter is that the same shall levy an occupation tax based
upon and pursuant to the method provided for by the revised statutes of the
state and pursuant to the powers therein granted and the powers further granted
under the statutes of the state to cities of the Fourth Class. Said tax shall
be paid and the stamps hereinafter provided for shall be affixed by the person
selling such cigarettes or displaying or offering the same for sale after the
same shall have come to rest in this city and before being displayed or offered
for sale by any retail dealer in this city.
(Prior Code, § 615.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale or display for sale at retail any
cigarettes without first having affixed to the package thereof the stamp or
stamps required to be affixed thereto under the provisions of this chapter; nor
shall any person falsely and fraudulently make, forge, alter, or counterfeit
any stamp or stamps prescribed by the Board of Aldermen under the provisions of
this chapter or cause or procure to be falsely or fraudulently made, forged,
altered, or counterfeited any such stamp or stamps or knowingly and willfully
utter, publish, pass, or tender as true any false, altered, forged, or
counterfeited stamp or stamps.
(Prior Code, § 615.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 INVOICES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enabling the City Clerk to properly enforce the
term of this chapter as to such retail dealers, the following provisions are
hereby enacted. At the time of delivering cigarettes to any retail dealer, each
wholesale dealer in the city shall make a true duplicate invoice showing the
date of delivery, the amount and value of each shipment of cigarettes
delivered, and the name of the retail dealer to whom delivery is made and shall
retain the same for a period of three years subject to the use and inspection
of the City Clerk. Each wholesale and retail dealer in the city shall procure
and retain invoices showing the amount, and value of each shipment of
cigarettes received by him or her, the date thereof, and the name of the
shipper, and shall retain the same for a period of three years subject to the
use and inspection of the City Clerk. The City Clerk, by regulation, may
provide that, whenever cigarettes are shipped into the city, the railroad
company, express company, trucking company, or other public carrier
transporting any shipment thereof shall file with the City Clerk a copy of the
freight bill within ten days after the delivery in the city of each shipment.
All dealers within the city shall maintain and keep for a period of three years
such other records of cigarettes received, sold, or delivered within the city
as may be required by the City Clerk. The City Clerk or his or her duly
authorized representatives are hereby authorized to examine the books, papers,
invoices, and other records; stock of cigarettes in and upon any premises where
the same are placed, stored, and sold; and equipment of any such wholesale or
retail dealer pertaining to the sale and delivery of cigarettes taxable under
this chapter. To verify the accuracy of the occupation tax imposed and assessed
by this chapter, each such person is hereby directed and required to give to
the City Clerk or his or her duly authorized representatives the means,
facilities, and opportunity for such examination as are herein provided for and
required.
   (B)   In addition to the powers herein granted to the City Clerk, he or she
is hereby authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce
rules and regulations relating to:
      (1)   The method and the means to be used in cancellation of stamps, if
any;
      (2)   The denomination and sale of stamps; and
      (3)   The delegation of this power to a deputy or other employee or
employees of his or her office or with the consent of the Board of Aldermen to
delegate his or her powers to the City Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 615.040)
§ 112.05 SEIZURE OF CIGARETTES.
   (A)   Whenever the City Clerk or any of his or her duly authorized
representatives shall discover any cigarettes subject to tax provided by this
chapter and upon which said occupation tax has not been paid or the stamps
affixed as herein required, the City Clerk or such representatives are hereby
authorized and empowered forthwith to seize and take possession of such
cigarettes together with any vending machine or receptacle in which they are
held for sale and the same shall thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the
city.
   (B)   The City Clerk may, within a reasonable time thereafter by a public
notice at least five days before the day of sale, sell such forfeited
cigarettes at the place designated by him or her and from the proceeds of such
sale shall collect the tax due thereon together with a penalty of 50% thereof
and the costs incurred in such proceedings.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall pay the balance, if any, to the person in whose
possession such forfeited cigarettes were found, provided however, that such
seizure and sale shall not be deemed to relieve any person from fine or
imprisonment provided for violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 615.050)
§ 112.06 OATHS.
   The City Clerk or his or her employees or agents duly designated and
authorized by him or her shall have power to administer oaths and take
affidavits in relation to any matter or proceedings in the exercise of their
powers and duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 615.060)
§ 112.07 OCCUPATION TAX AND INVOICES.
   (A)   Reconfirming the increase, as passed by the Council at a special
meeting thereof held on January 10, 1947, in the rate of the occupation tax on
each pack of cigarettes from $0.01 per pack to $0.02 per pack by an amendment
to an ordinance originally passed therefore by the Council on January 5,1947.
   (B)   In lieu of affixing cigarette stamps to each individual package of
cigarettes, the wholesaler may submit a true duplicate invoice showing the date
of delivery, the amount, and value of each shipment of cigarettes delivered;
the name and address of the retail dealer to whom delivery was made; and the
amount of taxes owned per delivery. Said invoices must be submitted on a
monthly basis. The total amount of taxes owed to the city shall be the
liability of the wholesaler and shall be paid by the wholesaler to the city no
later than the end of the following calendar month. Late payments shall be
assessed a late fee penalty of 5% of the amount of taxes due compounded monthly
on the unpaid balance. Amounts remaining unpaid by the wholesaler to the city
for more than 60 days past due shall be a causation for the revocation of the
retailer’s license to sell cigarettes in this city.
(Ord. 95, passed 3-5-2018)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Junk Dealers
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.15   General prohibitions
   
113.16   Violation to be prosecuted as trespass
JUNK DEALERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment, area, or place of business
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or parts thereof.
   BUSINESS PREMISES or PREMISES. The area of a junk yard or automobile
graveyard as described in a junk dealer’s license or application for license,
as provided for in this subchapter.
   ITINERANT JUNK DEALER. An individual (natural person) who buys, sells,
collects, or delivers junk within the city as a business or employment, but who
is not an operator of a junk yard or automobile graveyard within the city or an
employee of such an operator.
   JUNK. Any old or scrap copper, brass, tin, lead, or other base metals,
cordage, rope, rags, fibers, fabrics, batteries, bottles, or other glass,
bones, paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked
automobiles, or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or
nonferrous material.
   JUNK DEALER. A person who operates a junk yard, as defined above, within the
city.
   JUNK YARD. An establishment, area, or place of business maintained,
operated, or used for the storing, keeping, buying, or selling of junk or for
the operation of an automobile graveyard, garbage dump, or sanitary fill.
(Prior Code, § 605.120)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a junk dealer or itinerant
junk dealer in the city, whether personally, by agents or employees, singly or
along with some other business or enterprise, without first having obtained a
license therefor from the City Clerk in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 605.130) Penalty, see §
10.99
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.15 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No peddler, solicitor, or canvasser shall:
      (1)   Enter upon any private property where the property has clearly
posted in the front yard a sign visible from the right-of-way (public or
private) indicating a prohibition against peddling, soliciting, and/or
canvassing. Such sign need not exceed one square foot in size and may contain
words such as “no soliciting” or “no solicitors” in letters of at least two
inches in height (The phrase “no soliciting” or “no solicitors” shall also
prohibit peddlers and canvassers.);
      (2)   Remain upon any private property where a notice in the form of a
sign or sticker is placed upon any door or entranceway leading into the
residence or dwelling at which guests would normally enter, which sign contains
the words “no soliciting” or “no solicitors” and which is clearly visible to
the peddler, solicitor, or canvasser;
      (3)   Enter upon any private property where the current occupant has
posted the property on the city’s “no visit” list (except where the posting
form indicates the occupant has given permission for this type of visit),
regardless of whether a front yard sign is posted;
      (4)   Use or attempt to rise any entrance other than the front or main
entrance to the dwelling, or step from the sidewalk or indicated walkway (where
one exists) leading from the right-of-way to the front or main entrance, except
by express invitation of the resident or occupant of the property;
      (5)   Remove any yard sign, door, or entrance sign that gives notice to
such person that the resident or occupant does not invite visitors; and
      (6)   Enter upon the property of another except between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. in the hours of Central Daylight Time.
   (B)   Except that the above prohibitions shall not apply when the peddler,
solicitor, or canvasser has an express invitation from the resident or occupant
of a dwelling allowing him or her to enter upon any posted property.
(Prior Code, § 605.170)
§ 113.16 VIOLATION TO BE PROSECUTED AS TRESPASS.
   Any person violating any part of this chapter shall have committed a
trespass on such property and shall be prosecuted under the general trespass
ordinance of the city. The penalty for such violation shall be the same as for
any other trespass.
(Prior Code, § 605.180)
CHAPTER 114: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
114.01   Declaration of policy
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Discriminatory practices
   
114.04   Discrimination in the financing of a house
   
114.05   Administration
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The City Council hereby declares it to be the public policy of the city to
eliminate discrimination and safeguard the right of any person to sell,
purchase, lease, rent, or obtain real property without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin. This chapter
shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for the protection
of the public welfare, prosperity, health, and peace of the people of the city.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who is attempting to provide housing for
himself and/or his or her family in the city.
   DISCRIMINATE. Distinctions in treatment because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin of any person.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 114.03 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be a discriminatory practice and a violation of the ordinance for
any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin of any person;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   Make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood or a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of a
handicap of that buyer or renter; a person residing in or intending to reside
in that dwelling after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or any person
associated with that buyer or renter.
      (2)   The design and construction of new multi-family dwellings
containing four or more units is required to meet certain adaptability and
accessibility requirements in accordance with the 1988 Fair Housing Amendments
Act § 804, being 42 U.S.C. § 3604; and
   (G)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of familial
status or because a family has children, exempting certain types of buildings
that house older persons (for example, § 202 Housing, being 12 U.S.C. § 1701q)
in accordance with the 1988 Fair Housing Amendments Act § 807, being 42 U.S.C.
§ 3604.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF A HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building, and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan to a person applying therefore for the purpose of purchasing,
constructing, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against
any person in the fixing of the amount or conditions of such loan, because of
the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin
of such person, or of any person therein associated in connection with such
financing.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Committee whose membership
shall consist of the Mayor and all members of the City Council.
   (B)   Every complaint of a violation of this chapter shall be referred to
this Committee. The Committee shall forthwith notify the person against whom
the complaint is made. The identity of the aggrieved person shall be made known
to the person against whom the complaint is made at that time.
      (1)   If the Committee, after investigation, finds there is no merit to
the complaint, the same shall be dismissed.
      (2)   If the Committee finds that there is merit in the complaint, in its
opinion, then and in that event, the Committee will endeavor to eliminate the
alleged discriminatory practice by conference and conciliation.
   (C)   If the Committee is unable to eliminate the alleged discriminatory
practice by conference and conciliation, then and in that event, the Committee
shall forward said complaint to the City Attorney for handling. The final
determination of whether to prosecute in Municipal Court on said complaint
shall be left to the City Attorney.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such manner as to limit
administrative enforcement mechanisms and recourse against alleged
discriminatory housing practices through the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, as specified under § 810 of the Fair Housing Act, as amended
effective March 12, 1989, and being 42 U.S. Code §
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted in Municipal Court of a violation of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of (not more than) $500 or by confinement in the
city jail for (not more than) 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   The City Attorney, instead of filing a complaint in Municipal Court of
said city, may, as an alternative remedy, seek to have the alleged
discriminatory practices abated by an action for an injunction to be maintained
in the appropriate Circuit Court of the state.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
136.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Assault
   
130.03   Domestic assault
   
130.04   Assault of a law enforcement officer
   
130.05   Harassment
   
130.06   False imprisonment
   
130.07   Endangering the welfare of a child
   
130.08   Leaving a child unattended in a motor vehicle
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.061.
   BURDEN OF INJECTING THE ISSUE. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.061.
   COMMERCIAL FILM AND PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINT PROCESSOR. Any person who develops
exposed photographic film into negatives, slides, or prints or who makes prints
from negatives or slides for compensation. The term COMMERCIAL FILM AND
PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINT PROCESSOR shall include all employees of such persons but
shall not include a person who develops film or makes prints for a public
agency.
   CONFINEMENT.
      (1)   A person is in CONFINEMENT when he or she is held in a place of
CONFINEMENT pursuant to arrest or order of a court and remains in CONFINEMENT
until:
         (a)   A court orders his or her release;
         (b)   He or she is released on bail, bond, or recognizance, personal
or otherwise; or
         (c)   A public servant having the legal power and duty to confine him
or her authorizes his or her release without guard and without condition that
he or she return to CONFINEMENT.
      (2)   A person is not in CONFINEMENT if:
         (a)   He or she is on probation or parole, temporary or otherwise; or
         (b)   He or she is under sentence to serve a term of confinement which
is not continuous, or is serving a sentence under a work-release program, and,
in either such case, is not being held in a place of CONFINEMENT or is not
being held under guard by a person having the legal power and duty to transport
him or her to or from a place of CONFINEMENT.
   CONSENT. Consent or lack of consent may be expressed or implied. Assent does
not constitute CONSENT if:
      (1)   It is given by a person who lacks the mental capacity to authorize
the conduct charged to constitute the offense and such mental incapacity is
manifest or known to the actor;
      (2)   It is given by a person who, by reason of youth, mental disease or
defect, or intoxication, is manifestly unable or known by the actor to be
unable to make a reasonable judgment as to the nature or harmfulness of the
conduct charged to constitute the offense; or
      (3)   It is induced by force, duress, or deception.
   CRIMINAL NEGLIGENCE. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 562.016.
   CUSTODY. A person is in custody when he or she has been arrested but has not
been delivered to a place of confinement.
   DANGEROUS FELONY. The felonies of arson in the first degree, assault in the
first degree, forcible rape, forcible sodomy, kidnapping, murder in the second
degree, and robbery in the first degree.
   DANGEROUS INSTRUMENT. Any instrument, article, or substance which, under the
circumstances in which it is used, is readily capable of causing death or other
serious physical injury.
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any firearm, loaded or unloaded, or any weapon from which a
shot, readily capable of producing death or serious physical injury, may be
discharged, or a switchblade knife, dagger, billy, blackjack, or metal
knuckles.
   FELONY. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.061.
   FORCIBLE COMPULSION. Means either:
      (1)   Physical force that overcomes reasonable resistance; or
      (2)   A threat, express or implied, that places a person in reasonable
fear of death, serious physical injury, or kidnapping of himself or herself or
another person.
   INCAPACITATED. The physical or mental condition, temporary or permanent, in
which a person is unconscious, unable to appraise the nature of his or her
conduct, or unable to communicate unwillingness to an act. A person is not
INCAPACITATED with respect to an act committed upon him or her if he or she
became unconscious, unable to appraise the nature of his or her conduct, or
unable to communicate unwillingness to an act after consenting to the act.
   INFRACTION. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.021.
   INHABITABLE STRUCTURE. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.061(30).
   KNOWINGLY. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 562.016.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any public servant having both the power and duty
to make arrests for violations of the laws of this state, and federal law
enforcement officers authorized to carry firearms and to make arrests for
violations of the laws of the United States.
   MISDEMEANOR. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 556.061.
   OFFENSE. Any felony, misdemeanor, or infraction.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical pain, illness, or any impairment of physical
condition.
   PLACE OF CONFINEMENT. Any building or facility and the grounds thereof
wherein a court is legally authorized to order that a person charged with or
convicted of a crime be held.
   POSSESS or POSSESSED. Having actual or constructive possession of an object
with knowledge of its presence. A person has actual possession if he or she has
the object on his or her person or within easy reach and convenient control. A
person has constructive possession if he or she has the power and the intention
at a given time to exercise dominion or control over the object either directly
or through another person or persons. Possession may also be sole or joint. If
one person alone has possession of an object, possession is sole. If two or
more persons share possession of an object, possession is joint.
   PUBLIC SERVANT. Any person employed in any way by a government of this state
who is compensated by the government by reason of his or her employment, any
person appointed to a position with any government of this state, or any person
elected to a position with any government of this state. It includes, but is
not limited to, legislators, jurors, members of the judiciary, and law
enforcement officers. It does not include witnesses.
   PURPOSELY. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 562.016.
   RECKLESSLY. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 562.016.
   RITUAL or CEREMONY. An act or series of acts performed by two or more
persons as part of an established or prescribed pattern of activity.
   SERIOUS EMOTIONAL INJURY. An injury that creates a substantial risk of
temporary or permanent medical or psychological damage manifested by impairment
of a behavioral, cognitive, or physical condition. SERIOUS EMOTIONAL INJURY
shall be established by testimony of qualified experts upon the reasonable
expectation of probable harm to a reasonable degree of medical or psychological
certainty.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of
the function of any part of the body.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of human masturbation, deviate sexual intercourse,
sexual intercourse, or physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or the breast of a female in an act of apparent
sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of the genitals or anus of any person or the
breast of any female person or any such touching through the clothing for the
purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire of any person.
   SEXUAL PERFORMANCE. Any performance, or part thereof, which includes sexual
conduct by a child who is less than 17 years of age.
   VOLUNTARY ACT. Has the meaning specified in RSMo. § 562.011.
(Prior Code, § 210.005)
§ 130.02 ASSAULT.
   A person commits the offense of assault if:
   (A)   The person attempts to cause or recklessly causes physical injury to
another person;
   (B)   With criminal negligence, the person causes physical injury to another
person by means of a deadly weapon;
   (C)   The person purposely places another person in apprehension of
immediate physical injury;
   (D)   The person recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk of
death or serious physical injury to another person;
   (E)   The person knowingly causes physical contact with another person
knowing the other person will regard the contact as offensive or provocative;
or
   (F)   The person knowingly causes physical contact with an incapacitated
person, as defined in RSMo. § 475.010, which a reasonable person, who is not
incapacitated, would consider offensive or provocative.
(Prior Code, § 210.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DOMESTIC ASSAULT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of domestic assault if the act involves a
family or household member or an adult who is, or has been, in a continuing
social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the actor, as defined
in RSMo. § 455.010, and:
      (1)   The person attempts to cause or recklessly causes physical injury
to such family or household member;
      (2)   With criminal negligence, the person causes physical injury to such
family or household member by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument;
      (3)   The person purposely places such family or household member in
apprehension of immediate physical injury by any means;
      (4)   The person recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk
of death or serious physical injury to such family or household member;
      (5)   The person knowingly causes physical contact with such family or
household member knowing the other person will regard the contact as offensive;
or
      (6)   The person knowingly attempts to cause or causes the isolation of
such family or household member by unreasonably and substantially restricting
or limiting such family or household member’s access to other persons,
telecommunication devices, or transportation for the purpose of isolation.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 ASSAULT OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of assault of a law enforcement officer if:
   (A)   He or she attempts to cause or recklessly causes physical injury to a
law enforcement officer;
   (B)   With criminal negligence, he or she causes physical injury to a law
enforcement officer by means of a deadly weapon;
   (C)   He or she purposely places a law enforcement officer in apprehension
of immediate physical injury;
   (D)   He or she recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk of
death or serious physical injury to a law enforcement officer; or
   (E)   He or she knowingly causes or attempts to cause physical contact with
a law enforcement officer without the consent of the law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 210.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 HARASSMENT.
   A person commits the offense of harassment if, for the purpose of
frightening or disturbing another person, he or she:
   (A)   Communicates in writing or by telephone a threat to commit any felony;
   (B)   Makes a telephone call or communicates in writing and uses coarse
language offensive to one of average sensibility;
   (C)   Makes a telephone call anonymously; or
   (D)   Makes repeated telephone calls.
(Prior Code, § 210.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 FALSE IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of false imprisonment if he or she
knowingly restrains another unlawfully and without consent so as to interfere
substantially with his or her liberty.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 ENDANGERING THE WELFARE OF A CHILD.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of endangering the welfare of a
child if:
         (a)   He or she, with criminal negligence, acts in a manner that
creates a substantial risk to the life, body, or health of a child less than 17
years old;
         (b)   He or she knowingly encourages, aids, or causes a child less
than 17 years old to engage in any conduct which causes or tends to cause the
child to come within the provisions of RSMo. § 211.031(1)(2)(d) or (1)(3);
         (c)   Being a parent, guardian, or other person legally charged with
the care or custody of a child less than 17 years old, he or she recklessly
fails or refuses to exercise reasonable diligence in the care or control of
such child to prevent him or her from coming within the provisions of RSMo. §
211.031(1)(c) or (1)(2)(d) or (1)(3); or
         (d)   He or she knowingly encourages, aids, or causes a child less
than 17 years of age to enter into any room, building, or other structure which
is a public nuisance, as defined in RSMo. § 579.105.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean the welfare of a
child is endangered for the sole reason that he or she is being provided non-
medical remedial treatment recognized and permitted under the laws of this
state.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 LEAVING A CHILD UNATTENDED IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         COLLISION. The act of a motor vehicle coming into contact with an
object or a person.
         INJURY. Physical harm to the body of a person.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, truck-tractor, or any motorbus
or motor-propelled vehicle not exclusively operated or driven on fixed rails or
tracks.
         UNATTENDED. Not accompanied by an individual 14 years of age or older.
      (2)   A person commits the offense of leaving a child unattended in a
motor vehicle if such person knowingly leaves a child ten years of age or less
unattended in a motor vehicle and such child injures another person by causing
a motor vehicle collision or by causing the motor vehicle to injure a
pedestrian.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.055) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
Section
   
131.01   Concealing an offense
   
131.02   Hindering prosecution
   
131.03   Refusal to identify as a witness
   
131.04   Disturbing a judicial proceeding
   
131.05   Tampering with a witness; tampering with a victim
   
131.06   Improper communication
   
131.07   False impersonation
   
131.08   False reports
   
131.09   Resisting or interfering with arrest
   
131.10   Escape or attempted escape from custody
§ 131.01 CONCEALING AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of concealing an offense if:
      (1)   He or she confers or agrees to confer any pecuniary benefit or
other consideration to any person in consideration of that person’s concealing
of any offense, refraining from initiating, or aiding in the prosecution of an
offense, or withholding any evidence thereof; or
      (2)   He or she accepts or agrees to accept any pecuniary benefit or
other consideration in consideration of his or her concealing any offense,
refraining from initiating, or aiding in the prosecution of an offense, or
withholding any evidence thereof.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 HINDERING PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of hindering prosecution if, for the
purpose of preventing the apprehension, prosecution, conviction, or punishment
of another for conduct constituting a crime, he or she:
      (1)   Harbors or conceals such person;
      (2)   Warns such person of impending discovery or apprehension, except
this does not apply to a warning given in connection with an effort to bring
another into compliance with the law;
      (3)   Provides such person with money, transportation, weapon, disguise,
or other means to aid him or her in avoiding discovery or apprehension; or
      (4)   Prevents or obstructs, by means of force, deception, or
intimidation, anyone from performing an act that might aid in the discovery or
apprehension of such person.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 REFUSAL TO IDENTIFY AS A WITNESS.
   A person commits the offense of refusal to identify as a witness if, knowing
he or she has witnessed any portion of a crime, or of any other incident
resulting in physical injury or substantial property damage, upon demand by a
law enforcement officer engaged in the performance of his or her official
duties, he or she refuses to report or gives a false report of his or her name
and present address to such officer.
(Prior Code, § 210.080) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 DISTURBING A JUDICIAL PROCEEDING.
   A person commits the offense of disturbing a judicial proceeding if, with
purpose to intimidate a judge, attorney, juror, party, or witness and thereby
to influence a judicial proceeding, he or she disrupts or disturbs a judicial
proceeding by participating in an assembly and calling aloud, shouting, or
holding or displaying a placard or sign containing written or printed matter
concerning the conduct of the judicial proceeding or the character of a judge,
attorney, juror, party, or witness engaged in such proceeding, or calling for
or demanding any specified action or determination by such judge, attorney,
juror, party, or witness in connection with such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 210.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 TAMPERING WITH A WITNESS; TAMPERING WITH A VICTIM.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of tampering with a witness if,
with purpose to induce a witness or a prospective witness in an official
proceeding to disobey a subpoena or other legal process, or to absent himself
or herself or avoid subpoena or other legal process, or to withhold evidence,
information, or documents, or to testify falsely, he or she:
         (a)   Threatens or causes harm to any person or property;
         (b)   Uses force, threats, or deception;
         (c)   Offers, confers, or agrees to confer any benefit, direct or
indirect, upon such witness; or
         (d)   Conveys any of the foregoing to another in furtherance of a
conspiracy.
      (2)   A person commits the offense of “victim tampering” if, with purpose
to do so, he or she prevents or dissuades or attempts to prevent or dissuade
any person who has been a victim of any crime or a person who is acting on
behalf of any such victim from:
         (a)   Making any report of such victimization to any peace officer or
state, local, or federal law enforcement officer or prosecuting agency or to
any judge;
         (b)   Causing a complaint, indictment, or information to be sought and
prosecuted or assisting in the prosecution thereof; or
         (c)   Arresting or causing or seeking the arrest of any person in
connection with such victimization.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 IMPROPER COMMUNICATION.
   A person commits the offense of improper communication if he or she
communicates, directly or indirectly, with any juror, special master, referee,
or arbitrator in a judicial proceeding, other than as part of the proceedings
in a case, for the purpose of influencing the official action of such person.
(Prior Code, § 210.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 FALSE IMPERSONATION.
   A person commits the offense of false impersonation if he or she:
   (A)   Falsely represents himself or herself to be a public servant with
purpose to induce another to submit to his or her pretended official authority
or to rely upon his or her pretended official acts, and:
      (1)   Performs an act in that pretended capacity; or
      (2)   Causes another to act in reliance upon his or her pretended
official authority.
   (B)   Falsely represents himself or herself to be a person licensed to
practice or engage in any profession for which a license is required by the
laws of this state with purpose to induce another to rely upon such
representation, and:
      (1)   Performs an act in that pretended capacity; or
      (2)   Causes another to act in reliance upon such representation.
(Prior Code, § 210.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of making a false report if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Gives false information to any person for the purpose of
implicating another person in a crime or offense;
      (2)   Makes a false report to a law enforcement officer that a crime or
offense has occurred or is about to occur; or
      (3)   Makes a false report or causes a false report to be made to a law
enforcement officer, security officer, Fire Department, or other organization,
official, or volunteer which deals with emergencies involving danger to life or
property that a fire or other incident calling for an emergency response has
occurred or is about to occur.
   (B)   It is a defense to a prosecution under division (A) above that the
actor retracted the false statement or report before the law enforcement
officer or any other person took substantial action in reliance thereon.
   (C)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue of
retraction under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 210.130) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH ARREST.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of resisting or interfering with
arrest, detention, or stop if, knowing that a law enforcement officer is making
an arrest, or attempting to lawfully detain or stop an individual or vehicle,
or the person reasonably should know that a law enforcement officer is making
an arrest or attempting to lawfully detain or lawfully stop an individual or
vehicle, for the purpose of preventing the officer from effecting the arrest,
stop, or detention, the person:
         (a)   Resists the arrest, stop, or detention of such person by using
or threatening the use of violence or physical force or by fleeing from such
officer; or
         (b)   Interferes with the arrest, stop, or detention of another person
by using or threatening the use of violence, physical force, or physical
interference.
      (2)   This section applies to arrests, stops, or detentions with or
without warrants and to arrests, stops, or detentions for any crime,
infraction, or ordinance violation.
      (3)   A person is presumed to be fleeing a vehicle stop if that person
continues to operate a motor vehicle after that person has seen or should have
seen clearly visible emergency lights or has heard or should have heard an
audible signal emanating from the law enforcement vehicle pursuing that person.
      (4)   It is no defense to a prosecution under division (A)(1) above that
the law enforcement officer was acting unlawfully in making the arrest.
However, nothing in this section shall be construed to bar civil suits for
unlawful arrest.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.140) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 ESCAPE OR ATTEMPTED ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of escape from custody or attempted
escape from custody if, while being held in custody after arrest for any crime
or offense, he or she escapes or attempts to escape from custody.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.150) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Abandonment of airtight or semi-airtight containers
   
132.02   Littering
   
132.03   Littering via carcasses
   
132.04   Corrupting or diverting water supply
   
132.05   Abandoning motor vehicle
   
132.06   Fireworks
   
132.07   Fighting
§ 132.01 ABANDONMENT OF AIRTIGHT OR SEMI-AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of abandonment of an airtight icebox if
he or she abandons, discards, or knowingly permits to remain on premises under
his or her control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or
discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight container
which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an opening of
50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge,
latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid without
rendering such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches, or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other
airtight or semi-airtight container located in that part of a building occupied
by a dealer, warehouseperson, or repairperson.
   (C)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue under
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 210.160) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 LITTERING.
   A person commits the offense of littering if he or she throws or places or
causes to be thrown or placed any glass, glass bottles, wire, nails, tacks,
hedge, cans, garbage, trash, refuse, or rubbish of any kind, nature, or
description on the right-of-way of any public road or state highway, or on or
in any of the waters in this city or on the banks of any stream, or on any land
or water owned, operated, or leased by the state, any board, department,
agency, or commission thereof or on any land or water owned, operated, or
leased by the federal government, or on any private real property owned by
another without his or her consent.
(Prior Code, § 210.170) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 LITTERING VIA CARCASSES.
   (A)   If any person or persons shall put any dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof, the offal, or any other filth into any well, spring, brook, branch,
creek, pond, or lake, every person so offending shall, on conviction thereof,
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500.
   (B)   If any person shall remove or cause to be removed and placed in or
near any public road or highway, or upon premises not his or her own, or in any
river, stream, or watercourse any dead animal, carcass, or part thereof, or
other nuisance to the annoyance of the citizens of this city, or any of them,
every person so offending shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined for every
offense not less than $25 nor more than $500, and if such nuisance be not
removed within three days thereafter, it shall be deemed a second offense
against the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 210.180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 CORRUPTING OR DIVERTING WATER SUPPLY.
   Whoever willfully or maliciously poisons, defiles, or in any way corrupts
the water of a well, spring, brook, or reservoir used for domestic or municipal
purposes, or whoever willfully or maliciously diverts, dams up, and holds back
from its natural course and flow any spring, brook, or other water supply for
domestic or municipal purposes, after said water supply shall have once been
taken for use by any person or persons, corporation, town, or city for their
use, shall be adjudged guilty of an ordinance violation and punished by a fine
not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment in the city or county
jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, and shall be
liable to the party injured for three times the actual damage sustained, to be
recovered by suit at law.
(Prior Code, § 210.190) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 ABANDONING MOTOR VEHICLE.
   A person commits the offense of abandoning a motor vehicle if he or she
abandons any motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any public road or state
highway or on or in any of the waters in this state or on the banks of any
stream or on any land or water owned, operated, or leased by the state, any
board, department, agency, or commission thereof or any political subdivision
thereof or on any land or water owned, operated, or leased by the federal
government or on any private real property owned by another without his or her
consent.
(Prior Code, § 210.200) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Fireworks, as defined under RSMo. § 320.106, shall include common
fireworks and special fireworks, as defined under RSMo. § 320.106.
   (B)   No persons shall sell or expose for sale any fireworks in the
corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, possesses, or controls
property within the corporate limits of the city to permit, allow, or not
prevent the discharge of fireworks on said property by an invitee of the person
who owns, operates, or controls the premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person responsible
for a minor for said minor to discharge fireworks inside the corporate city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 210.205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FIGHTING.
   If two or more persons shall, within the corporate limits of the city,
voluntarily or by agreement, engage in any fight, or use any blows or violence
toward each other in an angry or quarrelsome manner, or do each any willful
mischief or injury, or if any person shall assault, strike, beat, or fight
another within the limits of said city, the person or person so offending shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 210.207) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Peace disturbance
   
133.02   Private peace disturbance
   
133.03   Peace disturbance definitions
   
133.04   Weapons; carrying concealed; other unlawful use
   
133.05   Unlawful transfer of weapons
   
133.06   Discharging air gun and the like
   
133.07   Unlawful assembly
   
133.08   Rioting
   
133.09   Refusal to disperse
   
133.10   False alarm by alarm users
§ 133.01 PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of peace disturbance if:
      (1)   He or unreasonably and knowingly disturbs or alarms another person
or persons by:
         (a)   Loud noise;
         (b)   Offensive language addressed in a face-to-face manner to a
specific individual and uttered under circumstances which are likely to produce
an immediate violent response from a reasonable recipient;
         (c)   Threatening to commit a felonious act against any person under
circumstances which are likely to cause a reasonable person to fear that such
threat may be carried out;
         (d)   Fighting; or
         (e)   Creating a noxious and offensive odor.
      (2)   He or she is in a public place or on the private property of
another without consent and purposely causes inconvenience to another person or
persons by unreasonably and physically obstructing:
         (a)   Vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
         (b)   The free ingress or egress to or from a public or private place.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of noise disturbance if:
      (1)   He or she plays an radio, television, or any device made to play
cassettes, records, compact disc, audio, and/or videotapes, loudspeakers,
musical instruments, or any similar device so that it emits a sound that can be
heard 100 feet or more from the device. This includes any of the aforementioned
devices that are mounted in motor vehicles, boats, trucks, or bicycles carried
on one’s person or place in a building, to include private residences,
apartments, places of business, and similar structures;
      (2)   A public safety officer may issue a uniform traffic ticket (UTT) to
the individual responsible for any such device emitting sound in violation of
division (B)(1) above, including the driver of a motor vehicle, or the first
registered owner of the vehicle, the owner of record, or a resident of a
residence or apartment, the proprietor of a business, or the person who is in
physical control of any such device;
      (3)   This chapter shall not apply to a parade, march, carnival, circus,
rodeo, show, fair, festival, bazaar, or special event having obtained the
required licenses and permits, subject to the terms of those licenses and
permits nor religious services, noise emitted by machinery during its normal
operation, emergency vehicles, emergency equipment, or noise emitted under
similar circumstances, city school district activities, activities associated
with business, or commercial locations in an appropriately zoned district where
the activities are inside the structure; and
      (4)   Any individual, business, and organization may apply for a permit
that will allow for an outside event where noise generated may otherwise be in
violation of this chapter. The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, in his
or her discretion may issue such permit. Such permit shall identify the
applicant and issue such permit. Such permit shall identify the applicant and
duration of the event. No fee shall be charged for an such permit.
(Prior Code, § 210.210) (Ord. 7, passed 1-5-2004; Ord. 56, passed 4-5-2010)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 PRIVATE PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   A person commits the offense of private peace disturbance if he or she is on
private property and unreasonably and purposely causes alarm to another person
or persons on the same premises by:
   (A)   Threatening to commit a crime or offense against any person; or
   (B)   Fighting.
(Prior Code, § 210.220) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 PEACE DISTURBANCE DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this §§
133.01 and
133.02, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any place which at the time is not open to the public. It
includes property which is owned publicly or privately.
   PROPERTY OF ANOTHER. Any property in which the actor does not have a
possessory interest.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which at the time is open to the public. It includes
property which is owned publicly or privately.
   If a building or structure is divided into separately occupied units, such
units are SEPARATE PREMISES.
(Prior Code, § 210.230)
§ 133.04 WEAPONS; CARRYING CONCEALED; OTHER UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons if he or
she knowingly:
         (a)   Carries concealed upon or about his or her person a knife, a
firearm, a blackjack, or any other weapon readily capable of lethal use;
         (b)   Discharges or shoots a firearm within the city limits;
         (c)   Possesses a firearm or projectile weapon while intoxicated;
         (d)   Carries a firearm or any other weapon readily capable of lethal
use; or
         (e)   Carries a firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, or any other
weapon readily capable of lethal use into any school, onto any school bus, or
onto the premises of any function or activity sponsored or sanctioned by school
officials or the district school board.
      (2)   Divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(d), and (A)(1)(e) above
shall not apply to or affect any of the following:
         (a)   All state, county, and municipal law enforcement officers
possessing the duty and power of arrest for violation of the general criminal
laws of the state or for violation of ordinances of counties or municipalities
of the state, or any person summoned by such officers to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting such
officer;
         (b)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons,
penitentiaries, jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons
accused or convicted of crime;
         (c)   Members of the Armed Forces or National Guard while performing
their official duty;
         (d)   Those persons vested by Article V, § 1 of the Constitution of
the state with the judicial power of the state and those persons vested by
Article III of the Constitution of the United States with the judicial power of
the United States, the members of the federal judiciary;
         (e)   Any person whose bona fide duty is to execute process, civil or
criminal;
         (f)   Any federal probation officer;
         (g)   Any state probation or parole officer, including supervisors and
members of the Board of Probation and Parole;
         (h)   Any corporate security advisor meeting the definition and
fulfilling the requirements of the regulations established by the Board of
Police Commissioners under RSMo. § 84.340; and
         (i)   The discharge of firearms in connection with any turkey shoots
or other charitable event authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
      (3)   (a)   Divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), and (A)
(1)(e) above do not apply when the actor is transporting such weapons in a non-
functioning state or in an unloaded state when ammunition is not readily
accessible or when such weapons are not readily accessible.
         (b)   Division (A)(1)(a) above does not apply when the actor is also
in possession of an exposed firearm or projectile weapon for the lawful pursuit
of game, or is in his or her dwelling unit or upon business premises over which
the actor has possession, authority, or control, or is traveling in a
continuous journey peaceably through the city. Division (A)(1) above does not
apply if the firearm is otherwise lawfully possessed by a person while
traversing school premises for the purpose of transporting a student to or from
school, or possessed by an adult for the purpose of facilitation of a school-
sanctioned firearm-related event.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall make it unlawful for a student to
actually participate in school-sanctioned gun safety courses, student military
or ROTC courses, or other school-sponsored firearm-related events, provided the
student does not carry a firearm or other weapon readily capable of lethal use
into any school, onto any school bus, or onto the premises of any function or
activity sponsored or sanctioned by school officials or the district school
board.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.240) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF WEAPONS.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful transfer of weapons if he or she:
   (A)   Knowingly sells, leases, loans, gives away, or delivers a blackjack to
a person less than 18 years old without the consent of the child’s custodial
parent or guardian or recklessly, as defined in RSMo. § 562.016; sells, leases,
loans, gives away, or delivers any firearm to a person less than 18 years old
without the consent of the child’s custodial parent or guardian, provided that
this does not prohibit the delivery of such weapons to any peace officer or
member of the Armed Forces or National Guard while performing his or her
official duty; or
   (B)   Recklessly, as defined in RSMo. § 562.016, sells, leases, loans, gives
away, or delivers a firearm or ammunition for a firearm to a person who is
intoxicated.
(Prior Code, § 210.245) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 DISCHARGING AIR GUN AND THE LIKE.
   Any person, within the limits of this city, who shall discharge any BB gun,
spring gun, paint gun, or air gun or shall shoot any pebble, bullet, slug,
arrow, or other hard substance by means of a sling, crossbow, rubber band, or
bow or any other means that endangers the property or person of another shall
be deemed guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 210.250) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful assembly if he or she knowingly
assembles with six or more other persons and agrees with such persons to
violate any of the criminal laws of this state or of the United States with
force or violence.
(Prior Code, § 210.260) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.08 RIOTING.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of rioting if he or she knowingly
assembles with six or more other persons and agrees with such persons to
violate any of the criminal laws of this state or of the United States with
force or violence and thereafter, while still so assembled, does violate any of
said laws with force of violence.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.270) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.09 REFUSAL TO DISPERSE.
   A person commits the offense of refusal to disperse if, being present at the
scene of an unlawful assembly or at the scene of a riot, he or she knowingly
fails or refuses to obey the lawful command of a law enforcement officer to
depart from the scene of such unlawful assembly or riot.
(Prior Code, § 210.280) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.10 FALSE ALARM BY ALARM USERS.
   (A)   False alarms prohibited. It shall be unlawful to have more than six
false alarms within any 12 consecutive month period. In addition, six alarms
within any consecutive 12 month period may constitute grounds for other
sanctions as hereinafter enumerated. Upon the third false alarm, written notice
shall be issued to the alarm user.
   (B)   Procedures and sanctions in the event of six false alarms within any
12 consecutive month period.
      (1)   ALARM USER means any person on whose premises an alarm system is
maintained within the city which is connected to the city’s alarm system.
      (2)   Upon six false alarms within any 12 consecutive month period, the
Mayor or other designated representative of the city shall give written notice
to the alarm user asking them to show cause before the Board of Aldermen of the
city as to why their alarm system should not be disconnected. The notice given
to the alarm user shall set a hearing date which is at least ten days from the
date of notice.
      (3)   At the hearing, should the Board of Aldermen conclude from the
evidence presented:
         (a)   The problem with the alarm system resulting in false alarms has
been corrected, then no further action will be taken, but in the case of
another false alarm within the remaining 12 month period, the procedure and
sanctions outlined in this section shall be utilized again; or
         (b)   If the problem with the alarm system resulting in a false alarm
remains, then the alarm system user will be given the option of either signing
an agreement which he or she agrees to pay $75 per false alarm for each false
alarm for which the city responds for the remaining 12 months or their alarm
system will be disconnected from the city alarm system.
      (4)   In the event the alarm user does not attend the hearing, the alarm
system will be disconnected and notice sent to the alarm system user stating he
or she may request reinstatement through the Board of Aldermen of the city.
   (C)   Reinstatement. A disconnected alarm system may be reinstated by the
Board of Aldermen of the city upon its determination that the cause or causes
of disconnection have been satisfactorily remedied and upon the execution of an
agreement as referenced in division (B)(3)(b) above and upon payment of a $25
fee to be paid to the city for reinstatement.
(Prior Code, § 210.700) (Ord. 19, passed 11-7-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Tampering
   
134.02   Property damage
   
134.03   Disturbing property
   
134.04   Claim of right
   
134.05   Trespass in the first degree
   
134.06   Trespass in the second degree
   
134.07   Prowling and peeping
   
134.08   Trespass of a school bus
   
134.09   Open burning not permitted; exceptions
   
134.10   Misusing burial grounds
   
134.11   Cemetery; establishment; permission for burial
   
134.12   Impeding the use of streets, sidewalks, or alleys
   
134.13   Posting bills, paintings, signs, and the like
Theft and Fraud
   
134.25   Stealing
   
134.26   Theft of motor fuel
   
134.27   Receiving stolen property
   
134.28   Financial exploitation of the elderly and disabled
   
134.29   Fraudulent use of a credit or debit device
   
134.30   Deceptive business practice
   
134.31   Alteration or removal of item numbers with intent to deprive lawful
owner
   
134.32   Failure to return rented personal property; enforcement procedure;
venue
   
134.33   Passing bad checks
   
134.34   Shoplifting; detention of suspect by merchant; liability presumption
Offenses in the City Park
   
134.45   Opening and closing hours of city parks except as to permit holders
   
134.46   Regulations concerning vehicles in the city park
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 TAMPERING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of tampering if he or she:
         (a)   Tampers with property of another for the purpose of causing
substantial inconvenience to that person or to another;
         (b)   Unlawfully rides in or upon another’s automobile, airplane,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle;
         (c)   Tampers or makes connection with property of a utility; or
         (d)   Tampers with, or causes to be tampered with, any meter or other
property of an electric, gas, steam, or water utility, the effect of which
tampering is either:
            1.   To prevent the proper measuring of electric, gas, steam, or
water service; or
            2.   To permit the diversion of any electric, gas, steam, or water
service.
      (2)   In any prosecution under division (A)(1)(d) above, proof that a
meter or any other property of a utility has been tampered with, and the person
or persons accused received the use or direct benefit of the electric, gas,
steam, or water service with one or more of the effects described in division
(A)(1)(d) above, shall be sufficient to support an inference which the trial
court may submit to the trier of fact from which the trier of fact may conclude
that there has been a violation of such subdivision by the person or persons
who use or receive the direct benefit of the electric, gas, steam, or water
service.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.290) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of property damage if:
      (1)   He or she knowingly damages property of another; or
      (2)   He or she damages property for the purpose of defrauding an
insurer.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.300) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 DISTURBING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall molest, disturb, injure, damage, or in any manner
interfere with any property belonging to any person.
   (B)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control
device, sign, or signal, including any sign designed to aid or assist the
general public.
(Prior Code, § 210.305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 CLAIM OF RIGHT.
   (A)   A person does not commit an offense by damaging, tampering with,
operating, riding in or upon, or making connection with property of another if
he or she does so under a claim of right and has reasonable grounds to believe
he or she has such a right.
   (B)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue of claim of
right.
(Prior Code, § 210.310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 TRESPASS IN THE FIRST DEGREE.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of trespass in the first degree if
he or she knowingly enters unlawfully or knowingly remains unlawfully in a
building or inhabitable structure or upon real property.
      (2)   A person does not commit the offense of trespass by entering or
remaining upon real property unless the real property is fenced or otherwise
enclosed in a manner designed to exclude intruders or as to which notice
against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner reasonably likely to come to the attention
of intruders.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06 TRESPASS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of trespass in the second degree if he or
she enters unlawfully upon real property of another. This is an offense of
absolute liability.
   (B)   Trespass in the second degree is an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 210.330)
§ 134.07 PROWLING AND PEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to go upon the premises, either in the
nighttime or the daytime, of any inhabitant of the city with the intent to spy
upon or to intrude upon the privacy of the owner or occupant of such premises.
(Prior Code, § 210.335) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.08 TRESPASS OF A SCHOOL BUS.
   A person commits the offense of trespass of a school bus if he or she
knowingly and unlawfully enters any part of or unlawfully operates any school
bus.
(Prior Code, § 210.340) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.09 OPEN BURNING NOT PERMITTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition on open burning. It shall be unlawful for any person to
openly burn shavings, leaves, rubbish, manure, straw, garbage, refuse of any
kind, or any other matter within the city, except as provided in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Exceptions to open burning prohibition.
      (1)   Open burning is permitted for the following purposes, when done in
accordance with the regulations of the BOCA National Fire Prevention Code and
the appropriate air pollution control agency:
         (a)   Cooking;
         (b)   On a construction site for warming purposes, in 55 gallon drums
with holes on bottom, using only clean wood, no painted or treated material;
and
         (c)   On a construction site to heat mortar for masonry work.
      (2)   The following uses are permitted only with written permission of
the appropriate air pollution control agency and fire protection agency:
         (a)   Bonfires for recreational purposes; and
         (b)   Clearing of farmland.
(Prior Code, § 210.350) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.10 MISUSING BURIAL GROUNDS.
   Every person who shall willfully destroy, disfigure, or injure any wall,
fence, hedge, monument, tombstone, tree, or shrubbery around or within any
cemetery, graveyard, or burial ground or who shall use such cemetery,
graveyard, or burial ground or shall be guilty of any unseemly, offensive, or
lascivious conduct within or about such burial ground shall be fined as
provided in §
10.99. The provisions of this section shall apply to all cemeteries and
graveyards within five miles thereof which belong to the city or which are or
may be used for the interment or sepulcher of the inhabitants of this city,
whether belonging to this city or to any person, company, corporation, church,
or association.
(Prior Code, § 210.426) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.11 CEMETERY; ESTABLISHMENT; PERMISSION FOR BURIAL.
   (A)   No person shall lay out or establish any public or private burying
grounds or cemetery within the city unless authority to do so shall have been
granted to such person by ordinance duly enacted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of any deceased
person anywhere within the city, except in a cemetery or place of interment
duly authorized or recognized as a public or private burying ground, unless
special permission for such burial or interment is first secured from the Board
of Aldermen. The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Board of Aldermen, may,
in exceptional circumstances, by ordinance duly enacted, grant permission for
burial in some private lot or place of interment.
(Prior Code, § 210.427)
§ 134.12 IMPEDING THE USE OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS, OR ALLEYS.
   A person commits the offense of impeding the use of streets, sidewalks, or
alleys if he or she shall interfere with, impede, or obstruct the free use of
any street, sidewalk, or alley by another by:
   (A)   Coasting, rollerskating, rollerblading, ice skating, skate boarding,
or the use of a scooter on any street, sidewalk, or alley;
   (B)   Flying kites on any street, sidewalk, or alley;
   (C)   Playing baseball, football, soccer, or any other game or sport on any
street, sidewalk, or alley;
   (D)   Sitting, standing, lying, or loitering on any street, sidewalk, or
alley; or
   (E)   By any other conduct which impedes or obstructs the free use of any
street, sidewalk, or alley by another.
(Prior Code, § 210.710) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.13 POSTING BILLS, PAINTINGS, SIGNS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or cause to be posted any
bill or paint, write, or print or cause to be painted, written, or printed any
sign or device on any privately owned wall, building, or structure or other
property of another, without first obtaining the consent of the owner.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to paint, write, or print or
cause to be painted, written, or printed on any street, sidewalk, bridge,
viaduct, pole, tree, post, or on any wall, building, or structure owned by any
governmental subdivision.
      (2)   It shall be permissible to post or cause to be posted bills or
other printed advertisements upon poles, trees, or posts belonging to the city
provided the method of fastening said bills or advertisements shall not damage
said pole, tree, or post and further provided that such bill or advertisement
is removed within ten days after the election or event which is being so
advertised.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the presence of any bill, sign, device,
painting, or printing in a location prohibited by this section, which contains
or includes the name of a business or corporation or the name by which a
business or corporation is doing business, shall be prima facie evidence that
both the business or corporation and its manager(s), officer(s), and director
(s) had knowledge thereof and had posted, painted, written, printed such bill,
sign, device, painting, or printing in such location or caused the same to be
posted, painted, written, printed in such location. Further for the purpose of
this section, the presence of any bill, sign, device, painting, or printing in
a location prohibited by this section which shall contain or include the name
of any person shall be prima facie evidence that such person had knowledge
thereof and had posted, painted, written, printed such bill, sign, device,
printing, or painting in such location or caused the same to be posted,
painted, written, printed in such location.
(Prior Code, § 210.720) Penalty, see §
10.99
THEFT AND FRAUD
§ 134.25 STEALING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of stealing if he or she
appropriates property or services of another with the purpose to deprive him or
her thereof, either without his or her consent or by means of deceit or
coercion.
      (2)   Evidence of the following is admissible in any prosecution pursuant
to this section on the issue of the requisite knowledge or belief of the
alleged stealer that:
         (a)   He or she failed or refused to pay for property or services of a
hotel, restaurant, inn, or boarding house;
         (b)   He or she gave in payment for property or services of a hotel,
restaurant, inn, or boarding house a check or negotiable paper on which payment
was refused;
         (c)   He or she left the hotel, restaurant, inn, or boarding house
with the intent to not pay for property or services;
         (d)   He or she surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his or
her baggage from a hotel, inn, or boarding house; or
         (e)   He or she, with intent to cheat or defraud a retailer,
possesses, uses, utters, transfers, makes, alters, counterfeits, or reproduces
a retail sales receipt, price tag, or universal price code label or possesses,
with intent to cheat or defraud, the device that manufactures fraudulent
receipts or universal price code labels.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.360) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.26 THEFT OF MOTOR FUEL.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle so as to cause it to leave the
premises of an establishment at which motor fuel offered for retail sale was
dispensed into the fuel tank of such motor vehicle unless payment or authorized
charge for motor fuel dispensed has been made.
   (B)   A person found guilty or pleading guilty to stealing pursuant to RSMo.
§ 570.030, for the theft of motor fuel as described in division (A) above,
shall have his or her driver’s license suspended by the court, beginning on the
date of the court’s order of conviction. The person shall submit all of his or
her operator’s and chauffeur’s licenses to the court upon conviction and the
court shall forward all such driver’s licenses and the order of suspension of
driving privileges to the Department of Revenue for administration of such
order.
(Prior Code, § 210.365)
§ 134.27 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of receiving stolen property if,
for the purpose of depriving the owner of a lawful interest therein, he or she
receives, retains, or disposes of property of another knowing that it has been
stolen or believing that it has been stolen.
      (2)   Evidence of the following is admissible in any criminal prosecution
pursuant to this section to prove the requisite knowledge or belief of the
alleged receiver that:
         (c)   He or she was found in possession or control of other property
stolen on separate occasions from two or more persons;
         (b)   He or she received other stolen property in another transaction
within the year preceding the transaction charged; or
         (c)   He or she acquired the stolen property for a consideration which
he or she knew was far below its reasonable value.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.370) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.28 FINANCIAL EXPLOITATION OF THE ELDERLY AND DISABLED.
   (A)   A person is guilty of the offense of financial exploitation of an
elderly or disabled person if such person stands in a position of trust and
confidence with the elderly or disabled person, and such person knowingly and
by deception or intimidation obtains control over the elderly or disabled
person’s property with the intent to permanently deprive the elderly or
disabled person of the use, benefit, or possession of his or her property
thereby benefitting such person or detrimentally affecting the elderly or
disabled person. Financial exploitation of an elderly or disabled person is a
misdemeanor if the value of the property is less than $250.
   (B)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have these
prescribed meanings:
      DECEPTION. A misrepresentation or concealment of material fact relating
to the terms of a contract or agreement entered into with the elderly or
disabled person or to the existing or pre-existing condition of any of the
property involved in such contract or agreement, or the use or employment of
any misrepresentation, false pretense, or false promise in order to induce,
encourage, or solicit the elderly or disabled person to enter into a contract
or agreement. DECEPTION includes:
         (a)   Creating or confirming another person’s impression which is
false and which the offender does not believe to be true;
         (b)   Failure to correct a false impression which the offender
previously has created or confirmed;
         (c)   Preventing another person from acquiring information pertinent
to the disposition of the property involved;
         (d)   Selling or otherwise transferring or encumbering property,
failing to disclose a lien, adverse claim, or other legal impediment to the
enjoyment of the property, whether such impediment is or is not valid or is or
is not a matter of official record; and
         (e)   Promising performance which the offender does not intend to
perform or knows will not be performed. Failure to perform standing alone is
not sufficient evidence to prove that the offender did not intend to perform.
      DISABLED PERSON. A person who suffers from a physical or mental
impairment resulting from disease, injury, functional disorder, or congenital
condition which renders such person incapable of avoiding or preventing the
commission of an offense.
      ELDERLY PERSON. A person 60 years of age or older who is suffering from a
disease or infirmity associated with advanced age and manifested by physical,
mental, or emotional dysfunctioning to the extent that such person is incapable
of avoiding or preventing the commission of the offense.
      INTIMIDATION. The communication to an elderly or disabled person that he
or she will be deprived of food and nutrition, shelter, prescribed medication,
or medical care and treatment.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person stands in a position of trust
and confidence with an elderly or disabled person when such person:
      (1)   Is a parent, spouse, adult child, or other relative by blood or
marriage of the elderly or disabled person;
      (2)   Is a joint tenant or tenant in common with the elderly or disabled
person with knowledge of such relationship;
      (3)   Has a legal or fiduciary relationship with the elderly or disabled
person; or
      (4)   Has a relationship with the elderly or disabled person as a health
care or personal care worker.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the victim pursuant to any state law relating to domestic
violence.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose criminal
liability on a person who has made a good faith effort to assist the elderly or
disabled person in the management of his or her property but, through no fault
of his or her own, has been unable to provide such assistance.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall limit the ability to engage in bona fide
estate planning, to transfer property, and to otherwise seek to reduce estate
and inheritance taxes, provided that such actions do not adversely impact the
standard of living to which the elderly or disabled person has become
accustomed at the time of such actions.
   (G)   It shall not be a defense to financial exploitation of an elderly or
disabled person that the accused reasonably believed that the victim was not an
elderly or disabled person.
(Prior Code, § 210.375) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.29 FRAUDULENT USE OF A CREDIT OR DEBIT DEVICE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of fraudulent use of a credit device or
debit device if the person uses a credit device or debit device for the purpose
of obtaining services or property knowing that:
      (1)   The device is stolen, fictitious, or forged;
      (2)   The device has been revoked or canceled;
      (3)   For any other reason his or her use of the device is unauthorized;
or
      (4)   (a)   Uses a credit device or debit device for the purpose of
paying property taxes and knowingly cancels said charges or payment without
just cause.
         (b)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section
if a person cancels said charges or payment after obtaining a property tax
receipt to obtain license tags from the state’s Department of Revenue.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.380) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.30 DECEPTIVE BUSINESS PRACTICE.
   A person commits the offense of deceptive business practice if, in the
course of engaging in a business, occupation, or profession, he or she
recklessly:
   (A)   Uses or possesses for use a false weight or measure or any other
device for falsely determining or recording any quality or quantity;
   (B)   Sells, offers, or exposes for sale or delivers less than the
represented quantity of any commodity or service;
   (C)   Takes or attempts to take more than the represented quantity of any
commodity or service when as buyer he or she furnishes the weight or measure;
   (D)   Sells, offers, or exposes for sale adulterated or mislabeled
commodities; or
   (E)   Makes a false or misleading written statement for the purpose of
obtaining property or credit.
(Prior Code, § 210.390) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.31 ALTERATION OR REMOVAL OF ITEM NUMBERS WITH INTENT TO DEPRIVE LAWFUL
OWNER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of alteration or removal of item numbers
if he or she with the purpose of depriving the owner of a lawful interest
therein:
      (1)   Destroys, removes, covers, conceals, alters, defaces, or causes to
be destroyed, removed, covered, concealed, altered, or defaced the
manufacturer’s original serial number or other distinguishing owner-applied
number or mark on any item which bears a serial number attached by the
manufacturer or distinguishing number or mark applied by the owner of the item
for any reason whatsoever;
      (2)   Sells, offers for sale, pawns, or uses as security for a loan any
item on which the manufacturer’s original serial number or other distinguishing
owner-applied number or mark has been destroyed, removed, covered, concealed,
altered, or defaced; or
      (3)   Buys, receives as security for a loan or in pawn, or in any manner
receives or has in his or her possession any item on which the manufacturer’s
original serial number or other distinguishing owner-applied number or mark has
been destroyed, removed, covered, concealed, altered, or defaced.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.400) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.32 FAILURE TO RETURN RENTED PERSONAL PROPERTY; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE;
VENUE.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of failing to return leased or
rented property if, with the intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she
purposefully fails to return leased or rented personal property to the place
and within the time specified in an agreement, in writing, providing for the
leasing or renting of such personal property. In addition, any person who has
leased or rented personal property of another who conceals the property from
the owner or who otherwise sells, pawns, loans, abandons, or gives away the
leased or rented property is guilty of the offense of failing to return leased
or rented property. The provisions of this section shall apply to all forms of
leasing and rental agreements including, but not limited to, contracts which
provide the consumer options to buy the leased or rented personal property,
lease-purchase agreements, and rent-to-own contracts. For the purpose of
determining if a violation of this section has occurred, leasing contracts
which provide options to buy the merchandise are owned by the owner of the
property until such time as the owner endorses the sale and transfer of
ownership of the leased property to the lessee.
      (2)   It shall be prima facie evidence of the offense of failing to
return leased or rented property when a person who has leased or rented
personal property of another willfully fails to return or make arrangements
acceptable with the lessor to return the personal property to its owner at the
owner’s place of business within ten days after proper notice following the
expiration of the lease or rental agreement, except that if the motor vehicle
has not been returned within 72 hours after the expiration of the lease or
rental agreement, such failure to return the motor vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence of the intent of the offense of failing to return leased or rented
property. Where the leased or rented property is a motor vehicle, if the motor
vehicle has not been returned within 72 hours after the expiration of the lease
or rental agreement, the lessor may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the failure of the lessee to return such motor vehicle, and the local law
enforcement agency shall cause such motor vehicle to be put into any
appropriate state and local computer system listing stolen motor vehicles. Any
law enforcement officer which stops such a motor vehicle may seize the motor
vehicle and notify the lessor that he or she may recover such motor vehicle
after it is photographed and its vehicle identification number is recorded for
evidentiary purposes. Where the leased or rented property is not a motor
vehicle, if such property has not been returned within the ten-day period
prescribed in this division (A)(2), the owner of the property shall report the
failure to return the property to the local law enforcement agency, and such
law enforcement agency may within five days notify the person who leased or
rented the property that such person is in violation of this section, and that
failure to immediately return the property may subject such person to arrest
for the violation.
      (3)   This section shall not apply if such personal property is a vehicle
and such return is made more difficult or expensive by a defect in such vehicle
which renders such vehicle inoperable if the lessee shall notify the lessor of
the location of such vehicle and such defect before the expiration of the lease
or rental agreement or within ten days after proper notice.
      (4)   Proper notice by the lessor shall consist of a written demand
addressed and mailed by certified or registered mail to the lessee at the
address given at the time of making the lease or rental agreement. The notice
shall contain a statement that the failure to return the property may subject
the lessee to criminal prosecution.
      (5)   Any person who has leased or rented personal property of another
who destroys such property so as to avoid returning it to the owner shall be
guilty of property damage pursuant to §
134.02 in addition to being in violation of this section.
      (6)   Venue shall lie in the county where the personal property was
originally rented or leased.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.410)
§ 134.33 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits the offense of passing a bad check when:
         (a)   With purpose to defraud, the person makes, issues, or passes a
check or other similar sight order for the payment of money knowing that it
will not be paid by the drawee; or
         (b)   The person makes, issues, or passes a check or other similar
sight order for the payment of money knowing that there are insufficient funds
in that account and fails to pay the check or sight order within ten days after
receiving actual notice in writing that it has not been paid because of
insufficient funds or credit with the drawee.
      (2)   As used in division (A)(1)(b) above, ACTUAL NOTICE IN WRITING means
notice of the non-payment which is actually received by the defendant. Such
notice may include the service of summons or warrant upon the defendant for the
initiation of the prosecution of the check or checks which are the subject
matter of the prosecution if the summons or warrant contains information of the
ten-day period during which the instrument may be paid and that payment of the
instrument within such ten-day period will result in dismissal of the charges.
The requirement of notice shall also be satisfied for written communications
which are tendered to the defendant and which the defendant refuses to accept.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.420) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.34 SHOPLIFTING; DETENTION OF SUSPECT BY MERCHANT; LIABILITY PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any mercantile place of business in, at, or
from which goods, wares, and merchandise are sold, offered for sale, or
delivered from and sold at retail or wholesale.
      MERCHANDISE. All goods, wares, and merchandise offered for sale or
displayed by a merchant.
      MERCHANT. Any corporation, partnership, association, or person who is
engaged in the business of selling goods, wares, and merchandise in a
mercantile establishment.
      WRONGFUL TAKING. Includes stealing of merchandise or money and any other
wrongful appropriation of merchandise or money.
   (B)   Any merchant, his or her agent, or employee, who has reasonable
grounds or probable cause to believe that a person has committed or is
committing a wrongful taking of merchandise or money from a mercantile
establishment, may detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time for the purpose of investigating whether there has
been a wrongful taking of such merchandise or money. Any such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an unlawful arrest or detention, nor shall it
render the merchant, his or her agent, or employee criminally or civilly liable
to the person so detained.
   (C)   Any person willfully concealing unpurchased merchandise of any
mercantile establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of
such establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such merchandise
with the intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise within
the meaning of division (A) above, and the finding of such unpurchased
merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of such person
shall be evidence of reasonable grounds and probable cause for the detention in
a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time of such person by a
merchant, his or her agent, or employee in order that recovery of such
merchandise may be effected, and any such reasonable detention shall not be
deemed to be unlawful nor render such merchant, his or her agent, or employee
criminally or civilly liable.
(Prior Code, § 210.425)
OFFENSES IN THE CITY PARK
§ 134.45 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS OF CITY PARKS EXCEPT AS TO PERMIT HOLDERS.
   (A)   In all parks and recreational areas in the city, no person shall
occupy or use any park or recreational area or any of the facilities thereof or
cause his or her vehicle to be stopped and parked in any of the areas thereof
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. or unless otherwise approved by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Application for the overnight use of suitable areas in city parks or
recreational areas for campers, motor vehicles, and equipment shall be made in
writing to the Chief of Police on a form provided by the city for said purpose
and which shall set forth the name and residence of the applicant; a
description of his or her motor vehicle, state license number of said vehicle;
and the names of the persons in his or her party showing the period for which
he or she desires said permit. No permit shall be granted until application
therefore has been made.
(Prior Code, § 210.680) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.46 REGULATIONS CONCERNING VEHICLES IN THE CITY PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle of a
size of one ton or more at any time along and across the streets and highways
located in the city park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate or cause to be
driven or operated any motor vehicle upon any portion of the city’s parks,
except upon the roadways or drives in such parks.
(Prior Code, § 210.685) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
135.001   Indecent exposure (sexual misconduct)
   
135.002   Nude dancing in business establishments prohibited
Pornography
   
135.015   Definitions
   
135.016   Promoting pornography
   
135.017   Furnishing pornographic materials to minors
   
135.018   Public display of explicit sexual material
   
135.019   Evidence of pornographic cases
   
135.020   Injunction and declaratory judgments
Alcohol and Drugs
   
135.035   Drinking or possession of open container of alcoholic beverages in
public places prohibited
   
135.036   Possession of marijuana
   
135.037   Possession or control of a controlled substance
   
135.038   Limit on over-the-counter sale of methamphetamine; exceptions
   
135.039   Limitations on the retail sale of methamphetamine precursor drugs
   
135.040   Unlawful use of drug paraphernalia
   
135.041   Inhalation or inducing others to inhale solvent fumes to cause
certain reactions prohibited; exceptions
   
135.042   Inducing, or possession with intent to induce, symptoms by use of
solvents prohibited
   
135.043   Possession or purchase of solvents to aid others in violations
prohibited
Tobacco
   
135.055   Definitions
   
135.056   Unlawful to sell or distribute tobacco products to minors; vending
machine requirements
   
135.057   Minors prohibited from purchase or possession of tobacco;
misrepresentation of age
   
135.058   Retail sales tax license required for sale of tobacco products
   
135.059   Required signs stating violation of state law to sell tobacco to
minors under age 18; display of sign where required
   
135.060   Restrictions on sales of individual packs of cigarettes
   
135.061   Proof of age required; when defense to action for violation is
reasonable reliance on proof; liability
Prostitution
   
135.075   Definitions
   
135.076   Prostitution
   
135.077   Patronizing prostitution
   
135.078   Prostitution and patronizing prostitution; sex of parties no defense
   
135.079   Prostitution houses deemed public nuisances
 
   
135.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 135.001 INDECENT EXPOSURE (SEXUAL MISCONDUCT).
   (A)   A person commits the offense of indecent exposure (sexual misconduct)
if he or she exposes his or her genitals under circumstances in which he or she
knows that his or her conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
   (B)   Urinating in public shall be deemed indecent exposure.
(Prior Code, § 210.480) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.002 NUDE DANCING IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner, operator, proprietor, or managing agent of any business
establishment or anyone using the community center shall not permit any dance,
performance, or exhibition to occur on the premises wherein the dancers,
performers, or exhibitors are nude or partially nude.
   (B)   A dancer, performer, or exhibitor shall be deemed to be nude or
partially nude if either or both of the breasts or the pelvic area or the
buttocks are not covered with opaque clothing.
(Prior Code, § 210.690) Penalty, see §
135.999
PORNOGRAPHY
§ 135.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPLAYS PUBLICLY. Exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or in any fashion
displaying in any location, whether public or private, an item in such a manner
that it may be readily seen and its content or character distinguishing by
normal unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway, or public sidewalk, or
from the property of others.
   EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL. Any pictorial or three dimensional material
depicting human masturbation, deviate sexual intercourse, sexual intercourse,
direct physical stimulation, or unclothed genitals, sadomasochistic abuse, or
emphasizing the depiction of post-pubertal human genitals, provided however,
that works of art of anthropological significance shall not be deemed to be
within the foregoing definition.
   FURNISH. To issue, sell, give, provide, lend, mail, deliver, transfer,
circulate, disseminate, present, exhibit, or otherwise provide.
   MATERIAL. Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture film, videotape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation, or any recording or transcription, or any mechanical, chemical,
or electrical reproduction, or stored computer data, or anything which is or
may be used as a means of communication. MATERIAL includes undeveloped
photographs, molds, printing plates, stored computer data, and other latent
representational objects.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing of post-pubertal human genitals or pubic area with less
than a fully opaque covering.
   OBSCENE. Any material or performance is obscene if, taken as a whole:
      (1)   Applying contemporary community standards, its predominant appeal
is to prurient interest in sex;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find the material depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way; and
      (3)   A reasonable person would find the material lacks serious literary,
artistic, political, or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE. Any play, motion picture film, videotape, dance, or exhibition
performed before an audience of one or more.
   PORNOGRAPHIC FOR MINORS. Any material or performance is pornographic for
minors if the following apply:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that the material or performance, taken as a whole, has a tendency
to cater or appeal to a prurient interest of minors;
      (2)   The material or performance depicts or describes nudity, sexual
conduct, sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse in a way which is patently
offensive to the average person applying contemporary adult community standards
with respect to what is suitable for minors; and
      (3)   The material or performance, taken as a whole, lacks serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
   PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, provide, mail, deliver, transfer,
transmute, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, present, exhibit, or
advertise, or to offer or agree to do the same, by any means including a
computer.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person as an act
of sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Actual or simulated, normal or perverted acts of human
masturbation; deviate sexual intercourse; sexual intercourse; or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or
the breast of a female in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification; or any sadomasochistic abuse or acts including animals or any
latent objects in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   WHOLESALE PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, provide, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmute, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, or to offer
or agree to do the same for purposes of resale.
(Prior Code, § 210.490)
§ 135.016 PROMOTING PORNOGRAPHY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of promoting pornography for minors or
obscenity if, knowing its content or character, he or she:
      (1)   Promotes or possesses with the purpose to promote any obscene
materials for pecuniary gain;
      (2)   Produces, presents, directs, or participates in any obscene
performance for pecuniary gain;
      (3)   Promotes or possesses with the purpose to promote any material
pornographic for minors for pecuniary gain;
      (4)   Produces, presents, directs, or participates in any performance
pornographic for minors for pecuniary gain; or
      (5)   Promotes, possesses with the purpose to promote, produces,
presents, directs, or participates in any performance that is pornographic for
minors via computer, electronic transfer, internet, or computer network if the
person made the matter available to a specific individual known by the
defendant to be a minor.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.495) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.017 FURNISHING PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIALS TO MINORS.
   A person commits the offense of furnishing pornographic material to minors
if, knowing its content and character, he or she:
   (A)   Furnishes any material pornographic for minors knowing that the person
to whom it is furnished is a minor or acting in reckless disregard of the
likelihood that such person is a minor;
   (B)   Produces, presents, directs, or participates in any performance
pornographic for minors that is furnished to a minor knowing that any person
viewing such performance is a minor or acting in reckless disregard of the
likelihood that a minor is viewing the performance; or
   (C)   Furnishes, produces, presents, directs, participates in any
performance, or otherwise makes available material that is pornographic for
minors via computer, electronic transfer, internet, or computer network if the
person made the matter available to a specific individual known by the
defendant to be a minor.
(Prior Code, § 210.500) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.018 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL.
   A person commits the offense of public display of explicit sexual material
if he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Displays public explicit sexual material; or
   (B)   Fails to take prompt action to remove such a display from property in
his or her possession after learning of its existence.
(Prior Code, § 210.503) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.019 EVIDENCE OF PORNOGRAPHIC CASES.
   (A)   In any prosecution under this subchapter, evidence shall be admissible
to show:
      (1)   What the predominant appeal of the material or performance would be
for ordinary adults or minors;
      (2)   The literary, artistic, political, or scientific value of the
material or performance;
      (3)   The degree of public acceptance in this state and in the local
community;
      (4)   The appeal to prurient interest in advertising or other promotion
of the material or performance; and
      (5)   The purpose of the author, creator, promoter, furnisher, or
publisher of the material or performance.
   (B)   Testimony of the author, creator, promoter, furnisher, publisher, or
expert testimony relation to factors entering into the determination of the
issues of pornography shall be admissible.
(Prior Code, § 210.505) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.020 INJUNCTION AND DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever material or a performance is being or is about to be
promoted, furnished, or displayed in violation of §§
135.017,
135.018, or
135.019, a civil action may be instituted in the Circuit Court by the City
Attorney against any person violating or about to violate those sections in
order to obtain a declaration that the promotion, furnishing, or display of
such material or performance is prohibited. Such an action may also seek an
injunction appropriately restraining promotion, furnishing, or display.
   (B)   Any action brought under this section may be brought only in the
Circuit Court of the county in which such person resides, or where the
promotion, furnishing, or displaying is taking place or is about to take place.
   (C)   Any promoter, furnisher, or displayer of, or a person who is about to
be a promoter, furnisher, or displayer of, the material or performance involved
may intervene as of right as a party defendant in the proceedings.
   (D)   The trial court and the Appellate Court shall give expedited
consideration to actions and appeals brought under this section. The defendant
shall be entitled to a trial of the issues within one day after joinder of
issue and a decision shall be rendered by the court within two days of the
conclusion of the trial. No restraining order or injunction of any kind shall
be issued restraining the promotion, furnishing, or display of any material or
performance without prior adversary hearing before the court.
   (E)   A final declaration obtained pursuant to this section may be used to
form the basis for an injunction and for no other purpose.
   (F)   All laws regulating the procedure for obtaining declaratory judgments
or injunctions which are inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall
be inapplicable to proceedings brought pursuant to this section. There shall be
no right to jury trial in any proceedings under this section.
(Prior Code, § 210.510) Penalty, see §
135.999
ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
§ 135.035 DRINKING OR POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN
PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Alcohol for beverages purposes, including alcoholic,
spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquors or combination of
liquors, part of which is spirituous, vinous, or fermented and all preparations
or mixtures for beverages purposes containing in excess of 0.5% by volume
except for non-intoxicating beer as defined herein. All beverages having an
alcohol content of less than 0.5% by volume shall be exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter.
      NON-INTOXICATING BEER. Any beer manufactured from pure hops or pure
extract of hops and pure barley, malt, or other wholesome grains or cereals,
unwholesome yeast, impure water, and free from all harmful substances,
preservatives, and adulterants and having an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not exceeding 3.2% by weight.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare,
or other public way of the city, any public building, establishment, school,
business, or parking lot generally opened to the public. PUBLIC PLACE will not
include the inside of an establishment licensed to sell intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer, or a place allowed under this section. The inside of the
city’s Community Building shall not be considered a public place for purposes
of prosecution under this section.
   (B)   No person shall drink or ingest any intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer in or on any public place.
   (C)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any unsealed
glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while in or upon any public place.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
unsealed glass, bottle, can, or other open container or any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while within or on any motor
vehicle while the same is being operated upon or parked or standing in or upon
any public place.
      (2)   Any person operating a motor vehicle shall be deemed to be in
possession of an open container contained within the motor vehicle he or she
has control of whether or not he or she has actual physical possession of the
open container.
   (E)   For the purposes of prosecution under this section, contents in a
manufactured container describing that there is intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer therein need not be tested to verify that there is
intoxicating liquor in such container. The alleged violator may allege that
there was not intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer in such container
but the burden of proof of such allegation is on such person as it shall be
presumed that such container describing that there is intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer therein contains intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer.
   (F)   Consumption of intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer, as well
as possession of open containers of said beverages, shall be allowed on a
permit basis at either of the two shelter houses at the city park and permitted
in the following rectangular area surrounding the shelter houses established by
these boundaries: Mount Vernon Street to the north, the swimming pool fence to
the south, and the Park Loop Road east and west. Permit shall be obtained from
City Hall. All permits shall be signed by an adult who will be held responsible
for the actions of anyone consuming intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer under the permit. All permits shall be accompanied by a $5 fee and shall
run concurrently with the reservation of the shelter house and shall be for no
more than one day. Possession of a permit does not allow the permit holder or
any member of his or her party to violate any local, state, or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 210.515) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.036 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Except as authorized by RSMo. §§ 195.005 to 195.418, it is unlawful
for any person to possess or have under his or her control marijuana, as
defined in RSMo. § 195.010.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.520) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.037 POSSESSION OR CONTROL OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   Except as authorized by RSMo. §§ 195.005 to 195.418, it is unlawful
for any person to possess or have under his or her control a controlled
substance, as defined by RSMo. § 195.010.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.530) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.038 LIMIT ON OVER-THE-COUNTER SALE OF METHAMPHETAMINE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall deliver in any single over-the-counter sale more than
three packages of any methamphetamine precursor drug or any combination of
methamphetamine precursor drugs.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any product labeled pursuant to
federal regulation for use only in children under 12 years of age or to any
products that the state’s Department of Health and Senior Services, upon
application of a manufacturer, exempts by rule from this section because the
product has been formulated in such a way as to effectively prevent the
conversion of the active ingredient into metliamphetamine, or its salts or
precursors.
   (C)   Any person who is considered the general owner or operator of the
outlet where ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine products are
available for sale who violates division (A) above shall not be penalized
pursuant to this section if such person documents that an employee training
program was in place to provide the employee with information on the state and
federal regulations regarding ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine.
(Prior Code, § 210.532) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.039 LIMITATIONS ON THE RETAIL SALE OF METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUGS.
   (A)   The retail sale of methamphetamine precursor drugs shall be limited
to:
      (1)   Sales in packages containing not more than a total of three grams
of one or more methamphetamine precursor drugs calculated in terms of ephedrine
base, pseudoephedrine base, and phenylpropanolamine base; and
      (2)   For non-liquid products, sales in blister packs, each blister
containing not more than two dosage units, or where the use of blister packs is
technically infeasible, sales in unit dose packets or pouches.
   (B)   Any person holding a retail sales license pursuant to RSMo. Chapter
144 who knowingly violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who is considered the general owner or operator of the
outlet where ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine products are
available for sale who violates division (A) above shall not be penalized
pursuant to this section if such person documents that an employee training
program was in place to provide the employee with information on the state and
federal regulations regarding ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine.
(Prior Code, § 210.535) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.040 UNLAWFUL USE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use or to possess with intent to use
drug paraphernalia, as defined by RSMo. § 195.010, to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance, as
defined by RSMo. § 195.010, or an imitation controlled substance, as defined by
RSMo. § 195.010, in violation of RSMo. §§ 195.005 to 195.418.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.540) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.041 INHALATION OR INDUCING OTHERS TO INHALE SOLVENT FUMES TO CAUSE
CERTAIN REACTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any solvent,
particularly toluol, or induce any other person to do so for the purpose of
causing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of, intoxication, elation,
euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration, paralysis,
stupefaction, or dulling of senses or nervous system or for the purpose of, in
any manner, changing, distorting, or disturbing the audio, visual, or mental
processes; except that this section shall not apply to the inhalation of any
anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 210.550) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.042 INDUCING, OR POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO INDUCE, SYMPTOMS BY USE OF
SOLVENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally or willfully induce the symptoms of
intoxication, elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior,
exhilaration, paralysis, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses or nervous
system, distortion of audio, visual, or mental processes by the use of any
solvent, particularly toluol.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally possess any solvent, particularly
toluol, for the purpose of using it in the manner prohibited by §
135.041 and this section.
(Prior Code, § 210.560) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.043 POSSESSION OR PURCHASE OF SOLVENTS TO AID OTHERS IN VIOLATIONS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally possess or buy any solvent, particularly
toluol, for the purpose of inducing or aiding any other person to violate the
provisions of §§
135.041 and
135.042 hereof. Any person who violates any provision of §§
135.041 to
135.042 and this section is guilty of an ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 210.570)
TOBACCO
§ 135.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. A conveyance to the public by sale, barter, gift, or sample.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license or other generally accepted means of
identification that contains a picture of the individual and appears on its
face to be valid.
   ROLLING PAPERS. Paper designed, manufactured, marketed, or sold for use
primarily as a wrapping or enclosure for tobacco which enables a person to roll
loose tobacco into a smokeable cigarette.
   SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the general public at no
cost or at nominal cost for product promotional purposes.
   SAMPLING. The distribution to members of the general public of tobacco
product samples.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
dipping tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric, or electronic self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens, or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 210.610)
§ 135.056 UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR DISTRIBUTE TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS; VENDING
MACHINE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, provide, or distribute
tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age.
   (B)   All vending machines that dispense tobacco products shall be located
within the unobstructed line of sight and under the direct supervision of an
adult responsible for preventing persons less than 18 years of age from
purchasing any tobacco product from such machine or shall be equipped with a
lock-out device to prevent the machines from being operated until the person
responsible for monitoring sales from the machines disables the lock. Such
locking device shall be of a design that prevents it from being left in an
unlocked condition and which will allow only a single sale when activated. A
locking device shall not be required on machines that are located in areas
where persons less than 18 years of age are not permitted or prohibited by law.
An owner of an establishment whose vending machine is not in compliance with
the provisions of this division (B) shall be subject to the penalties contained
in division (E) below. A determination of non-compliance may be made by a local
law enforcement agency or the Division of Liquor Control. Nothing in this
section shall apply to a vending machine if located in a factory, private club,
or other location not generally accessible to the general public.
   (C)   No person or entity shall sell, provide, or distribute any tobacco
product or rolling papers to any minor or sell any individual cigarettes to any
person in this state. This division (C) shall not apply to the distribution by
family members on property that is not open to the public.
   (D)   Any person, including, but not limited to, a sales clerk, owner, or
operator who violates divisions (A), (B), or (C) above or §
135.059 shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, $25;
      (2)   For the second offense, $100; and
      (3)   For a third and subsequent offense, $250.
   (E)   Any owner of the establishment where tobacco products are available
for sale who violates division (C) above shall not be penalized pursuant to
this section if such person documents the following:
      (1)   An in-house or other tobacco compliance employee training program
was in place to provide the employee with information on the state and federal
regulations regarding tobacco sales to minors. Such training program must be
attended by all employees who sell tobacco products to the general public;
      (2)   A signed statement by the employee stating that the employee has
been trained and understands the state laws and federal regulations regarding
the sale of tobacco to minors; and
      (3)   Such in-house or other tobacco compliance training meets the
minimum training criteria, which shall not exceed a total of 90 minutes in
length, established by the Division of Liquor Control.
   (F)   The exemption in division (E) above shall not apply to any person who
is considered the general owner or operator of the outlet where tobacco
products are available for sale if:
      (1)   Four or more violations per location of division (C) above occur
within a one year period; or
      (2)   Such person knowingly violates or knowingly allows his or her
employees to violate division (C) above.
   (G)   If a sale is made by an employee of the owner of an establishment in
violation of this subchapter, the employee shall be guilty of an offense
established in divisions (A), (B), and (C) above. If a vending machine is in
violation of §
135.059, the owner of the establishment shall be guilty of an offense
established in divisions (C) and (D) above. If a sample is distributed by an
employee of a company conducting the sampling, such employee shall be guilty of
an offense established in divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (H)   A person cited for selling, providing, or distributing any tobacco
product to any individual less than 18 years of age in violation of divisions
(A), (B), or (C) above shall conclusively be presumed to have reasonably relied
on proof of age of the purchaser or recipient, and such person shall not be
found guilty of such violation if such person raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that such individual presented a driver’s license or other
government-issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was 18 years of age or older.
   (I)   Any person adversely affected by this section may file an appeal with
the Administrative Hearing Commission which shall be adjudicated pursuant to
the procedures established in RSMo. Chapter 621.
(Prior Code, § 210.620) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.057 MINORS PROHIBITED FROM PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO;
MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   No person less than 18 years of age shall purchase, attempt to
purchase, or possess cigarettes or other tobacco products unless such person is
an employee of a seller of cigarettes or tobacco products and is in such
possession to effect a sale in the course of employment, or an employee of the
Division of Liquor Control for enforcement purposes pursuant to RSMo. § 407.934
(5).
   (B)   Any person less than 18 years of age shall not misrepresent his or her
age to purchase cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 210.630) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.058 RETAIL SALES TAX LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   No person shall sell cigarettes or tobacco products unless the person has a
retail sales tax license.
(Prior Code, § 210.640) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.059 REQUIRED SIGNS STATING VIOLATION OF STATE LAW TO SELL TOBACCO TO
MINORS UNDER AGE 18; DISPLAY OF SIGN WHERE REQUIRED.
   The owner of an establishment at which tobacco products or rolling papers
are sold at retail or through vending machines shall cause to be prominently
displayed in a conspicuous place at every display from which tobacco products
are sold and on every vending machine where tobacco products are purchased a
sign that shall:
   (A)   Contain in red lettering at least one-half inch high on a white
background the following:
“IT IS A VIOLATION OF STATE LAW FOR CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO BE
SOLD OR OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO ANY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN OR FOR SUCH
PERSON TO PURCHASE, ATTEMPT TO PURCHASE OR POSSESS CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO
PRODUCTS”
   (B)   Include a depiction of a pack of cigarettes at least two inches high
defaced by a red diagonal diameter of a surrounding red circle and the words
“Under 18”.
(Prior Code, § 210.650) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.060 RESTRICTIONS ON SALES OF INDIVIDUAL PACKS OF CIGARETTES.
   No person or entity shall sell individual packs of cigarettes or smokeless
tobacco products unless such packs satisfy one of the following conditions
prior to the time of sale:
   (A)   It is sold through a vending machine; or
   (B)   It is displayed behind the checkout counter or it is within the
unobstructed line of sight of the sales clerk or store attendant from the
checkout counter.
(Prior Code, § 210.660) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.061 PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED; WHEN DEFENSE TO ACTION FOR VIOLATION IS
REASONABLE RELIANCE ON PROOF; LIABILITY.
   (A)   A person or entity selling tobacco products or rolling papers or
distributing tobacco product samples shall require proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that such prospective purchaser or recipient may be under
the age of 18.
   (B)   The operator’s or chauffeur’s license issued pursuant to the
provisions of RSMo. § 302.177, or the operator’s or chauffeur’s license issued
pursuant to the laws of any state or possession of the United States to
residents of those states or possessions, or an identification card as provided
for in RSMo. § 302.181, or the identification card issued by any uniformed
service of the United States, or a valid passport shall be presented by the
holder thereof upon request of any agent of the Division of Liquor Control or
any owner or employee of an establishment that sells tobacco for the purpose of
aiding the registrant, agent, or employee to determine whether or not the
person is at least 18 years of age when such person desires to purchase or
possess tobacco products procured from a registrant. Upon such presentation,
the owner or employee of the establishment shall compare the photograph and
physical characteristics noted on the license, identification card, or passport
with the physical characteristics of the person presenting the license,
identification card, or passport.
   (C)   Any person who shall, without authorization from the Department of
Revenue, reproduce, alter, modify, or misrepresent any chauffeur’s license,
motor vehicle operator’s license, or identification card shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 and confinement for not more than one year, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   (D)   (1)   Reasonable reliance on proof of age or on the appearance of the
purchaser or recipient shall be a defense to any action for a violation of
divisions (A), (B), and (C) of §
135.056.
      (2)   No person shall be liable for more than one violation of divisions
(B) and (C) of §
135.056 on any single day.
(Prior Code, § 210.670)
PROSTITUTION
§ 135.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PATRONIZING PROSTITUTION. A person patronizes prostitution if:
      (1)   Pursuant to a prior understanding, he or she gives something of
value to another person as compensation for that person or a third person
having engaged in sexual conduct with him or her or with another;
      (2)   He or she gives or agrees to give something of value to another
person on an understanding that in return therefor that person or a third
person will engage in sexual conduct with him or her or with another; or
      (3)   He or she solicits or requests another person to engage in sexual
conduct with him or her or with another, or to secure a third person to engage
in sexual conduct with him or her or with another, in return for something of
value.
   PROSTITUTION. A person commits PROSTITUTION if he or she engages or offers
or agrees to engage in sexual conduct with another person in return for
something of value to be received by the person or by a third person.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Occurs when there is:
      (1)   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Any penetration, however slight, of the female
sex organ by the male sex organ, whether or not an emission results;
      (2)   DEVIATE SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Any sexual act involving the genitals
of one person and the mouth, hand, tongue, or anus of another person; or
      (3)   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching, manual or otherwise, of the anus or
genitals of one person by another, done for the purpose of arousing or
gratifying sexual desire of either party.
   SOMETHING OF VALUE. Money or property or any token, object, or article
exchangeable for money or property.
(Prior Code, § 210.430)
§ 135.076 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of prostitution if the person performs an
act of prostitution.
   (B)   Under certain circumstances, this offense can be a felony under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 210.440) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.077 PATRONIZING PROSTITUTION.
   A person commits the offense of patronizing prostitution if he or she
patronizes prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 210.450) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.078 PROSTITUTION AND PATRONIZING PROSTITUTION; SEX OF PARTIES NO DEFENSE.
   In any prosecution for prostitution or patronizing a prostitute, the sex of
the two parties or prospective parties to the sexual conduct engaged in,
contemplated, or solicited is immaterial, and it is no defense that:
   (A)   Both persons were of the same sex; or
   (B)   The person who received, agreed to receive, or solicited something of
value was a male and the person who gave or agreed or offered to give something
of value was a female.
(Prior Code, § 210.460) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.079 PROSTITUTION HOUSES DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any room, building, or other structure regularly used for sexual
contact for pay, as defined in §
135.075, or any unlawful prostitution activity prohibited by this subchapter is
a public nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   The City Prosecuting Attorney may, in addition to all other
sanctions, prosecute a suit in equity to enjoin the nuisance.
      (2)   If the court finds that the owner of the room, building, or
structure knew or had reason to believe that the premises were being used
regularly for sexual contact for pay or unlawful prostitution activity, the
court may order that the premises shall not be occupied or used for such period
as the court may determine, not to exceed one year.
   (C)   All persons, including owners, lessees, officers, agents, inmates, or
employees, aiding or facilitating such a nuisance may be made defendants in any
suit to enjoin the nuisance, and they may be enjoined from engaging in any
sexual contact for pay or unlawful prostitution activity anywhere within the
jurisdiction of the court.
   (D)   Appeals shall be allowed from the judgment of the court as in other
civil actions.
(Prior Code, § 210.470) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
135.035 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by
imprisonment in jail not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Minimum fine for the first violation shall be a fine of no less
than $75. Minimum fine for any repeat violation shall be a fine of no less than
$150.
(Prior Code, § 210.515)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
135.057 shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, the person is guilty of an infraction and
shall have any cigarettes or tobacco products confiscated; and
      (2)   For a second violation and any subsequent violations, the person is
guilty of an infraction, shall have any cigarettes or tobacco products
confiscated, and shall complete a tobacco education or smoking cessation
program, if available.
(Prior Code, § 210.630)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Curfew for persons under the age of seventeen
   
136.03   Parental responsibility
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRIMINAL ACT. An act which violates the statutes of the United States, the
statutes of the state, or the ordinances of the city, including curfew and
moving traffic violations.
   GUARDIAN. Guardian appointed by court of competent jurisdiction.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 17.
   PARENT. The natural father or mother, or the adoptive father or mother.
   PARENTAL NEGLECT. Any act or omission by which a parent fails to exercise
customary and effective control over a minor so as to contribute to, cause, or
tend to cause a minor to commit any criminal act.
(Prior Code, § 210.580)
§ 136.02 CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF SEVENTEEN.
   (A)   Generally. No person under the age of 17 years shall be in any
automobile or in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   Responsibility of parent. It shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian, or other person having the legal care and custody or who has accepted
responsibility for the care and custody of a person under the age of 17 years
to knowingly, or with reason to know, permit such minor to violate the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Procedure upon violation.
      (1)   Any police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of this
section, shall determine the name and address of such minor and warn the minor
that he or she is in violation of the curfew established herein and shall
direct the minor to proceed at once to his or her home or usual place of abode.
The police officer will notify, in writing, the parent, guardian, or person
having the legal care and custody or who has accepted the responsibility for
the care and custody of such minor of the violation.
      (2)   If the minor refuses to obey the directions of the police officer
or refuses to give his or her correct name and address, or if the minor has
previously been warned that he or she is in violation of the curfew established
herein, the minor shall be taken to the Police Department and the parent,
guardian, or other person having the legal care and custody or who has accepted
responsibility for the care and custody of the minor shall be notified to come
and take charge of the minor. If the parent, guardian, or other person having
the legal care and custody or who has accepted responsibility for the care and
custody of the minor cannot be located or fails to come and take charge of the
minor, then the minor shall be released to the juvenile authority, if possible,
and, if not possible due to the unavailability of the juvenile authorities,
shall be escorted home by the police officer.
   (D)   Service of notice. Notice of a violation of a curfew established
herein shall be given, in writing, to the parent, guardian, or other person
having the legal care and custody or who has accepted responsibility for the
care and custody of the minor. The written notice of the violation may be
served by leaving a copy thereof at the residence of such person with any adult
person found at such residence or by mailing the notice to the last known
address of such person or wherever such person may be found.
   (E)   Exceptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (F)   Definitions. As used herein, MINOR means any person under 17 years of
age and ADULT means any person 21 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 210.590) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained for the commission of
any criminal act within the city, the Police Department shall, as soon as
possible thereafter, deliver written notice to the minor’s parent of the arrest
or detention, and such notice shall advise the parent of his or her
responsibility under this section. The notice shall be in such a form as to be
signed by the notified parent signifying receipt thereof. If the parent refuses
to sign said notice, the notifying police officer shall indicate such refusal
on the notice.
   (B)   No parent shall fail to exercise customary and effective control over
a minor so as to contribute to, cause, or tend to cause a minor to commit any
criminal act. Written parental notice, as defined in division (A) above, shall
be prima facie evidence of parental neglect if the minor commits a second or
successive violation of any criminal act.
   (C)   Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition to any fine as specified in §
10.99, the court may, as a condition of any probation granted to any parent
found guilty of violating division (B) above, order the defendant to make
restitution to any person who has been damaged by the misconduct of the minor
in an amount not to exceed $2,000.
(Prior Code, § 210.600) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person under the age of 17 years who has violated the curfew
established in §
136.02 more than one time shall be reported by the police to the juvenile
authorities and shall be dealt with in accordance with the juvenile law and
procedure.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian, or other person having the legal care and
custody or who has accepted the responsibility for the care and custody of a
minor who knowingly or with reason to know permits said child to violate the
curfew established herein after receiving notice of the first violation, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of an ordinance violation.
      (3)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall upon
conviction be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment in jail
not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 210.590)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
153.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
150.01   Composition; terms; vacancy; removal
   
150.02   Compensation
   
150.03   Officers
   
150.04   Meetings; rules; records
   
150.05   Expenditures
   
150.06   Duty of public officials to furnish
   
150.07   General powers
Green Community Program
   
150.20   Establishment of Green Community Program
   
150.21   Future additions to program
   
150.22   Confirmation of prior acts
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 150.01 COMPOSITION; TERMS; VACANCY; REMOVAL.
   There is hereby established within and for the city a Planning and Zoning
Commission which shall consist of not more than 15 nor less than seven members,
including the Mayor, if the Mayor chooses to be a member; a member of the Board
of Aldermen selected by the Board, if the Board chooses to have a member serve
on the Commission; and not more than 15 nor less than five citizens appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the Board of Aldermen. The term of each of the
citizen members shall be for four years, except that the terms of the citizen
members first appointed shall be for varying periods so that succeeding terms
will be staggered. Any vacancy in a membership shall be filled for the
unexpired term by appointment as aforesaid. The Board of Aldermen may remove
any citizen member for cause stated in writing and after public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 400.010)
§ 150.02 COMPENSATION.
   All citizen members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 400.020)
§ 150.03 OFFICERS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Secretary
from among the citizen members. The term of the Chairperson and Secretary shall
be for one year with eligibility for reelection.
(Prior Code, § 400.030)
§ 150.04 MEETINGS; RULES; RECORDS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold regular meetings and special
meetings as they provide by rule, and shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business, and keep a record of its proceedings. These records shall be public
records.
(Prior Code, § 400.040)
§ 150.05 EXPENDITURES.
   The expenditures of the Planning and Zoning Commission, exclusive of grants
and gifts, shall be within amounts appropriated for the purposes of the Board
of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 400.050)
§ 150.06 DUTY OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS TO FURNISH.
   All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, within a reasonable time, all available information it requires for
its works.
(Prior Code, § 400.060)
§ 150.07 GENERAL POWERS.
   In general, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power
necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote city planning. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to perform all of the
functions of the Zoning Commission provided for in RSMo. Chapter 89 and shall
have and perform all of the functions of a Planning Board as outlined in such
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 400.070)
GREEN COMMUNITY PROGRAM
§ 150.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF GREEN COMMUNITY PROGRAM.
   The city hereby establishes the city’s Green Community Program (the
“Program”) as a Green Community Program within the meaning of § 54D of the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Internal Revenue Code. The
Program shall include, but not be limited to, the projects and programs listed
below:
   (A)   Area of operation. The Program shall operate within the city, the
entirety of which is hereby designated the “Pilot Grove, Missouri, Green
Community.”
   (B)   Energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
      (1)   Improvements to building envelopes of buildings and facilities
within the city to reduce heat loss and gain by installing better insulation,
replacing inefficient windows, and installing reflective roofing.
      (2)   Improvements to buildings within the city and related facility
mechanical systems achieved by replacing air handlers, chillers, boilers, and
accessory systems with high efficiency designs and equipment.
      (3)   Electrical system improvements to buildings and facilities within
the city through the use of more efficient lighting and lighting controls.
      (4)   Installation of biomass heating systems in buildings and facilities
within the city.
      (5)   Installation of solar electrical and solar heating systems in
buildings and facilities within the city.
   (C)   Land use programs.
      (1)   Conversion of agriculturally marginal open space lands from active
farming to native grasses to increase carbon sequestration, reduce greenhouse
gas emissions, and reduce energy required for management.
      (2)   Support of bio-fuel technologies including, without limitation,
planting of sunflower seed crops to be used in bio-fuel production.
      (3)   Support of biomass energy production programs and projects,
including, without limitation, promotion of forestry practices that provide
chipped wood as required for biomass boiler heating systems.
   (D)   Funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy improvements to
privately owned properties. Financing of loans and grants to owners of
residential, commercial, and other properties located in the city for energy
efficiency and renewable energy improvements to such properties.
   (E)   Additional projects and programs. Any other project or program not
included in the foregoing which is now or hereafter permitted to be financed
with proceeds of QECBs.
   (F)   Approvals required. All projects and programs proposed to be financed
with proceeds of QECBs pursuant to this subchapter must be approved by this
Council and by the Board prior to the use or disbursement of bond proceeds on
such project or program.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 150.21 FUTURE ADDITIONS TO PROGRAM.
   The projects and programs listed in §
150.20 hereof are not intended to represent an exhaustive description of the
potential projects and programs to be included in the Program. The Council
intends and expects that additional projects and programs will be added to the
Program by future ordinances as such projects and programs are developed.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 150.22 CONFIRMATION OF PRIOR ACTS.
   All actions not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter
heretofore taken by this Commission and the officers and employees of the city
are hereby ratified, approved, and confirmed.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Earthquake and seismic design requirements
   
151.02   Buildings to be numbered
   
151.03   Building in relation to property lines
   
151.04   Building inspections
Adoption of Codes
   
151.15   Adoption of Building Code
   
151.16   Adoption of International Building Code
   
151.17   Amendments to the International Building Code; fees
   
151.18   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
151.19   Adoption of Mechanical Code
   
151.20   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
151.21   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 EARTHQUAKE AND SEISMIC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction in the city shall comply with the requirements of RSMo. §§
319.200 through 319.207 and any amendments thereto relating to earthquakes and
seismic construction requirements.
(Prior Code, § 500.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 BUILDINGS TO BE NUMBERED.
   Every building of any description whatever, fronting on any street or upon
any lot or fractional lot in the city shall be numbered. All owners of property
shall have their premises plainly numbered and have the same visible from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 500.015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 BUILDING IN RELATION TO PROPERTY LINES.
   No person shall construct a residence or accessory building or structure to
the residence in such a manner that any part or portion shall be closer than
five feet from any adjoining property line.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-9-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect or
to cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers or members, as often as
may be necessary but not less than two times a year, all buildings, premises,
and public thoroughfares, except private dwellings, for the purpose of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire. A
written report of every such inspection shall be filed with the City Clerk by
the inspector.
   (B)   Whenever any officer or member shall find in any building or upon any
premises or other place combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of waste paper, boxes,
shavings, or any other highly inflammable materials especially liable to cause
fire, and which is not situated as to endanger property, or shall find
obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, windows liable
to interfere with the operations of the Fire Department, or egress of occupants
in case of fire, he or she shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and
such order shall be complied with within 48 hours by the owner or occupant of
such premises or buildings.
(Prior Code, § 500.070)
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 151.15 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the  most recent edition of the , is
hereby adopted as the Building Code for the control of buildings and structures
as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said BOCA National Building Code are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with
the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 500.020) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk marked and designated as the International Building Code, 2022 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the city. This adoption includes the Administrative Code, the
International Energy Conservation Code, the International Fire Code, the
International Gas Code, the International Mechanical Code, and the
International Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 53, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 151.17 AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; FEES.
   (A)   Amendments. The following sections of the International Building Code,
2009 Edition are hereby revised as follows:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Pilot Grove, Missouri
Section 105.2 Work exempt from Permit. Insert: 14. Repair to or the replacement
of roofs, windows, doors, siding, heating and air conditioning systems and all
other appurtenances on existing structures.
Section 109.2.1. Insert: Amount of permit and inspection fees; See Exhibit A
attached.
Section 3412.2. Applicability: Insert date of: February 1, 2010
   (B)   Building permit fees and inspection fees.
      (1)   The application for a building permit shall be accompanied by the
payment of a permit fee for the following types of activity. Inspection fees,
as listed hereafter, are payable upon the completion the particular type of
activity. If additional inspections are required due to nonconformity to codes,
each additional inspection shall cost an additional fee of $50.
Type of Activity Permit Fees Inspection Fees
Type of Activity                                  Permit Fees Inspection Fees
Permit for new home construction                  $35
Inspection fees for foundation, construction,                 5 at $50 each
electrical, plumbing, and final inspection
Permit for the addition of outbuildings, room
additions, enclosures, decks, carports, and the   $35
like, with either plumbing and/or electrical
connections
Inspection fees for construction and final                    2 at $50 each
inspection
Permit for the addition of outbuildings, room
additions, enclosures, decks, carports, and the   $35
like, with either plumbing and/or electrical
connections
Inspection fees for construction with either
electrical or plumbing connections and final                  3 at $50 each
inspection
Permit for the addition of outbuildings, room
additions, decks, patios, carports, and the like, $35
with both electrical and plumbing connections
Inspection fees for construction with both
electrical and plumbing connections plus final                4 at $50 each
inspection
 
      (2)   The allocation of such fees shall be as follows:
 
Type of Fee         Allocation
Building permit fee 100% to the city
Inspection fees     20% to the city
                    80% to the Building Inspector
 
(Ord. 53, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 151.18 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent edition of the ICC
Electrical Code Administrative Provisions, as published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the city, for
the operation or maintenance of buildings, structures, or sites in or on which
electrical wiring, equipment, and/or apparatus has been installed herein
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said ICC Electrical Code are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 500.030) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent edition of the
International Mechanical Code, as published by the International Code Council,
is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the city for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said International
Mechanical Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes, if any, prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 500.040) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent edition of the
International Plumbing Code, as published by the International Code Council is
hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the city, for the control of buildings
and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said International Plumbing
Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if
any, prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 500.050) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The provisions of the BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, 2000
Edition, as modified, is hereby adopted as the city’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent edition of the
BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, as published by the BOCA International,
Building Officials, and Code Administrators International, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the Fire Prevention Code of the city for the control of buildings
and structures as herein provided; and each and all the regulations of the Fire
Prevention Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 500.055) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.15 or the Building Code adopted in this section shall be deemed guilty of
an ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the city jail for a period not
exceeding 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 500.020)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.18 or the National Electrical Code adopted in this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount
not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the city jail for a period not exceeding
90 days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 500.030)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.19 or the Mechanical Code adopted in §
151.19 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the city
jail for a period not exceeding 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 500.040)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.20 or the Plumbing Code adopted in §
151.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the city or
county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 500.050)
   (F)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
151.21 or the Fire Prevention Code adopted in §
151.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the city or
county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days or both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 500.055)
CHAPTER 152: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and scope
   
152.02   Dangerous building defined
   
152.03   Dangerous buildings declared nuisance
   
152.04   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
152.05   Building Inspector
   
152.06   Duties of Building Inspector; procedure and notice
   
152.07   Building Commissioner
   
152.08   Duties of the Building Commissioner
   
152.09   Insurance proceeds; how handled
   
152.10   Appeal
   
152.11   Emergencies
   
152.12   Violations; disregarding notices or orders
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable, and
practicable method for the repairing, vacation, or demolition of buildings or
structures that may endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety, or
welfare of the occupants of such buildings or the general public, and this
chapter shall apply to all dangerous buildings, as herein defined, that now are
in existence or that may hereafter exist in the city.
(Prior Code, § 505.010)
§ 152.02 DANGEROUS BUILDING DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures that are detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the residents of the city and that have any or all of the following
defects shall be deemed “dangerous buildings”:
   (A)   Those with interior walls or other vertical structural members that
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those that, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more damage or
deterioration of the supporting member or members or 50% damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those that have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs,
or in which the same are overloaded, or that have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those that have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to
become dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those that are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or that so
utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are
unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as
to work injury to the health, safety, or welfare of those occupying such
building;
   (F)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are inadequate
to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings who live or
may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other
adequate means of evacuation;
   (H)   Those that have parts thereof that are so attached that they may fall
and injure members of the public or property; and/or
   (I)   Those that because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of this city.
(Prior Code, § 505.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All dangerous buildings or structures, as defined by §
152.02, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 505.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector and the Building Commissioner in ordering repair, vacation, or
demolition of any dangerous building.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it no
longer will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered
to be vacated and repaired.
   (C)   In all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it no longer
will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be demolished.
   (D)   In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or
erected in violation of the terms of this chapter or any ordinance of this city
or statute of the state, it shall be repaired or demolished.
(Prior Code, § 505.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Chief of Police or Fire Chief in his or her absence shall be the
Building Inspectors within the meaning of this chapter. The city is currently
under contract with the City of Boonville for the services of their Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 505.050) (Ord. 53, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 102, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 152.06 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; PROCEDURE AND NOTICE.
   The Building Inspector(s) shall have the duty under this chapter to:
   (A)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as may be necessary, all
residential, institutional, assembly, commercial, industrial, garage, special,
or miscellaneous occupancy buildings for the purpose of determining whether any
conditions exist that render such place to be a dangerous building when he or
she has reasonable grounds to believe that any such building is dangerous;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this chapter, and the Building Inspector determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that such building is dangerous;
   (C)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure reported by the Fire or
Police Departments of this city as probably existing in violation of this
chapter;
   (D)   (1)   Notify the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, and all
other persons having an interest in the building or structure, as shown by the
land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, of any building or
structure found by him or her to be a dangerous building or structure within
the standards set forth in §
152.02. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given either by personal
service or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or if service cannot be
had by either of these modes of service, then service may be had by publication
in a newspaper qualified to publish legal notices for two consecutive weeks.
      (2)   The notice required shall state that:
         (a)   The owner must vacate, vacate and repair, or vacate and demolish
said building and clean up the lot or property on which the building is located
in accordance with the terms of the notice and this chapter;
         (b)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession; and
         (c)   The mortgagee, agent, or other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the
county may, at his or her own risk, repair, vacate, or demolish the building
and clean up the property or have such work done.
      (3)   Provided that any person notified under this division (D)(3) to
repair, vacate, or demolish any building or clean up the property shall be
given such reasonable time not exceeding 30 days to commence the required work.
   (E)   The notice provided for in this section shall state a description of
the building or structure deemed dangerous; a statement of the particulars that
make the building or structure a dangerous building; a statement indicating
that, as a dangerous building, said building or structure constitutes a
nuisance; and an order requiring the designated work to be commenced within the
time provided for in division (D) above;
   (F)   Report, in writing, to the city’s Building Commissioner the non-
compliance with any notice to vacate, repair, demolish, clean up the property,
or upon the failure to proceed continuously with the work without unnecessary
delay;
   (G)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Building Commissioner and
testify as to the condition of dangerous buildings; and
   (H)   (1)   (a)   Immediately report to the Building Commissioner concerning
any building found by him or her to be inherently dangerous and that he or she
determined to be a nuisance per se.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner may direct that such building be
marked or posted with a written notice reading substantially as follows:
            “This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the
Building Inspector. This notice is to remain on this building and/or property
until it is repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property is cleaned up in
accordance with the notice that has been given the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, or agent of this building and all other persons having an interest
in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the
county. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is complied
with.”
      (2)   Provided however, that the order by the Building Commissioner and
the posting of said notice shall not be construed to deprive all persons
entitled thereto by this chapter to the notice and hearing prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 505.060)
§ 152.07 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor or his or her designate shall act as Building Commissioner under
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 505.070)
§ 152.08 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the powers and duties, pursuant to this
chapter, to:
   (A)   (1)   Supervise all inspections required by this chapter and cause the
Building Inspector to make inspections and perform all the duties required of
him or her by this chapter.
      (2)   Upon receiving a complaint or report from any source that a
dangerous building exists in the city, the Building Commissioner shall cause an
inspection to be made forthwith.
      (3)   If the Building Commissioner deems it necessary to the performance
of his or her duties and responsibilities imposed herein, the Building
Commissioner may request an inspection and report be made by any other city
department or retain services of an expert whenever the Building Commissioner
deems such service necessary;
   (B)   Upon receipt of a report from the Building Inspector indicating
failure by the owner, lessee, occupant, mortgagee, agent, or other persons(s)
having an interest in said building to commence work of reconditioning or
demolition within the time specified by this chapter or upon failure to proceed
continuously with work without unnecessary delay, hold a hearing giving the
affected parties full and adequate hearing on the matter;
   (C)   Give written notice of said hearing, either by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or if service cannot be had by either
of those modes of service, then by publication in a newspaper qualified to
publish legal notices, at least ten days in advance of the hearing date, to the
owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent, and all other persons having an
interest in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds
of the county, who may appear before the Building Commissioner on the date
specified in the notice to show cause why the building or structure reported to
be a dangerous building should not be repaired, vacated, or demolished in
accordance with the statement of particulars set forth in the Building
Inspector’s notice as provided herein. Any party may be represented by counsel
and all parties shall have an opportunity to be heard;
   (D)   Make written findings of fact from the evidence offered at said
hearing as to whether or not the building in question is a dangerous building
within the terms of §
152.02;
   (E)   If the evidence supports a finding based upon competent and
substantial evidence that the building or structure is a dangerous building and
a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the residents
of the city, the Building Commissioner shall issue an order based upon its
findings of fact commanding the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent, or
other persons(s) having an interest in said building as shown by the land
records of the Recorder of Deeds of the county to repair, vacate, or demolish
any building found to be a dangerous building and to clean up the property,
provided that any person so notified shall have the privilege of either
repairing or vacating and repairing said building, if such repair will comply
with the ordinances of this city, or may vacate and demolish said dangerous
building at his or her own risk to prevent the acquiring by the city of the
lien against the land where the dangerous building stands. If the evidence does
not support a finding that a building or structure is a dangerous building or a
nuisance or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the residents of
the city, no order shall be issued; and
   (F)   (1)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or lessee fails to comply
with the order within 30 days, the Building Commissioner shall cause such
building or structure to be repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property
cleaned up as the facts may warrant.
      (2)   If the Building Commissioner or other designated officer or
officers issues an order whereby the building or structure is demolished,
secured, or repaired, or the property is cleaned up, the cost of performance
shall be certified to the City Clerk or officer in charge of finance, who shall
cause a special tax bill or assessment therefor against the property to be
prepared and collected by the City Collector or other official collecting
taxes, unless the building or structure is demolished, secured, or repaired by
a contractor pursuant to an order issued by the city and such contractor files
a mechanic’s lien against the property where the dangerous building is located.
      (3)   The contractor may enforce this lien as provided in RSMo. §§
429.010 through 429.360. Except as provided in §
152.09 at the request of the taxpayer the tax bill may be paid in installments
over a period of not more than ten years.
      (4)   The tax bill from the date of its issuance shall be deemed a
personal debt against the property owner and shall also be a lien on the
property until paid. Said tax bill or assessment shall bear interest at a rate
of 8% per annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 505.080)
§ 152.09 INSURANCE PROCEEDS; HOW HANDLED.
   (A)   If there are proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered
claim payment made for damage or loss to a building or other structure caused
by or arising out of any fire, explosion, or other casualty loss, the following
procedure is established for the payment of up to 25% of the insurance
proceeds, as set forth in this division (A). This division (A) shall apply only
to a covered claim payment that is in excess of 50% of the face value of the
policy covering a building or other structure.
      (1)   The insurer shall withhold from the covered claim payment up to 25%
of the covered claim payment and shall pay such monies to the city to deposit
into an interest-bearing account. Any named mortgagee on the insurance policy
shall maintain priority over any obligation under this chapter.
      (2)   The city shall release the proceeds and any interest that has
accrued on such proceeds received under division (A)(1) above to the insured or
as the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto provide within 30 days
after receipt of such insurance monies, unless the city has instituted legal
proceedings under the provisions of §
152.08(F). If the city has proceeded under the provisions of
152.08(F), all monies in excess of that necessary to comply with the provisions
of §
152.08(F) for the removal, securing, repair, and clean up of the building or
structure and the lot on which it is located, less salvage value, shall be paid
to the insured.
   (B)   If there are no proceeds of any insurance policy as set forth in
division (A) above, at the request of the taxpayer, the tax bill may be paid in
installments over a period of not more than ten years. The tax bill from the
date of its issuance shall be a lien on the property and a personal debt
against the property owner(s) until paid.
   (C)   This section shall apply to fire, explosion, or other casualty loss
claims arising on all buildings and structures.
   (D)   This section does not make the city a party to any insurance contract,
and the insurer is not liable to any party for any amount in excess of the
proceeds otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner may certify that in lieu of payment of all
or part of the covered claim payment under division (A) above that it has
obtained satisfactory proof that the insured has removed or will remove the
debris and repair, rebuild, or otherwise make the premises safe and secure. In
this event, the Building Commissioner shall issue a certificate within 30 days
after receipt of proof to permit covered claim payment to the insured without
the deduction pursuant to division (A) above. It shall be the obligation of the
insured or other person making the claim to provide the insurance company with
the written certificate provided for in this division (E).
(Prior Code, § 505.090)
§ 152.10 APPEAL.
   Any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, or any other person(s) having
an interest in a dangerous building as shown by the land records of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court
of the county, as provided for in RSMo. §§ 536.100 through 536.140, if a proper
record, as defined in RSMo. § 536.130, is maintained of the hearing provided
for in §
152.08. Otherwise, the appeal shall be made pursuant to the procedures provided
for in RSMo. § 536.150.
(Prior Code, § 505.100)
§ 152.11 EMERGENCIES.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
health, life, safety, or welfare of any person unless a dangerous building, as
defined herein, is immediately repaired, vacated, or demolished and the
property is cleaned up, the Building Inspector shall report such facts to the
Building Commissioner and the Building Commissioner may cause the immediate
repair, vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building. The costs of such
emergency repair, vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building shall be
collected in the same manner as provided in §§
152.08 and
152.09.
(Prior Code, § 505.110)
§ 152.12 VIOLATIONS; DISREGARDING NOTICES OR ORDERS.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee in possession of any dangerous building who
shall fail to comply with the order to repair, vacate, or demolish said
building given by the Building Commissioner or who shall fail to proceed
continuously without unnecessary delay; and any person removing any notices
provided for in this chapter; and any person violating any other provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not more than $500. Each day that a person fails to
comply with an order of the Building Commissioner may be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 505.120)
CHAPTER 153: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Matters covered
   
153.04   Conflict with other ordinances
   
153.05   Inspection
   
153.06   Public nuisance
   
153.07   Refusal to grant access
   
153.08   Notice
   
153.09   Judicial appeal
   
153.10   Definitions
Housing Standards
   
153.25   Sanitary facilities
   
153.26   Conditions
   
153.27   Food preparation
   
153.28   Living space
   
153.29   Thermal environment
   
153.30   Safety and access
   
153.31   Illumination and electricity
   
153.32   Structural condition
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Minimum Housing Standards for the City
of Pilot Grove, Missouri”.
(Prior Code, § 510.010)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these standards is to provide minimum requirements for the
protection of life, limb, health, property, safety, and welfare of the general
public and the owners and occupants of residential structures.
(Prior Code, § 510.020)
§ 153.03 MATTERS COVERED.
   Every residential structure and the premises on which it is situated shall
comply with these standards whether or not such structures shall have been
constructed before or after the adoption of these standards.
(Prior Code, § 510.030) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   When a provision of these standards is found to be in conflict with the
provision of any other ordinance or code of the municipality existing on the
effective date of these standards, the provision which establishes the higher
standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 510.040)
§ 153.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Mayor of the city or his or her
designee to make inspections of all residential structures and premises to
safeguard the safety, health, and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Inspections may be made on any dwelling for which a written complaint
is filed by any person to the effect that the dwelling or building is or may be
in violation of standards herein established.
(Prior Code, § 510.050)
§ 153.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Dwellings failing to comply with the minimum housing standards as set forth
shall be declared public nuisances and shall be abated by repairing,
reconditioning, vacating, or demolishing the same as is indicated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 510.060)
§ 153.07 REFUSAL TO GRANT ACCESS.
   (A)   In the event the owner, operator, or occupant shall refuse to grant
access to any dwelling which is or may be in violation of the minimum housing
standards herein, the person authorized to make inspections may make
application to the judge of the Municipal Court for a search warrant to inspect
such dwelling.
   (B)   This warrant will be granted only if access has first been refused.
(Prior Code, § 510.070)
§ 153.08 NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Mayor or his or her designee determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions
of these standards, he or she will give notice of such alleged violation to the
person or persons responsible therefor.
   (B)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall contain:
      (1)   The street and legal description of the premises;
      (2)   A listing of the conditions found which do not comply with the
standards;
      (3)   (a)   A statement of the action required by the city with specific
time to correct such violation (A reasonable amount of time should be provided
in the enforcement procedures to allow persons of good faith to make the
necessary repairs.
         (b)   There may be times when weather may delay certain repairs.
Persons of lower income may take longer than others. Good faith compliance is
accepted.); and
      (4)   Service of notice shall be upon the persons entitled or by
registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 510.080)
§ 153.09 JUDICIAL APPEAL.
   Any party aggrieved by any act or determination or order of the city may
appeal to the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 510.090)
§ 153.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms occupied or intended or designed to be
occupied by one individual, family, or household for housekeeping purposes.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Mayor of the city or by an administrative official
authorized by him or her.
   BASEMENT or CELLAR. The portion of a dwelling between the floor and the
ceiling which is partly or wholly below grade.
   BOARD. The local unit of government or such Board appointed by the Mayor for
a period of three years.
   DWELLING. Any building or mobile home or other structure which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
This does not include temporary housing which is designed to be portable and is
not attached to the ground, another structure, or any utilities system on the
same premises for more than 30 days.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms arranged for the use of one or more
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit with cooking, living,
sanitary, and sleeping facilities.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. Any room having cooking facilities used for combined
living, dining, and sleeping purposes and meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   ENDORSEMENT OFFICIAL. The Mayor of the city or such other person as may be
designated by him or her to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. Open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. Control and elimination of insects, rodents, and other pests
by eliminating their harborage place; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other approved pest elimination method.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable water resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space arranged for living, eating,
and sleeping purposes (not including bathrooms, water closet compartment,
laundries, pantries, foyers, hallways, and other accessory floor spaces or
basement rooms used for recreational purposes).
   HEATING. The definitions following under this paragraph shall apply to
heating installation.
      (1)   CENTRAL HEATING BOILERS AND FURNACES. Heating furnaces and boilers
shall include warm air furnaces; floor-mounted, direct-fired unit heaters; hot
water boilers; and steam boilers operating not in excess of 15 pounds of gauge
pressure used for heating of buildings or structures.
      (2)   CHIMNEY. A vertical shaft of masonry, reinforced concrete, or other
approved, non-combustible, heat-resistant material enclosing one or more flues
for the purpose of removing products of combustion from solid liquid or gas
fuel.
      (3)   FLUE. A vertical passageway for products of combustion.
      (4)   SPACE HEATER. A self-contained, vented, heating appliance of the
circulating type or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only one
room.
      (5)   VENT PIPE. As applied to heating, means a pipe for removing
products of combustion from gas appliances.
      (6)   WATER HEATER. A device for the heating and storage of water to be
used for other than heating or industrial purposes.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or contiguous to a structure or premises of
insects, rodents, vermin, or other pests.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence;
      (2)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, on the premises of a building or upon an unoccupied lot.
This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements, or excavation; abandoned
refrigerators and motor vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or
structures; or any lumber, trash, fences, debris, or vegetation which may prove
hazardous;
      (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health as
determined by the Building Official or Administrator; or
      (4)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living and sleeping in a dwelling
unit or having actual possession of said dwelling unit.
   OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. The person who has charge, care, and control of a structure or
premises which are let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER AND OWNER OCCUPANT. Any person herein defined who, alone, jointly, or
severally with others, shall have record legal title to any dwelling, as herein
defined.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, or partnership.
   PLUMBING or PLUMBING FIXTURES. Water-heating facilities, water pipes, gas
pipes, garbage and disposal units, waster lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
and washing machines or other similar equipment, catch basins, drains, vents,
or other similarly supplied fixtures together with all connections to water to
water, gas, sewer, or vent lines.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or
heating purposes.
   STRUCTURE. Assembly of materials forming a construction for occupancy or use
including, among others, buildings, stadiums, tents, reviewing stands,
platforms, stagings, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks, trestles,
open sheds, coal bins, shelters, fences, and display signs.
   SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished, or provided by the owner or operator.
   TRASH or RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waster materials, except
garbage. The term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
cokes and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery, dust, and other similar materials.
   VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanic means to or from any space.
   WORKPERSONLIKE. When the words “workpersonlike state of maintenance and
repair” are used, they shall mean that such maintenance and repair shall be
made in a reasonably skillful manner.
   YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building extending
along the entire length of a street or rear or interior lot line.
(Prior Code, § 510.130; Prior Code, § 510.140; Prior Code, § 510.150)
HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 153.25 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have a flush toilet in a separate, private
room.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall have a fixed basin and a shower or tub in
proper operating condition with hot and cold running water.
   (C)   Hot and cold running water shall be present in the dwelling unit.
   (D)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, shower, and toilet shall
be connected to either a public or private approved water and disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 510.160) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The dwelling unit and its equipment shall be free of vermin and rodent
infestation.
   (B)   The owner shall be responsible for maintaining sanitary conditions in
all public or common areas. If infestation occurs in the rental units, the
landlord shall be responsible for extermination.
   (C)   The tenants shall be responsible for maintenance of the occupied unit
in a clean and non-destructive manner.
   (D)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with a closed receptacle
accepted by the city for the disposal of garbage and trash.
(Prior Code, § 510.170) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 FOOD PREPARATION.
   Each kitchen shall have a kitchen sink in proper operating condition with
hot and cold running water. Water and drainage is to be connected to an
approved public or private system and each dwelling shall contain an “adequate”
space for storage and preparation and serving of food.
(Prior Code, § 510.180) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28 LIVING SPACE.
   Except for efficiency living units, each dwelling unit shall have a:
   (A)   Living room;
   (B)   Kitchen area;
   (C)   Bathroom with toilet in separate, private room; and
   (D)   One bedroom or living room of “appropriate” size.
(Prior Code, § 510.190) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.29 THERMAL ENVIRONMENT.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain safe heating and/or cooling facilities in
proper operating condition. Adequate heating or cooling to each room
appropriate for the climate must be assured. Room heaters which burn wood, gas,
oil, or kerosene must be properly vented.
(Prior Code, § 510.200) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.30 SAFETY AND ACCESS.
   Exterior doors and windows shall be lockable. Access to a dwelling unit must
not be through other dwelling units. An alternative means of leaving the
dwelling in the case of fire shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 510.210) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.31 ILLUMINATION AND ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   The dwelling shall be free from dangerous levels of air pollution,
such as carbon monoxide, sewer gas, fuel gas, dust, and harmful air pollutions.
   (B)   All living rooms and sleeping rooms shall have at least one window
which can be opened.
   (C)   Two electrical outlets, of which only one may be an overhead or wall
light, shall be present and operable in living room and each bedroom. At least
one duplex, convenience outlet is required.
   (D)   A ceiling or wall-type light fixture shall be present and working in
the bathroom and kitchen area. In addition, at least one duplex, convenience
outlet is required.
   (E)   Bathroom areas shall have one openable window or other adequate
exhaust ventilation.
   (F)   Windows shall be glazed and fit properly and have adequate locks for
safety.
(Prior Code, § 510.220) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Each foundation shall adequately support the building at all points,
be maintained in a workpersonlike state of maintenance and repair, and exclude
rodents. The roof structure shall be firm and weather-tight. The exterior wall
structure and wall surface shall not have any serious defects such as buckling,
serious leaning, sagging, cracks or holes, loose siding, or other serious
damage. Painting will be required where paint is pealing off and sluffing and
wood is exposed.
   (B)   The dwelling unit must be free of severe bulging, leaning, large
holes, loose surface materials, noticeable movement under walking stress,
severe buckling, missing parts, or other serious damage in ceilings and walls
or floors. The floors shall be capable of supporting normal load. Inside and
outside stairways, halls, porches, and walkways shall present no danger of
tripping or falling.
(Prior Code, § 510.230) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with this chapter shall be punishable as follows.
   (A)   The city may approve special tax bills in a sufficient amount to pay
for demolition of dilapidated buildings where owners fail to demolish the same
and when the same exist in contravention of this chapter.
   (B)   The city may require certificates of occupancy shown in compliance
with any notice of violation of requirements of this chapter before rental
units can again be rented.
(Prior Code, § 510.120)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Location outside mobile home parks
   
154.03   Moving mobile homes into the city
Mobile Home Parks
   
154.15   Permits; construction, altering, or extending
   
154.16   Licenses
   
154.17   Inspection
   
154.18   Notices, hearing, and orders
   
154.19   Environmental, open spaces, and access requirements
   
154.20   Water supply
   
154.21   Sewage disposal
   
154.22   Electrical distribution system
   
154.23   Service buildings and other service facilities
   
154.24   Refuse handling
   
154.25   Insect and rodent control
   
154.26   Fuel supply and storage
   
154.27   Fire protection
   
154.28   Miscellaneous requirements
   
154.29   Conflict of ordinances; effect of partial invalidity
Fire Safety and Public Health Standards
   
154.40   Definitions
   
154.41   Temporary dwellings
   
154.42   Construction standards
   
154.43   Foundation requirements
   
154.44   Parking
   
154.45   Spacing and access
   
154.46   Compliance with RSMo. Chapter 700
   
154.47   Utilities
   
154.48   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor, private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile
home lot or used for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
   LICENSE. A written license issued by the municipality.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-
round occupancy containing the same water supply, waste disposal, and
electrical convenience as immobile housing.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of one single- or
double-wide mobile home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been developed for
the placement of two or more mobile homes and is owned by an individual, a
firm, trust, partnership, public or private association, or corporation.
   MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL. The authorized representative of the city.
   PARK STREET. A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the municipality permitting the
construction, alteration, and extension of a mobile home park under the
provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public, or private
association or corporation.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewage system serving the mobile home
park.
   SEWER RISER PIPE. The portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home space.
   WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home.
   WATER RISER PIPE. The portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park parking areas which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each mobile home lot.
(Prior Code, § 410.010)
§ 154.02 LOCATION OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any reason,
to park any mobile home on any street, alley, or highway or other public place
or on any tract of land owned by a person, occupied or unoccupied, within the
city except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home on the premises of any
occupied dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 410.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 MOVING MOBILE HOMES INTO THE CITY.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term MOBILE HOME means a residence type
structure or vehicle so designed and constructed as to permit the occupancy
thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons and so designed that it is
or may be mounted on wheels and transported or conveyed upon public roadways.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or to cause to be moved
into the city any mobile home, except for the purpose of sale by a licensed
dealer, until a permit therefor has been obtained from the Board of Aldermen as
herein provided.
   (C)   An application for a permit to move a mobile home in the city shall
include the names and addresses of the applicants, the names and addresses of
the owners of the mobile home, the proposed location for the mobile home, the
names and addresses of the owners of the real estate of such proposed location,
and a certificate that the said mobile home complies with the minimum standards
as provided for in this chapter.
   (D)   In determining whether or not to issue a permit for a mobile home, the
Board of Aldermen shall consider if the mobile home will be in harmony with the
development of the city, whether the mobile home meets the standards required
herein, and whether a safe and healthful living environment will exist for the
occupants of the said mobile home at the proposed location.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a mobile home to
occupy or permit any person to occupy as a residence any mobile home until the
mobile home has been placed upon a permanent foundation of either concrete or
concrete blocks and with the wheels removed and with all utilities connected
and in service, including a separate septic tank and water connection.
(Prior Code, § 410.030) (Ord. 57, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 154.15 PERMITS; CONSTRUCTION, ALTERING, OR EXTENDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend any
mobile home park within the corporate limits of the city unless he or she holds
a valid permit issued by the Board of Aldermen in the name of such person for
the specific construction, alteration, or extension proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Board and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Interest of the applicant in the mobile home park;
      (3)   Location and legal description of the mobile home park; and
      (4)   Compliance engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
park showing, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The number, location, and size of all lots;
         (c)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
         (d)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (e)   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of the water supply, refuse, and sewage
disposal facilities;
         (g)   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park; and
         (h)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of $500
for mobile home parks.
   (D)   When, upon review of the application, the Mayor or special Building
Inspector is satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this
chapter, a permit shall be issued.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Board of Aldermen under the procedure provided by §
154.18.
(Prior Code, § 410.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.16 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mobile home park
within the limits of the city unless he or she holds a valid license issued
annually by the Board of Aldermen in the name of such person for the specific
mobile home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the Board of
Aldermen who shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person holding a license shall give notice, in writing, to the
city within 48 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise
disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for transfer of
the license and deposit of a fee of $12.50, the license shall be transferred if
the mobile home park is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application and by the deposit of a fee of $12.50, and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the mobile home park; and
      (3)   A site plan of the mobile home park showing all lots, structures,
roads, walkways, and other service facilities.
   (D)   Applications for renewal of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holders of the licenses and shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of
$12.50 and shall contain any change in the information submitted since the
original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a license under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Board of Aldermen under the procedure provided by §
154.18.
   (F)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the Mayor or
special Building Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are
in violation of any provision of this chapter or regulations issued hereunder,
the Mayor or special Building Inspector shall give notice in writing in
accordance with §
154.18 to the person to whom the license was issued that unless such conditions
or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice by the Mayor or special Building Inspector, the license shall be
suspended. At the end of such period, the Mayor or special Building Inspector
shall reinspect such mobile home park and, if such conditions or practices have
not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give notice in
writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license is issued. Upon
receipt of notice of such suspension, such person shall cease operation of such
mobile home park except as provided in §
154.18.
(Prior Code, § 410.050)
§ 154.17 INSPECTION.
   The Mayor or special Building Inspector shall have the power to enter, at
reasonable times, upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 410.060)
§ 154.18 NOTICES, HEARING, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or special Building Inspector determines that there
is reasonable ground to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, the Mayor or special Building Inspector shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit or license
was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require. Provided that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of
this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of Aldermen. Provided that
such person file in the office of the city a written petition requesting such
hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten
days after the day the notice is served. The filing of the request for a
hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the suspension except in
the case of an order issued under division (E) below. Upon receipt of such
petition, the Mayor or special Building Inspector shall set a time and place
for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such
hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show
why such notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced
not later than ten days after the day on which the petition was filed. Provided
that upon application of the petitioner the Mayor or special Building Inspector
may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten-day
period when, in his or her judgment, the petitioner has submitted good and
sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Board of Aldermen shall make finding as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue an order in
writing sustaining, modifying, or withdrawing the notice which shall be served
as provided in division (A) above hereof. Upon failure to comply with any order
sustaining or modifying a notice, the license of the mobile home park affected
by the order shall be revoked.
   (D)   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the Board of Aldermen and together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto, shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Board of Aldermen but the transcript of the proceedings need not be
transcribed unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by
this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Aldermen may
seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the
laws of this state.
   (E)   Whenever the Mayor or special Building Inspector finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
he or she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may
deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or
license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately but upon petition to the Mayor or special Building
Inspector shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of
division (A) and (D) above hereof shall be applicable to such hearing and the
order issued thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 410.070)
§ 154.19 ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACES, AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   (a)   Conditions of soil, ground water level, drainage, and
topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety of
the occupants.
         (b)   The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise,
odors, or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable
and/or sudden flooding, subsidence, or erosion shall be used for any purpose
which would expose persons or property to hazards.
      (2)   Each lot provided for the occupancy of a single mobile home unit
shall have an area of not less than 4,500 square feet and a width of not less
than 45 feet, and no park shall be permitted an average density of mobile home
lots of more than eight per acre, and each mobile home park shall provide an
area of not less than ten acres.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall provide lots sufficient in size that no
mobile home or any structure, addition, or appurtenance thereto is located less
than ten feet from the nearest adjacent court boundary.
      (4)   Space between mobile homes may be used for the parking of motor
vehicles if the space is clearly designated and the vehicle is parked at least
ten feet from the nearest adjacent park boundary.
      (5)   The mobile home park shall be surrounded by a landscaped strip of
open space 50 feet wide along a major street or highway and 25 feet wide along
all other lot lines or street frontage.
   (B)   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park shall
be paved or covered with stone screenings or other solid material or protected
with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of
eliminating objectionable dust.
   (C)   The ground surface in all parts of every mobile home park shall be
graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
   (D)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any parking
area boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway.
   (E)   Separation of buildings or structures.
      (1)   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least 20 feet, provided that mobile homes placed
end-to-end may have a clearance of 15 feet where opposing rear walls are
staggered.
      (2)   An accessory structure which has a horizontal area exceeding 25
square feet, is attached to a mobile home, and has an opaque top or roof that
is higher than the nearest window shall, for purposes of all separation
requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   (F)   Separation from park property and commercial uses.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any park
property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at least 15
feet from other park property boundary lines.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet between an individual
mobile home and adjoining pavement of a park street or common parking area or
other common areas.
      (3)   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth
along the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent non-
residential uses.
      (4)   All mobile homes shall be set back not less than 150 feet from a
sewage lagoon or drainfield from a sewage treatment system.
   (G)   Streets.
      (1)   Pavement. All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard, and
dense surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes, and other hazards.
      (2)   Grades. Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage but shall be not more than 8%. Short run with a
maximum grade of 12% may be permitted, provided traffic safety is assured by
appropriate paving, adequate leveling areas, and avoidance of lateral curves.
      (3)   Intersections. Within 100 feet of an intersection, streets shall be
at approximately right angles. A distance of at least 150 feet shall be
maintained between centerlines of offset intersecting streets. Intersections of
more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 410.080)
§ 154.20 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General regulations concerning water supply are as follows.
      (1)   The water supply system of the mobile home parking area shall be
connected by pipes to all buildings and other facilities requiring water.
      (2)   All water piping, fixtures, and other equipment shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations and
requirements and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the state’s
Division of Health.
      (3)   The water piping system shall not be connected with non-potable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back siphonage.
      (4)   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch, under normal operating
conditions, at service buildings and other locations requiring potable water
supply.
   (B)   Riser pipes provided for individual water-service connections shall be
located within the confined area of the mobile home stand at a point where the
water connection will approximate a vertical position.
   (C)   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation. The pipe size shall be at least three-quarter inch. The water outlet
shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
   (D)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves, and riser pipes.
   (E)   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any water
service.
(Prior Code, § 410.090)
§ 154.21 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be
free of breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from
the water supply system at a safe distance. Sewers shall be at a grade which
will ensure a velocity of two feet per second when flowing full. All sewer
lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the health authority, shall
be adequately vented, and shall have watertight joints.
   (B)   If facilities for individual sewer connections are provided, the
following requirements shall apply.
      (1)   The sewer riser pipe shall have at least a four-inch diameter,
shall be trapped below the ground surface, and shall be so located on the
mobile home lot that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      (2)   The sewer connection (see definition in §
154.01) shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least three inches, and the
slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch per foot. The
sewer connection shall consist of one pipe only without any branch fittings.
All joints shall be watertight.
      (3)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be corrosive
resistant, non-absorbent, and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      (4)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away
from the riser.
      (5)   All septic tanks now in use or hereafter to be constructed shall
comply with the requirements and specifications of the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and all other applicable regulatory agencies, codes, and
regulations governing such systems.
(Prior Code, § 410.100)
§ 154.22 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of
wiring, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances which shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with the National Electrical Code.
   (B)   Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at least
18 feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of
three feet between overhead wiring and any mobile home, service building, or
other structure.
   (C)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18
inches below the ground surface and shall be insulated and specially designed
for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas, or communication lines.
   (D)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved disconnecting
device and overcurrent protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet
shall be 120/240 volts AC, 100 amperes.
   (E)   Outlet receptacles shall be located not more than 25 feet from the
overcurrent protective devices in the mobile home and a three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of weatherproof construction
and configurations shall be in accordance with the American Standard Outlet
Receptacle C-73.1.
   (F)   The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet receptacle by an
approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment plug.
   (G)   All exposed non-current carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all
other equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor
with branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic
wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for
mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § 410.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.23 SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to furnish temporary facilities for
accommodating a recreational vehicle rally or other group of recreational
vehicles assembled for the purpose of traveling together shall make application
for such activity to the Mayor or special Building Inspector.
      (2)   The requirements for a service building and other sanitary and
physical facilities may be waived by the health authority on the determination
that public health will not be endangered; but the location of the site, the
facilities which are provided, and the method for conducting such rally shall
be acceptable to the health authority before a special license shall be issued
specifying the location of the site, the period of operation not to exceed ten
days, and any conditions of issuance.
   (B)   (1)   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, and wood-burning
stoves shall be so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize
fire hazard and smoke nuisances both on the property on which it is used and on
neighboring property.
      (2)   No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No
open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material
burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 410.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.24 REFUSE HANDLING.
   (A)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in a mobile home
parking area shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution
and comply with other applicable provisions of this code.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, rodentproof
containers which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse.
   (C)   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage, and container deterioration and facilitate
cleaning around them.
   (D)   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least once weekly.
Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or private
agencies, the owner or operator of the mobile home park shall provide this
service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers.
(Prior Code, § 410.130) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.25 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
municipality.
   (B)   Parking areas shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris
which may provide rodent harboring or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes,
and other pests.
   (C)   Storage areas shall be maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe, and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above the ground.
   (D)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (E)   (1)   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to
prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects.
      (2)   Parking areas shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of
ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, and other noxious weeds
considered detrimental to health.
      (3)   Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any
description.
(Prior Code, § 410.140) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.26 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Natural gas system.
      (1)   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   (a)   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an
approved manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet.
         (b)   The outlet shall be equipped with an approved cap to prevent
accidental discharge of gas when the outlet is not in use.
   (B)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems.
      (1)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
      (3)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be
maintained in effective operating condition.
      (4)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported
and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas in
liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in
mobile homes.
      (5)   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot
shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than 12 nor more than 60 United
States gallons gross capacity.
      (6)   No liquified petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside
or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home, or any other structure
unless such installations are approved by the municipality.
   (C)   Fuel oil supply system.
      (1)   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
      (3)   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened
in place and shall not be located inside or beneath any mobile home or less
than five feet from any mobile home exit.
      (4)   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be
protected against physical damage.
(Prior Code, § 410.150)
§ 154.27 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
city fire prevention authority.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be kept tree of litter, rubbish, and other
flammable materials.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other equipment intended for
such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 410.160) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.28 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities, and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   (C)   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile home
on its stand which includes securing its stability and installing all utility
connections.
   (D)   The park management shall maintain a register containing the names of
all park occupants identified by lot number or street address. Such register
shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the park.
   (E)   The park management shall notify the health authority immediately of
any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.
   (F)   The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of
this chapter and shall maintain his or her mobile home lot, its facilities, and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (G)   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his or
her mobile home on its stand and proper installation of all utility connections
in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
   (H)   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall not be prohibited to run at
large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home lot.
   (I)   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his or her rubbish
and garbage in a clean, sanitary, and safe manner. The garbage container shall
be rodentproof, insectproof, and watertight.
   (J)   A mobile home shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes unless it is
properly placed on a proper foundation and connected to water, sewerage, and
electrical utilities.
(Prior Code, § 410.170) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.29 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES; EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   (A)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or this code existing on the
effective date of this chapter, December 15, 1977, the provision which, in the
judgment of the Mayor or special Building Inspector, established the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of this city existing
on the effective date of this chapter, December 15, 1977, which establishes a
lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such
other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that
they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 410.180)
FIRE SAFETY AND PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS
§ 154.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure or structures which, in the
traveling mode, are eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length or, when erected on site, contain 320 or more square feet, equipped with
the necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a
unit or units with or without a permanent foundation. The phrase “without a
permanent foundation” indicates that the support system is constructed with the
intent that the manufactured home placed thereon may be moved from time to time
at the convenience of the owner.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used as a
residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, which became
effective June 15, 1976, and being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   MODULAR UNIT. A transportable building unit designed to be used by itself or
to be incorporated with similar units at a point-of-use into a modular
structure to be used for residential, commercial, educational, or industrial
purposes. This definition shall not apply to structures under 650 square feet
used temporarily and exclusively for construction site office purposes.
   PARK TRAILER. A modular-type unit built on a single chassis mounted on
wheels, designed primarily as temporary living quarters for seasonal or
destination camping and having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square
feet and not less than 240 square feet in the setup mode.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, or legal entity.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type unit primarily designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
   SEAL. A device, label, or insignia issued by the state’s Public Service
Commission, United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or its
agent, to be displayed on the exterior of the manufactured home, recreational
vehicle, or modular unit to evidence compliance with the code.
   SETUP. The operations performed at the occupancy site which render a
manufactured home or modular unit fit for habitation, which operations include,
but are not limited to, moving, blocking, leveling, supporting, and assembling
multiple or expandable units.
(Prior Code, § 410.190)
§ 154.41 TEMPORARY DWELLINGS.
   No person may use or occupy a recreational vehicle or park trailer in the
corporate limits of the city as a temporary living quarters for a period
exceeding 30 days in any given calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 410.200) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.42 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All manufactured homes and modular units must be constructed according
to the standards established by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development for constructing such structures and shall bear a seal issued
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, as required
by RSMo. Chapter 700, prior to any such structure being set up in the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   All mobile homes must be constructed according to the standards
established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
for constructing manufactured homes and modular units and shall have a seal of
approval by the state’s Public Service Commission indicating that repairs and
construction to said mobile home have been completed to make it comply with
said standards.
   (C)   All manufactured home, modular homes, and mobile homes must have
entryways built in a stable and safe manner. All entryways and decks must be a
minimum of four feet by six feet wide with safety railings.
   (D)   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes must comply
with the following:
      (1)   Have a pitched roof of no less than three inches of vertical rise
to each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (2)   Have roofing materials consisting of composition asphalt shingle,
fiberglass shingle, wood shake, baked tile, or crushed rock;
      (3)   Have siding material consisting of wood or wood products, stucco,
brick, horizontal lap steel or aluminum, horizontal lap vinyl, or rock;
      (4)   Have proper guttering attached; and
      (5)   The hitch, tongue, and axles must be removed.
(Prior Code, § 410.210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.43 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes set up in the
corporate limits of the city shall be set on a permanent foundation except
manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes that measure less than 16
by 80 feet which shall be set on a foundation of concrete footings and properly
skirted.
   (B)   The permanent foundation must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   All exterior walls must be securely attached to a concrete
foundation extending to a minimum of 36 inches below the surface of the ground
or below the frost level, whichever is deepest.
      (2)   The foundation described in division (A) above shall consist of a
minimum of one foot eight inches spread footing at the deepest point with
number four re-bar for reinforcement. From the surface of the ground to the
point of connection to the manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home, the
continuous poured concrete wall shall be a minimum of eight inches in width
with number four re-bar extending to within three and one-half inches from the
top of said foundation. If using concrete blocks in lieu of continuous poured
concrete, the wall must conform with the same dimensions and the type of
concrete block used shall be eight inches by eight inches by 16 inches.
(Prior Code, § 410.220) (Ord. 2, passed 7-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.44 PARKING.
   (A)   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes set up in the
corporate limits of the city shall provide at least one off-street parking
space on the lot on which said structure is set up to be used by the resident
of said structure or his or her guests.
   (B)   Such parking spaces shall have an area of not less than 200 square
feet, exclusive of space necessary to provide access to a street.
(Prior Code, § 410.230) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.45 SPACING AND ACCESS.
   No manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home shall be set up within
the corporate limits of the city unless it is placed upon a city lot a minimum
of 45 feet in width and unless it is set up and maintained a minimum distance
of 40 feet from any permanent structure which is not attached to the
manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home and ten feet from any adjoining
property line.
(Prior Code, § 410.240) (Ord. 11, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 154.46 COMPLIANCE WITH RSMo. CHAPTER 700.
   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes must be set up and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of RSMo. Chapter 700, which are
not in direct conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 410.250)
§ 154.47 UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   No manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes shall be
hooked up to city utilities until all required fees are paid and it has been
inspected by and received approval from the Mayor or special Building Inspector
as being in compliance with this chapter and RSMo. Chapter 700.
      (2)   The Mayor may designate or appoint a special Building Inspector to
act in his or her absence.
   (B)   This inspection shall be done within 30 days from the date of delivery
of the manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home within the corporate
limits of the city. Violation of this provision is subject to a fine of $50 per
day until said inspection is completed. This fine shall be assessed to the
owner of the manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 410.260) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the terms
of this chapter or to interfere with the Mayor or special Building Inspector in
the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter shall not require any particular state of
mind on the part of the defendant.
(Prior Code, § 410.270) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Findings of fact; statutory authorization
   
155.02   Statement of purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Lands to which chapter applies
   
155.05   Floodplain Administrator
   
155.06   Compliance
   
155.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.08   Interpretation
   
155.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.10   Amendments
Administration
   
155.25   Floodplain development permit
   
155.26   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
155.27   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
155.28   Application for floodplain development permit
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.40   General standards
   
155.41   Specific standards
   
155.42   Manufactured homes
   
155.43   Recreational vehicles
Floodplain Management Variance Procedures
   
155.55   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
155.56   Responsibility of Appeal Board
   
155.57   Further appeals
   
155.58   Floodplain management variance criteria
   
155.59   Conditions for approving floodplain management variances
   
155.60   Conditions for approving variances for agricultural structures
   
155.61   Conditions for approving variances for accessory structures
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 FINDINGS OF FACT; STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in RSMo.
79.110, delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt
floodplain management regulations designed to protect the health, safety, and
general welfare. Therefore, the Board of Aldermen of the city ordains as
follows in division (B) below.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The special flood
hazard areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of
life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditure for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base; all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a) The cumulative effect of development in any delineated floodplain
causing increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (b) The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods,
hazardous to others, inadequately elevated, or otherwise unprotected from flood
damages.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare; to minimize those losses described §
155.01 (B)(1); to establish or maintain the community’s eligibility for
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), as defined in 44
C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(3); and to meet the requirement of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b) by
applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities that
serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction; and
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands that are unsuited for the
intended development purposes due to the flood hazard.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Means the same as APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   ACTUARIAL RATES. See RISK PREMIUM RATES.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Federal Insurance Administrator.
   AGENCY. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES. Agricultural products and livestock.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure used exclusively in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural
commodities.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property as
the principle structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER or CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The official of the
community who is charged with the authority to implement and administer laws,
ordinances, and regulations for that community.
   COMMUNITY. Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, which has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, levees, levee
systems, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY or PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community for which the
Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs-effective before that date, EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) and is completed before the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood areas having special flood
hazards have been designated as (unnumbered or numbered) A zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk
premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOOD or FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain and grading ordinances), and other applications of police
power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, that provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, or
structures and their contents.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended purposes
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This term
includes only docking facilities and facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, but does not include long-term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed areas (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable floodproofing design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MARKET VALUE or FAIR MARKET VALUE. An estimate of what is fair, economic,
just, and equitable value under normal local market conditions.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
“start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   NFIP. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Also known as ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY, means a community
in which the Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including federal, state, and
local governments and agencies.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with federal, state, or local floodplain management regulations; or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of
the structure before the damage occurred.
   RISK PREMIUM RATES. Those rates established by the Administrator pursuant to
individual community studies and investigations which are undertaken to provide
flood insurance in accordance with § 1307 of the National Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. § 4014, and the accepted actuarial
principles. RISK PREMIUM RATES include provisions for operating costs and
allowances.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   SPECIAL HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood hazards and shown on an
FHBM or FIRM as zones (unnumbered or numbered) A, AO, AE, or AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvements, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvements were within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, the
installation of streets and/or walkways, excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, the erection of temporary forms, nor installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial-
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY. The agency of the state government, or other
office designated by the governor of the state or by state statute at the
request of the Administrator to assist in the implementation of the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in that state.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE, for insurance purposes, means a walled
and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a
manufactured home on a permanent foundation. For the latter purpose, the term
includes a building while in the course of construction, alteration, or repair,
but does not include building materials or supplies intended for use in such
construction, alteration, or repair, unless such materials or supplies are
within an enclosed building on the premises.
   SUBSTANTIAL-DAMAGE.
      (1)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. The term
includes REPETITIVE LOSS buildings (see definition).
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the Code
Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any improvement to a building.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during the life of the building, in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures, which have incurred
“repetitive loss” or “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
done.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS is
where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the
streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. Flood insurance requirements remain in place for any
varied use or structure and cannot be varied by the community.
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this chapter
is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
city, identified as unnumbered A zones, on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM),
the county maps dated May 3, 2011 on map panels 29053C0120C and 29053C0275C, as
amended, and any future revisions thereto.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be
permitted except through the issuance of a floodplain development permit,
granted by the Board of Aldermen or its duly designated representative under
such safeguards and restrictions as the Board of Aldermen or the designated
representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the
general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community, and as
specifically noted in §§
155.25 through
155.28.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.05 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Emergency Operations Director is hereby designated as the Floodplain
Administrator under this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No development located within the special flood hazard areas of this
community shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor
of the governing body, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that areas outside unnumbered A zones or
land uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damage. This chapter shall not create a liability on the part of the city, any
officer, or employee thereof, for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.10 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., provided however, that no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties of interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. At least 20 days shall elapse between the date of this publication
and the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the
Region VII office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The
regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) regulations.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.25 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A floodplain development permit shall be required for all proposed
construction or other development including the placement of manufactured
homes, in the areas described in §
155.04.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or unit of government shall initiate any
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate floodplain development permit for each structure or
other development.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.26 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Emergency Operations Director is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Emergency Operations Director shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits to
assure that sites are reasonably safe from flooding and that the floodplain
development permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits for
proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been obtained
from federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which prior approval
is required by federal, state, or local law;
   (C)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (D)   Issue floodplain development permits for all approved applications;
   (E)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Emergency Management
Agency (Mo SEMA) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA);
   (F)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished and shall be
maintained within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse; and
   (G)   Where base flood elevation from other sources is utilized within
unnumbered A zones:
      (1)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) that the new or substantially improved non-residential
structures have been floodproofed; and
      (3)   When floodproofing techniques are utilized for a particular non-
residential structure, the Emergency Operations Director shall require
certification from a registered professional engineer or architect.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.28 APPLICATION FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every floodplain development permit application shall:
      (1)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, and tract; house and street address; or similar description that will
readily identify and specifically locate the proposed building or work;
      (2)   Identify and described the work to be covered by the floodplain
development permit;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Indicate the assessed value of the structure and the fair market
value of the improvement;
      (5)   Identify the existing base flood elevation and the elevation of the
proposed development;
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Emergency Operations Director;
      (7)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (8)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   No permit for floodplain development shall be granted for new
construction, substantial-improvements, and other improvements, including the
placement of manufactured homes, within any unnumbered A zone unless the
conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   (1)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are
subject to inundation of the 100-year flood; however, the base flood elevation
is not provided. Development within unnumbered A zones is subject to all
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If flood insurance study data is not available, the community shall
obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation or floodway
data currently available from federal, state, or other sources.
   (C)   All new construction, subdivision proposals, substantial-improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes, and other
developments shall require:
      (1)   Design or adequate anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Utilization of methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
      (4)   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities be designed and/or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designated to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination; and
      (6)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, located within special flood hazard
areas are required to assure that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
         (d)   All proposals for development, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, of five acres or 50 lots, whichever
is lesser, including within such proposals base flood elevation data.
   (D)   Agricultural structures. Structures used solely for agricultural
purposes in connection with the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or
raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising of livestock, may be
constructed at-grade and wet-proofed, provided there is no human habitation or
occupancy of the structure; the structure is of single-wall design; there is no
permanent retail, wholesale, or manufacturing use included in the structure; a
variance has been granted from the floodplain management requirements of this
chapter; and a floodplain development permit has been issued.
   (E)   Storage, material, and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials within the special flood
hazard area that are in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or
could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods, if firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood
warning.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Structures used solely for parking and limited
storage purposes, not attached to any other structure on the site, of limited
investment value, and not larger than 400 square feet, may be constructed at-
grade and wet-floodproofed, provided there is no human habitation or occupancy
of the structure; the structure is of single-wall design; a variance has been
granted from the standard floodplain management requirements of this chapter;
and a floodplain development permit has been issued.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard, once base flood elevation data
is obtained, as set forth in §
155.41(B), the following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial-
improvement of any residential structure, including manufactured homes, shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot above base
flood level. (The FEMA, Region VII office recommends elevating to one foot
above the base flood elevation to accommodate floodway conditions when the
floodplain is fully developed.)
      (2)   Non-residential construction.
         (a)   New construction or substantial-improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other non-residential structure, including manufactured homes,
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot above the
base flood level or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
         (b)   Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in Article 3, Section C(7)(c). (The FEMA, Region VII
office recommends elevating to one foot above the base flood elevation to
qualify for flood insurance rates based upon floodproofing.)
      (3)   Enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         (a)   Require, for all new construction and substantial-improvements,
that fully enclosed areas below lowest floor used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and that
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings have a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (B)   In all areas of special flood hazard, once floodway data is obtained,
as set forth in §
155.40(B), the following provisions are required:
      (1)   The designated floodway shall be based on the standard that the
area chosen for the floodway must be designed to carry the waters of the base
flood, without increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot at any
point; and
      (2)   The community shall prohibit any encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial-improvements, and other development within the
designated regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.42 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   (1)   All manufactured homes to be placed within special flood hazard
areas shall be required to be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
within unnumbered A zones on the community’s FIRM on sites;
         (a)   Outside of manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to and existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial-damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to one foot above the base flood level, and be
securely attached to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured home be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufacture home park or subdivision within unnumbered
A zones on the community’s FIRM, that are not subject to the provisions of
division (A)(2) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at one foot above
the base flood level; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely attached to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (B)   The FEMA, Region VII office recommends elevating to one foot above the
base flood elevation to accommodate floodway conditions when the floodplain is
fully developed.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.43 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within unnumbered A zones
on the community’s FHBM or FIRM either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.); or
   (C)   Meet the permitting, elevation, and the anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes of this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011) Penalty, see §
155.99
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.55 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Aldermen as established by the city shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the floodplain management requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.56 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Where an application for a floodplain development permit or request
for a variance from the floodplain management regulations is denied by the
Emergency Operations Director, the applicant may apply for such floodplain
development permit or variance directly to the Appeal Board, as defined in §
155.55.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Emergency Operations Director in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.57 FURTHER APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Aldermen or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the county Circuit Court, as provided in
RSMo. 89.110.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.58 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCE CRITERIA.
   In passing upon such application for variances, the Board of Aldermen shall
consider all technical data and evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and the following criteria:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flood damage;
   (B)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flood
damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (J)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters, if applicable, expected at the site; and
   (K)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems; streets; and
bridges.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.59 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, provided divisions (B) through (F) below have been
fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places,
the state’s Inventory of Historic Places, or local inventory of historic places
upon determination provided the proposed activity will not preclude the
structure’s continued historic designation.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the signature
of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.60 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING VARIANCES FOR AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions, as well
as those criteria and conditions set forth in §§
155.58 and
155.59.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-
grade and wet-floodproofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures, such as farm houses, cannot be
considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (that is, foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the
base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
155.40(C)(2).
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
155.40(C)(1). All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
155.40(C)(4).
      (6)   The agricultural structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or
foundation walls, subject to the 100-year flood, contain openings that will
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters, in accordance with §
155.41(A)(3).
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway encroachment provisions of §
155.41(B)(1). No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway, if any increase in flood levels would result during the
100-year flood.
      (8)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected
from any flood damage.
      (9)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by any
federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
agricultural structures.
      (10)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a) The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
      (11)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and a registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.61 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING VARIANCES FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any variance granted for an accessory structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set for in §§
155.58 and
155.59.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for accessory structures that are constructed at-grade
and wet-floodproofed.
      (1)   Use of the accessory structures must be solely for parking and
limited storage purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
      (2)   For any new or substantially damaged accessory structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (that is, foundation,
wall framing, exterior, and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below
the base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in
accordance with §
155.40(C)(2).
      (3)   The accessory structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure in accordance with §
155.40(C)(1). All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (4)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
155.40(C)(4).
      (5)   The accessory structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or
foundation walls, subject to the 100-year flood, contain openings that will
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
155.41(A)(3).
      (6)   The accessory structures must comply with the floodplain management
floodway encroachment provisions of §
155.41(B)(2). No variances may be issued for accessory structures within any
designated floodway, if any increase in flood levels would result during the
100-year flood.
      (7)   Equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected from any
flood damage.
      (8)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by any
federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
accessory structures.
      (9)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
      (10)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and the registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100, and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 63, passed 4-21-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   EASEMENTS
      
II.   SALE AND LEASING OF PROPERTY
      
III.   CONTRACTS, AGREEMENTS, AND FRANCHISES
TABLE I: EASEMENTS
 
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
31   7-2-   Dedication of easement for street purposes granted by Martha L. Vollmer to the
     2007   city
100  9-9-   Establishing that the current driving loop through City Park be given the name
     2019   â€œCity Park Loopâ€ and to be included among the streets of the city
 
 
TABLE II: SALE AND LEASING OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
12   9-8-   Sale of land situated in the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 47 North,
     2004   Range 18 West to Beverly A. Quint
13   9-8-   Sale of land situated in the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 47 North,
     2004   Range 18 West to Kirk Schlotzhauer and Patricia Schlotzhauer
     10-2-  Lease agreement renewal with the stateâ€™s Department of Natural Resources for
25   2006   certain property between chaining stations 10742+42 and 10745+00, near mile
            marker 203.45
66   10-3-  Leasing space on the city water tower at 213 College Street
     2011
67   10-3-  Leasing space on the city water tower to Easy Net Wireless
     2011
 
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS, AGREEMENTS, AND FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed Description
No.
14     4-4-   Granting a franchise to operate a natural gas distribution plant and system
       2005   in the city to Missouri Gas Energy, a division of Southern Union Company
16     8-2-   Approving an agreement with the County Clerk, the County Collector, and the
       2005   county relating to the collection of taxes
26     10-2-  Approving a water service contract with Charles Lee Schlotzhauer and Linda
       2006   Schlotzhauer. Repealed by Ord. 58
27     10-2-  Approval of a sewer service contract with Charles Lee Schlotzhauer and Linda
       2006   Schlotzhauer
28     11-6-  Approving a contract of agreement on solid waste collection by Otis and Sons
       2006   Trash Disposal, Inc.
       5-7-   Approving consent to assignment of a contract on solid waste collection
30     2007   between the city and Otis and Sons Trash Disposal, Inc. to a new contractor,
              Veolia ES Solid Waste Management Midwest, LLC
       1-5-   Renewing a franchise and granting for a period of 20 years to excavate for,
41     2009   place, maintain, operate, and use all equipment, facilities, devices,
              materials, apparatuses, or media to Union Electric Company d/b/a Amerenue
43     1-26-  Agreement for professional engineering services with Meco Engineering,
       2009   providing for an effective date
44     1-26-  Agreement for professional engineering services with Meco Engineering,
       2009   concerning water system improvements, providing for an effective date
       4-6-   Approval of financial advisory agreement with D.A. Davidson and Company of
45     2009   Kansas City, Missouri relating to the funding of the waterworks system
              revenue bonds
49     9-1-   Approving an agreement for legal representation by William J. Daily
       2009   regarding an unsafe building in the city owned by Bill and Brenda Bader
54     4-5-   Authorizing an extension of the agreement for professional engineering
       2010   services with Meco Engineering Company, Inc.
              Agreement with Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren UE permitting the
55     4-5-   erection, operation, and maintenance of poles, lines, wires, cables,
       2010   transformers, and other appliances in the streets and other public places of
              the city
58     7-6-   Approving a water service contract with Linda Schlotzhauer
       2010
64     5-2-   Approving an agreement for legal services, authorizing execution of document
       2011   by the Mayor and City Clerk to J. Michael Conway of Conway and Blanck L.C.
       8-6-   Approving an agreement for solid waste collection with Veolia, ES Solid
69     2012   Waste Midwest, LLC, relating to the pick up and disposal of all solid waste
              from residential and commercial units of the city
73     1-7-   Approving an agreement as to legal service, authorizing execution document
       2013   by the Mayor and the City Clerk
              Authorizing the Mayor to employ an attorney to assist the city in
74     4-8-   negotiating and closing a loan for the construction and operation of a sewer
       2013   system in the city and such other legal works as may be needed in
              conjunction with the construction and initial operation of the sewer
       3-3-   Enabling the city to join the Missouri Clean Energy District and stating the
79     2014   terms under which the city will conduct activities within the city as a
              member of such district
       2-2-   Terminating contracts between the city and the Mayfield Law Office and for
83     2015   payment deferred compensation for service performed by the Mayfield Law
              Office for the cityâ€™s wastewater and related sewer projects
       2-6-   Authorizing the city to employ an attorney to assist the Board of Aldermen
91     2017   in negotiating and closing a loan for the construction and operation of a
              sewer system
93     8-7-   Intergovernmental agreement to contract for building inspection services
       2017   with the City of Boonsville
              Authorizing the Mayor and the City Clerk to execute an agreement with the
       2-4-   stateâ€™s Highways and Transportation Commission for the install of
97     2019   pedestrian facilities along Fourth Street and Harris Street from Highway
              135/College Street to School Street constructed by project no. TAP-9901
              (516)
102    9-21-  Intergovernmental agreement to contract for building inspection services
       2020   with the City of Boonsville
       11-2-  Agreement for lighting by electricity of the streets, avenues, alleys, and
104    2020   other public places and other electric service requirements with Union
              Electric Company d/b/a Ameren Missouri
108    7-6-   Intergovernmental agreement for building inspection services between the
       2021   City of Boonville and the city
R2021- 6-7-   Approving intergovernmental agreement between the City of Boonville and the
07     2021   city in relation to Ord. 108
110    10-4-  Solid waste handling contract between he city and RTS Waste Services LLC for
       2021   three years, from November 1, 2021, to October 31, 2024
113    11-7-  Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to sign a special warranty deed between
       2022   the city and Earl F. Wessing and Lena P. Wessing
              Agreement for the ownership of water distribution mains and water service
115    3-6-   facilities installed on real estate situated on Bellair Estates pursuant to
       2023   the terms of a water service contract between the city and Linda
              Schlotzhauer
              Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute an agreement with the
              Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission for the installation of
116    11-6-  pedestrian facilities along College Street and Fourth Street, specifically
       2023   from Highway 135/college Street at Mt. Vernon Street and along Fourth Street
              from College Street to Harris Street constructed by project no. TAP-9901
              (542)
121    3-3-   Franchise agreement between the city and Spire Missouri Inc. to operate a
       2025   natural gas distribution system within the city
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Statutes of Missouri
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO REVISED STATUTES OF MISSOURI
RSMo. Cites Code Section
RSMo. Cites      Code Section
43.507           32.23
43.540           32.23
                 35.01;
Chapter 44       35.03;
                 35.05
70.815           32.07
70.837           35.06
71.943           10.14
79.050           32.01
79.280           31.08
84.340           133.04
Chapter 89       150.07
94.500—4.550   33.45
94.510           33.45
94.700           33.46
Chapter 115      34.01
115.124          31.26
115.125.1        34.07
115.306          34.04
Chapter 144      135.039
144.010—144.52733.45;
                 33.46
Chapter 195      111.09
                 135.036;
195.005—195.418135.037;
                 135.040
                 135.036;
195.010          135.037;
                 135.040
195.130          130.07
198.006          32.22;
                 32.23
211.031(1)(c)    130.07
211.031(1)(2)(d) 130.07
211.031(1)(3)    130.07
260.200—260.25454.05
260.360—260.43254.01
273.030          91.51
Chapter 288      36.19
301.010          70.01
301.071          75.030
301.130          70.52
301.130(5)       70.46
301.140          70.46
301.142          75.030
301.210          70.50
301.218          92.09
301.560          92.09
                 70.31;
Chapter 302      71.26;
                 73.113
302.010—302.78070.32
302.015          70.33
302.720          70.31
302.173          70.31
302.177          135.061
302.181          135.061
302.302          76.99
302.130          70.31
Chapter 303      71.26
303.025          70.15
303.230          70.15
303.240          70.15
Chapter 304      77.04
304.001          77.10
304.014—304.02573.009
304.022          71.30
304.029          70.01
304.034          70.01
304.044          73.014
304.050          73.012
304.050—304.07073.012
304.155—304.15892.08
304.156          92.07
Chapter 307      73.113
307.020—307.12076.01
307.350—307.40271.26
307.360          76.01
Chapter 311      111.08;
                 111.09
311.095(2)       111.01
319.200—319.207151.01
320.083          32.21
320.090          35.06
320.106          132.06
Chapter 333      73.030
Chapter 352      31.40
Chapter 353      31.40
Chapter 355      31.40
407.934(5)       135.057
429.010—429.360152.08
455.010          130.03
475.010          130.02
493.050          31.02
Chapter 517      36.17
Chapter 536      111.10
536.100—536.140152.10
536.130          152.10
536.150          152.10
552.030          32.22
556.021          130.01
556.061          130.01
556.061(17)      73.110
556.061(30)      130.01
556.061(44)      73.113
558.019          32.23
562.011          130.01
562.016          130.01;
                 133.05
Chapter 566      32.21
569.010          130.01
570.030          134.26
575.060          92.06
577.020—577.04173.112;
                 73.113
577.080          92.05
578.005—578.02391.51
Chapter 590      32.03;
                 32.05
590.100—590.18036.08
590.178          36.08
595.010—595.07532.23
595.045.5        36.08
610.011          31.41
610.023          31.41
610.100(4)       32.21
Chapter 621      135.056
660.250          32.22
                 154.42;
Chapter 700      154.46;
                 154.47
700.010          75.032;
                 76.05
                 
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section        2021 Code Section
100.010                   11.01
100.020                   11.02
100.030                   10.01
100.040                   10.02
100.050                   10.03
100.060                   10.04;
                          10.09
100.080                   10.04
100.090                   10.04
100.100                   10.16
100.110                   10.07
100.130                   10.17
100.140                   10.08
100.150                   10.04
100.160                   10.18
100.170                   10.18
100.180                   10.13
100.190                   10.04
100.200                   10.04
100.210                   10.04
100.220                   10.99
105.010                   34.01
105.020                   34.02
105.030                   34.03
105.035                   34.04
105.040                   34.05
105.050                   34.06
105.060                   34.07
110.010                   30.01
110.020                   30.02
110.030                   30.03
110.040                   30.04
110.050                   30.05
110.060                   30.06
110.070                   30.07
110.080                   30.08
110.090                   30.09
110.100                   30.10
110.110                   30.11
110.120                   30.12
110.130                   30.13
110.140                   30.14
110.150                   30.15
110.160                   30.16
110.170                   30.30
110.180                   30.31
110.190                   30.32
110.200                   30.33
115.010                   31.02
115.020                   31.03
115.030                   31.04
115.040                   31.05
115.050                   31.06
115.060                   31.07
115.070                   31.08
115.080                   31.09
115.090                   31.25
115.100                   31.02;
                          31.26
115.120                   31.27
115.130                   31.28
115.140                   31.10
115.150                   31.11
120.010                   31.40
120.020                   31.41
120.030                   31.42
120.040                   31.43
120.050                   31.44
120.060                   31.45
120.070                   31.46
120.080                   31.47
120.090                   31.48
120.100                   31.49
120.110                   31.50
120.120                   31.51
120.130                   31.52
120.140                   32.20
120.150                   32.21
120.160                   32.22
120.170                   32.23
120.180                   32.24
120.190                   32.25
125.010                   36.01
125.020                   36.02
125.030                   36.03
125.040                   36.04
125.050                   36.05
125.060                   36.06
125.070                   36.07
125.080                   36.08
125.090                   36.09
125.100                   36.10
125.110                   36.11
125.120                   36.12
125.130                   36.13
125.140                   36.14
125.150                   36.15
125.160                   36.16
125.170                   36.17
125.180                   36.18
125.190                   36.19
125.200                   36.20
125.210                   36.21
125.220                   36.22
125.230                   36.23
130.010                   33.01
130.020                   33.15
130.030                   33.16
130.040                   33.17
130.050                   33.18
130.060                   33.30
130.070                   33.31
130.080                   33.32
130.090                   33.33
130.100                   33.34
130.110                   33.45
130.120                   33.46
200.005                   32.01
200.007                   32.02
200.010                   32.03
200.020                   32.04
200.022                   32.05
200.024                   32.06
200.030                   32.07
205.010                   91.01
205.020                   91.02
205.021                   91.03
205.022                   91.04
205.023                   91.05
205.025                   91.06
205.027                   91.07
205.028                   91.08
205.029                   91.09
205.030                   91.10
205.040                   91.13
205.045                   91.14
205.050                   91.15
205.060                   91.16
205.070                   91.30
205.080                   91.31
205.090                   91.32
205.100                   91.33
205.110                   91.34
205.120                   91.35
205.130                   91.36
205.140                   91.50
205.150                   91.51
205.160                   91.52
210.005                   130.01
210.010                   130.02
210.015                   130.03
210.020                   130.04
210.030                   130.05
210.040                   130.06
210.050                   130.07
210.055                   130.08
210.060                   131.01
210.070                   131.02
210.080                   131.03
210.090                   131.04
210.100                   131.05
210.110                   131.06
210.120                   131.07
210.130                   131.08
210.140                   131.09
210.150                   131.10
210.160                   132.01
210.170                   132.02
210.180                   132.03
210.190                   132.04
210.200                   132.05
210.205                   132.06
210.207                   132.07
210.210                   133.01
210.220                   133.02
210.230                   133.03
210.240                   133.04
210.245                   133.05
210.250                   133.06
210.260                   133.07
210.270                   133.08
210.280                   133.09
210.290                   134.01
210.300                   134.02
210.305                   134.03
210.310                   134.04
210.320                   134.05
210.330                   134.06
210.335                   134.07
210.340                   134.08
210.350                   134.09
210.360                   134.25
210.365                   134.26
210.370                   134.27
210.375                   134.28
210.380                   134.29
210.390                   134.30
210.400                   134.31
210.410                   134.32
210.420                   134.33
210.425                   134.34
210.426                   134.10
210.427                   134.11
210.430                   135.075
210.440                   135.076
210.450                   135.077
210.460                   135.078
210.470                   135.079
210.480                   135.001
210.490                   135.015
210.495                   135.016
210.500                   135.017
210.503                   135.018
210.505                   135.019
210.510                   135.020
210.515                   135.035
210.520                   135.036
210.530                   135.037
210.532                   135.038
210.535                   135.039
210.540                   135.040
210.550                   135.041
210.560                   135.042
210.570                   135.043
210.580                   136.01
210.590                   136.02
210.600                   136.03
210.610                   135.055
210.620                   135.056
210.630                   135.057
210.640                   135.058
210.650                   135.059
210.660                   135.060
210.670                   153.061
210.680                   134.45
210.685                   134.46
210.690                   135.002
210.700                   133.10
210.710                   134.12
210.720                   134.13
215.010                   90.01
215.020                   90.02
215.030                   92.01
215.040                   92.02
215.050                   92.03
215.060                   92.04;
                          92.99
215.070                   92.05
215.080                   92.06
215.090                   92.07
215.100                   92.08
215.110                   92.09
215.120                   90.03
225.010                   35.01
225.020                   35.02
225.030                   35.03
225.040                   35.04
225.050                   35.05
225.060                   35.06
225.070                   35.07
225.080                   35.08
225.090                   35.09
230.010                   54.01
230.020                   54.02
230.030                   54.03
230.040                   54.04
230.050                   54.05
230.060                   54.06
230.070                   54.07
230.080                   54.08
230.090                   54.09
300.010                   70.01
300.020                   70.02
305.010                   71.01
305.020                   71.02
305.030                   71.03
305.040                   71.04
305.050                   71.05
305.060                   71.06
305.070                   71.07
310.010                   71.20
310.020                   71.21
310.030                   71.22
310.040                   71.23
310.050                   71.27
310.060                   71.28
310.070                   71.29
310.080                   71.30
310.080                   71.99
310.090                   71.31
310.100                   71.32
310.110                   71.33
310.120                   71.34
315.010                   72.01
315.020                   72.02
315.030                   72.03
315.040                   72.04
315.050                   72.05
315.060                   72.06
315.070                   72.07
315.080                   72.08
315.090                   72.09
315.100                   72.10
315.110                   72.11
315.120                   72.12
315.130                   72.13
315.140                   72.14
315.150                   72.15
320.010                   73.045
320.020                   73.046
320.030                   73.047
320.040                   73.048
320.050                   73.049
325.010                   73.060
325.020                   73.061
325.030                   73.062
325.040                   73.063
325.050                   73.064
330.010                   73.075
330.020                   73.076
330.030                   73.077
335.010                   73.090
335.020                   73.091
335.030                   73.092
335.040                   73.093
335.050                   73.094
335.060                   73.095
335.070                   73.096
335.080                   73.097
340.010                   73.001
340.020                   73.002
340.030                   73.030
340.030                   73.999
340.040                   73.031
340.050                   73.032
340.060                   73.003
340.070                   73.004
340.080                   73.005
340.090                   77.08
340.100                   77.09
340.110                   77.10
340.110                   77.99
340.120                   77.11
340.130                   73.006
340.140                   73.007
340.150                   73.008
340.160                   73.009
340.170                   73.010
340.180                   73.011
340.190                   73.012
340.200                   73.013
340.210                   73.014
340.220                   73.015
340.230                   73.016
342.010                   73.110
342.020                   73.111
342.030                   73.112
342.040                   73.113
342.050                   73.114
345.010                   74.01
345.020                   74.02
345.030                   74.03
345.040                   74.04
345.050                   74.05
345.060                   74.06
345.070                   74.07
345.080                   74.08
350.010                   75.001
350.020                   75.002
350.030                   75.003
350.040                   75.004
350.050                   75.005
355.010                   75.020
355.015                   75.021
355.020                   75.022
355.030                   75.023
355.040                   75.024
355.050                   75.025
355.060                   75.026
355.070                   75.027
355.080                   75.028
355.090                   75.029
355.100                   75.030;
                          75.999
355.110                   75.031;
                          75.999
360.010                   75.045
360.020                   75.046
360.030                   75.047
360.040                   75.048
360.050                   75.049
360.060                   75.050
360.070                   75.051
365.010                   75.065
365.020                   75.066
365.030                   75.067
365.040                   75.068
365.050                   75.069
365.060                   75.070
365.070                   75.071
370.010                   71.45
370.020                   71.46
370.030                   71.47
370.040                   71.48
375.010                   71.60
375.020                   71.61
375.030                   71.62
380.010                   76.20
380.020                   76.21
380.030                   76.22
380.040                   76.23
380.050                   76.24
380.050                   76.99
380.060                   76.25
380.070                   76.26
380.080                   76.27
380.090                   76.28
380.100                   76.29
380.110                   76.30
380.120                   76.31
380.130                   76.32;
                          76.99
380.140                   76.01
380.150                   76.02;
                          76.99
380.160                   76.03
380.170                   76.04;
                          76.99
380.180                   76.05;
                          76.99
380.200                   76.06
380.210                   76.07
380.220                   76.08
385.010                   77.01
385.020                   77.02
385.030                   77.03
385.040                   77.04
385.050                   77.05
385.070                   77.06
385.080                   77.07
390.010                   70.30
390.020                   70.31
390.030                   70.32
390.040                   70.33
390.050                   70.45
390.060                   70.46
390.070                   70.47
390.080                   70.48
390.090                   70.49
390.100                   70.50
390.110                   70.51
390.120                   70.52
390.130                   70.53
390.140                   70.15;
                          70.99
390.150                   70.16;
                          70.99
390.160                   70.17;
                          70.99
400.010                   150.01
400.020                   150.02
400.030                   150.03
400.040                   150.04
400.050                   150.05
400.060                   150.06
400.070                   150.07
410.010                   154.01
410.020                   154.02
410.030                   154.03
410.040                   154.15
410.050                   154.16
410.060                   154.17
410.070                   154.18
410.080                   154.19
410.090                   154.20
410.100                   154.21
410.110                   154.22
410.120                   154.23
410.130                   154.24
410.140                   154.25
410.150                   154.26
410.160                   154.27
410.170                   154.28
410.180                   154.29
410.190                   154.40
410.200                   154.41
410.210                   154.42
410.220                   154.43
410.230                   154.44
410.240                   154.45
410.250                   154.46
410.260                   154.47
410.270                   154.48
500.010                   151.01
500.015                   151.02
500.020                   151.15
500.030                   151.18
500.040                   151.19
500.050                   151.20
500.055                   151.21
500.060                   90.05
500.070                   151.04
505.010                   152.01
505.020                   152.02
505.030                   152.03
505.040                   152.04
505.050                   152.05
505.060                   152.06
505.070                   152.07
505.080                   152.08
505.090                   152.09
505.100                   152.10
505.110                   152.11
505.120                   152.12
510.010                   153.01
510.020                   153.02
510.030                   153.03
510.040                   153.04
510.050                   153.05
510.060                   153.06
510.070                   153.07
510.080                   153.08
510.090                   153.09
510.120                   153.99
510.130                   153.10
510.140                   153.10
510.150                   153.10
510.160                   153.25
510.170                   153.26
510.180                   153.27
510.190                   153.28
510.200                   153.29
510.210                   153.30
510.220                   153.31
510.230                   153.32
600.010                   111.01
600.015                   111.02
600.020                   111.03
600.030                   111.04
600.040                   111.05
600.050                   111.06
600.060                   111.07
600.070                   111.08
600.080                   111.09
600.090                   111.10
600.100                   111.11
600.110                   111.99
605.010                   110.01
605.015                   110.02
605.020                   110.03
605.030                   110.04
605.040                   110.05
605.050                   110.06
605.055                   110.07
605.060                   110.08
605.070                   110.09
605.080                   110.10
605.090                   110.11
605.100                   110.12
605.110                   110.99
605.120                   113.01
605.130                   113.02
605.170                   113.15
605.180                   113.16
615.010                   112.01
615.020                   112.02
615.030                   112.03
615.040                   112.04
615.050                   112.05
615.060                   112.06
620.010                   110.25
620.020                   110.26
620.030                   110.27
620.040                   110.28
700.010                   50.15
700.020                   50.16
700.030                   50.17
700.040                   50.18
700.050                   50.19
700.060                   50.20
705.010                   51.15
705.030                   51.17
705.040                   51.18
705.050                   51.19
705.060                   51.20
705.070                   51.99
705.080                   51.01
705.090                   51.02
710.010                   51.03
710.020                   52.01
710.030                   52.02
710.040                   52.03
710.050                   52.04
710.060                   52.05
710.070                   52.06
710.080                   52.07
710.090                   52.08
710.100                   52.09
710.110                   52.10
715.010                   53.01
715.020                   53.02
715.030                   53.03
715.040                   53.04
715.050                   53.05
715.060                   53.06
715.070                   53.07
715.080                   53.99
Schedule I                Ch. 78, Schd. I
Schedule II, Table II-A   Ch. 78, Schd. II
Schedule II, Table II-B   Ch. 78, Schd. III
Schedule III, Table III-A Ch. 78, Schd. IV
Schedule III, Table III-B Ch. 78, Schd. V
                          
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
R2021-07 6-7-2021    TSO Table III
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
5.070#2  6-2-1941    110.04
5.070#2  12-28-1974  110.04
2        7-8-2003    154.43
4        11-3-2003   111.03;
                     111.04
5        12-2-2003   Ch. 78, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 78, Schd. III
6        1-5-2004    91.11
7        1-5-2004    133.01
8        3-1-2004    75.032;
                     75.999
9        6-7-2004    111.05
10       8-9-2004    151.03
11       8-9-2004    154.45
12       9-8-2004    TSO Table II
13       9-8-2004    TSO Table II
14       4-4-2005    TSO Table III
16       8-2-2005    TSO Table III
18       11-7-2005   54.09
19       11-7-2005   133.10
25       10-2-2006   TSO Table II
26       10-2-2006   TSO Table III
27       10-2-2006   TSO Table III
28       11-6-2006   TSO Table III
28.1     2-2-2007    75.031
30       5-7-2007    TSO Table III
31       7-2-2007    TSO Table I
32       9-4-2007    50.01
33       1-7-2008    51.16
34       4-7-2008    Ch. 78, Schd. II
36       8-4-2008    70.01;
                     71.26
37       8-4-2008    51.02
39       9-1-2008    77.99
                     91.13;
40       11-5-2008   91.14;
                     91.15
41       1-5-2009    TSO Table III
42       3-2-2009    91.12;
                     91.99
43       1-26-2009   TSO Table III
44       1-26-2009   TSO Table III
45       4-6-2009    TSO Table III
46       4-6-2009    53.08
                     51.35;
                     51.36;
                     51.37;
                     51.38;
                     51.39;
                     51.40;
47       7-6-2009    51.41;
                     51.42;
                     51.43;
                     51.44;
                     51.45;
                     51.46;
                     51.47
                     51.35;
47-A     9-1-2009    51.40;
                     51.41
49       9-1-2009    TSO Table III
                     50.35—
50       12-1-2009   50.40;
                     51.02;
                     51.16
51       12-7-2009   34.02
                     151.16;
53       2-1-2010    151.17;
                     152.05
54       4-5-2010    TSO Table III
55       4-5-2010    TSO Table III
56       4-5-2010    133.01
57       6-7-2010    154.03
58       7-6-2010    TSO Table III
                     70.01;
60       11-1-2010   71.24;
                     71.25;
                     71.99
                     155.01—
                     155.10,
                     155.25—
63       4-21-2011   155.28,
                     155.40—
                     155.43,
                     155.55—
                     155.61
64       5-2-2011    TSO Table III
65       10-3-2011   91.17
66       10-3-2011   TSO Table II
67       10-3-2011   TSO Table II
                     Ch. 78, Schd. I;
68       4-2-2012    Ch. 78, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 78, Schd. III
69       8-6-2012    TSO Table III
71       1-7-2013    51.15;
                     51.16
72       1-7-2013    91.04
73       1-7-2013    TSO Table III
74       4-8-2013    TSO Table III
77       10-7-2013   Ch. 78, Schd. II
78       3-3-2014    150.20—
                     150.22
79       3-3-2014    TSO Table V
                     114.01—
80       3-3-2014    114.05;
                     114.99
                     90.01;
                     90.03;
81       12-1-2014   90.04;
                     90.99;
                     92.01
83       2-2-2015    TSO Table III
84       2-2-2015    31.01
86       8-3-2015    Ch. 78, Schd. II
90       10-3-2016   111.03
91       2-6-2017    TSO Table III
93       8-7-2017    TSO Table III
94       11-6-2017   50.55—
                     50.60
95       3-5-2018    112.07
97       2-4-2019    TSO Table III
100      9-9-2019    TSO Table I
102      9-21-2020   152.05;
                     TSO Table III
103      11-2-2020   33.02
104      11-2-2020   TSO Table III
108      7-6-2021    TSO Table III
110      10-4-2021   TSO Table III
                     53.01—
111      8-8-2022    53.07;
                     53.09;
                     53.99
112      10-3-2022   53.08;
                     53.99
113      11-7-2022   TSO Table III
114      2-6-2023    51.03
115      3-6-2023    TSO Table III
116      11-6-2023   TSO Table III
118      7-8-2024    Ch. 78, Schd. II
120      12-9-2024   70.02
121      3-3-2025    TSO Table III
                    
 
 
