TOWN CODE
OF
TERRY, MT
Code current through:
Ord. 2020-02, passed 7-13-2020
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Terry, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2020-02, passed 7-13-2020.  Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-03
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE TERRY, MONTANA TOWN CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Town Council of the Town of Terry, Montana, as
follows:
Section 1:
From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Town Code of the Town
of Terry, Montana prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the compilation of
all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the Town, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law of the
Town as enacted by the Mayor and Town Council.
Section 2:
There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the loose-leaf
type of binding together with the continuous supplement service, provided by
Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and
permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
official Town Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the
proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
Section 3:
All ordinances of a general nature included in this official Town Code shall be
considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact that some
provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body shall not
serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of ordinances
included in said official Town Code. All ordinances of a special nature, such
as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and
annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Town Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official Town Code.
Section 4:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Town to be misrepresented
thereby.
Section 5:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the extent
of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6:
This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication
as provided by law.
DATE OF EFFECT:
This ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days from the date of its final
passage by the Town Council.
FIRST READING AND PASSAGE by a majority vote of the members present this 18th
day of July, 2016
   YEAS   4                      NAYS   0 
      /s/        
      Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/   
Town Clerk
POSTED IN THREE (3) PUBLIC PLACES AND MADE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC this 22nd
day of July, 2016.
/s/   
Town Clerk
SECOND READING AND PASSAGE by a majority vote of the members present this 11th
day of August, 2016
   YEAS   4                      NAYS   0 
      /s/        
      Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/   
Town Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
TERRY TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official town code of Terry. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the TERRY TOWN CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
town clerk when directed so to do by order of the town council. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town,
or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of the
town's indebtedness.
   B.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for town officers.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
   F.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
   G.   Improvement ordinances.
   H.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   I.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the town.
   J.   All special ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The town council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   D.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   E.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   F.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive, and the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   G.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the town of Terry".
   I.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1976 Code §
1.04.030; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CODE: The town code of the town of Terry, Montana.
COUNCIL: The town council of the town of Terry, Montana. "All its members" or
"all council members" means the total number of council members holding office.
COUNTY: The county of Prairie, Montana.
MCA: Montana Code Annotated, as amended.
MAYOR: The mayor of the town.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Montana as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
TOWN: The town of Terry, county of Prairie, state of Montana. (1976 Code §
1.04.030; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Jurisdiction
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanor Or Infraction Offenses: Unless a different penalty is
specifically provided elsewhere in this code, any person who shall violate any
of the provisions of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding six (6) months, or by such fine and imprisonment for each
such misdemeanor offense; or by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00) when the offense is designated as an infraction by state law or by
any section or provision of this code, or if the infraction is a repeat
offense, a penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each repeat
violation. Every day that a violation continues after the first day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (1976 Code § 1.16.020; amd. 2016
Code)
      2.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A1
of this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than or less than
that established by state statute for the same offense; nor shall terms of
imprisonment be greater than that established by state statute for the same
offense. (2016 Code)
   B.   Judgment To Pay Fine Constitutes Lien: A judgment that the defendant
pay a fine or costs constitutes a lien upon the real estate of the defendant,
which lien dates from the date of the defendant's arrest. (1976 Code §
1.16.030)
   C.   Execution On Fine Or Imprisonment:
      1.   If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as
on a judgment in a civil case. (1976 Code § 1.16.040)
      2.   If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment until fine be paid,
the defendant must be committed to the custody of the proper officer, and by
him detained until the judgment is complied with. The imprisonment shall not
exceed that amount set by resolution of the Prairie County board. (1976 Code §
1.16.040; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-5-4207.
1-4-2: JURISDICTION:
   A.   The town has jurisdiction to impose penalties and fines within its
corporate limits.
   B.   Measures of a regulatory or penal nature may be imposed by the town
over the territory occupied by the town public works, and over and along the
line of reservoirs, streams, trenches, pipes, drains, and other appurtenances
used in the construction and operation of such works.
   C.   Health and quarantine ordinances and regulations may be enforced in and
over all places within the boundaries of the town.
   D.   The law enforcement officer of the town may make arrests of persons
charged with crime within the limits of the town. (1976 Code § 1.16.010; amd.
2016 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any town officer or
employee shall be so construed so as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the town council to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The corporate seal of the town shall consist of two (2)
concentric circles with the words "Town of Terry" on the upper side and the
words "Prairie County, Montana" on the lower side, written between and in the
center shall be inscribed "Seal", and the same is hereby adopted and declared
to be the seal of the town to be used in all cases required by law and
ordinance. (1976 Code § 1.18.010)
   B.   Mayor Custodian: The mayor shall be the custodian of the corporate seal
and shall affix such to all acts requiring to be so authenticated. (1976 Code §
1.18.030)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Ward Boundaries
1-6-1: WARD BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Ward One: Ward one shall embrace and comprise all of that part of the
original corporate town of Terry and that part of the Fillenworth Addition to
said town, which has been taken into the corporate limits of the town, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the corporate limits on the north side of said town of Terry and
west of Logan Avenue, the boundary line of section 16, running thence south to
the south boundary line of said Fillenworth Addition of the said town.
(1976 Code § 1.20.010)
   B.   Ward Two: Ward two shall embrace and comprise all of that part of the
original corporate town of Terry and that part of the Fillenworth Addition to
said town, which has been taken into the corporate limits of the said town,
bounded and described as follows:
All of the territory lying south of the north boundary line of the corporate
limits of the town of Terry and lying east of Logan Avenue, thence south to the
south boundary line of the Fillenworth Addition to said town of Terry.
(1976 Code § 1.20.020)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Mayor
1-7-2: Qualifications Of Council Members
1-7-3: Powers Of Council
1-7-4: Council Meetings
1-7-5: Voting By Members
1-7-6: Quorum
1-7-7: Rules Of Council
1-7-8: Ordinances
1-7-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: No person shall be eligible to the office of mayor
unless he shall be at least twenty one (21) years old, a resident of the state
for at least three (3) years, and a resident of the town or an area which has
been annexed by the town, two (2) years next preceding his election to said
office. The mayor shall reside in the town during his term of office. (1976
Code § 2.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Powers Enumerated: The mayor is the chief executive officer of the
town, and has power:
      1.   To nominate and, with the consent of the council, to appoint all
nonelective officers of the town, provided for by the council, except as
provided in Montana Code Annotated title 7.
      2.   To suspend and, with the consent of the council, to remove any
nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof.
      3.   To cause the ordinances of the town to be executed, and to supervise
the discharge of official duties by all subordinate officers.
      4.   To communicate to the council, at the beginning of every session,
and more often if deemed necessary, a statement of the affairs of the town,
with such recommendations as he may deem proper.
      5.   To recommend to the council such measures connected with the public
health, cleanliness, and ornament of the town, and the improvement of the
government and finances, as he deems expedient.
      6.   To approve all ordinances and resolutions of the council adopted by
it, and, in case the same do not meet his approbation, to return the same to
the next regular meeting of the council, with his objections in writing. No
ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the mayor shall go into effect unless the
same be afterward passed by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the whole number of
members of the council.
      7.   To veto any objectionable part of a resolution or ordinance, and
approve the other parts. If the mayor fails to return any resolution or
ordinance as aforesaid, the same takes effect without further action.
      8.   To call special meetings of the council, and when so called, he must
state by message the object of the meeting, and the business of the meeting
must be restricted to the object stated.
      9.   To cause to be presented, once in three (3) months, a full and
complete statement of the financial condition of the town.
      10.   To bid in for the town any property sold at a tax or judicial sale,
where the town is a party or interested.
      11.   To procure and have in his custody the seal of the city.
      12.   To take and administer oaths. (1976 Code § 2.08.020)
      13.   To request that the governor call out the militia to aid him in
suppressing riots or other disorderly conduct, preventing and extinguishing
fires, for securing the peace and safety of the town, or for carrying into
effect any law or ordinance. (1976 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2016 Code)
      14.   To require of any of the officers of the town an exhibit of his
books and papers.
      15.   To grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses
against town ordinances, when in his judgment public justice would be thereby
subserved; but he must report all pardons granted, with the reasons therefor,
to the next council.
      16.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the council.
      17.   To have such power as may be vested in him by ordinance of the
town, in and over all places within five (5) miles of the boundaries of the
town, for the purpose of enforcing the health and quarantine ordinances and
regulations thereof. (1976 Code § 2.08.020)
   C.   Preside At Council Meetings; Sign Warrants: The mayor, as the presiding
officer of the council, shall sign the journals thereof, and all warrants on
the town treasury, and decide by his vote all ties, and has no other vote.
(1976 Code § 2.08.030)
1-7-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
No person is eligible for the office of council member unless such person is a
resident for at least sixty (60) days preceding the election to office of the
ward electing the person, or of an area which has been annexed by the town and
placed in the ward. (1976 Code § 2.12.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-7-3: POWERS OF COUNCIL:
The town council shall have the following powers:
   A.   Generally: To make and pass all bylaws, ordinances, orders and
resolutions, not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or of the
state of Montana, or of the provisions of state law, necessary for the
government or management of the affairs of the town, for the execution of the
powers vested in the town council, and for carrying into effect the provisions
of Montana Code Annotated title 7. (1976 Code § 2.12.060)
   B.   Prescribe Duties And Compensation: To fix compensation, and to
prescribe the duties of all officers and other employees of the town, subject
to the limitations mentioned in the Montana Code Annotated. (1976 Code §
2.12.070)
   C.   Obtain Reports: To require from an officer at any time a report in
detail of the transactions in his office, or any matter connected therewith.
(1976 Code § 2.12.080)
   D.   Make Contracts: To make any and all contracts necessary to carry into
effect the powers granted by state law, and to provide for the manner of
executing the same. (1976 Code § 2.12.090)
   E.   Authorize Arrests: To make regulations authorizing the law enforcement
officer of the town to make arrests of persons charged with crime, within the
limits of the town. (1976 Code § 2.12.100; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Impose Penalties: To impose fines and penalties for the violation of
any town ordinance, but no fine or penalty shall exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), and no imprisonment shall exceed six (6) months for any one offense.
(1976 Code § 2.12.110)
1-7-4: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The town council shall hold a regular meeting for the
transaction of town business on the second Thursday in each month, and such
other meetings to which the council, by order, may adjourn, or which may be
called. (Ord. 2.12.020, 9-13-2012)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor, or at
the request of three (3) members of the council. When special meetings are
called, the clerk shall give reasonable notice thereof, in writing, to the
mayor and all members of the council present in the town. (1976 Code §
2.12.020)
1-7-5: VOTING BY MEMBERS:
The ayes and noes must be called and recorded on the final passage of an
ordinance, bylaw, or resolution, or making any contract, and the voting on the
election or appointment of any officer must be viva voce, and a majority of the
whole number of the members elected is requisite to appoint or elect an
officer, and such vote must be recorded. (1976 Code § 2.12.050)
1-7-6: QUORUM:
A majority of the members of the council constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a less number may meet and adjourn to any time
stated, and may compel the attendance of absent members under such rules and
penalties as the council may prescribe. (1976 Code § 2.12.030)
1-7-7: RULES OF COUNCIL:
The council may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members for
improper conduct, and expel any member for the same by a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the members elected, and must cause to be kept a journal of the proceedings;
which must be open to inspection. (1976 Code § 2.12.040)
1-7-8: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Style; Publication: The style of ordinances may be as follows: "Be it
ordained by the council of the town of Terry". All ordinances may be published
or posted, as prescribed by the council. (1976 Code § 1.12.010)
   B.   Passage And Approval; Recorded In Ordinance Book: All ordinances,
bylaws and resolutions must be passed by the council and approved by the mayor,
or the person acting in his stead, and must be recorded in a book kept by the
town clerk called "the ordinance book", and numbered in the order in which they
are passed. (1976 Code § 1.12.020; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Technical Codes:
      1.   The governing body of the town may adopt technical building, zoning,
health, electrical, fire, and plumbing codes in whole or in part by reference.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to final action by the council, notice of
intent to adopt a technical code, in whole or in part by reference, shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, and one copy of
the code, or part to be adopted, shall be filed with the town clerk for
inspection by the public. (1976 Code § 1.12.030; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   If a technical code, or part of a code, is adopted by reference, a
record in the ordinance book may be made by recording the ordinance without
setting forth the provisions of the code, or part of a code, adopted. (1976
Code § 1.12.030)
   D.   One Subject: No ordinance shall be passed containing more than one
subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, except ordinances for
the codification and revision of ordinances. (1976 Code § 1.12.040; amd. 2016
Code)
   E.   Effective Date: No ordinance or resolution passed by the town council
shall become effective until thirty (30) days after its passage, except general
appropriation ordinances providing for the ordinary and current expenses of the
town and, excepting also emergency measures. In the case of emergency measures,
the emergency must be expressed in the preamble or in the body of the measure,
and the measure must receive a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members
elected. In emergency ordinances, the resolutions shall include only such
measures as are immediately necessary for the preservation of peace, health,
and safety, and shall not include a franchise or license to a corporation or
individual, nor any provisions for the sale of real estate, nor any lease or
letting of any property for a period exceeding one year, nor the purchase or
sale of personal property exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in value.
(1976 Code § 1.12.050)
CHAPTER 8
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Principal Officers
1-8-2: Elective And Appointive Officers
1-8-3: Eligibility To Office
1-8-4: Commencement Of Term
1-8-5: Vacancy Of Office
1-8-6: Removal Of Officer By Council
1-8-7: Right To Abolish Office
1-8-8: Consolidation Of Appointive Offices
1-8-9: Indemnification Of Officers And Employees
1-8-10: Oath And Bond Requirements
1-8-11: Public Employees Retirement System
1-8-12: Salaries
1-8-1: PRINCIPAL OFFICERS:
   A.   Executive: The executive officers of the town are the mayor and such
officers for the assessment, collection, auditing, safekeeping, and disbursing
of the revenue, and keeping of the records and journals of the town as the town
council may provide.
   B.   Legislative: The legislative officers are the council members. There
may be a judicial officer termed a city judge, or a justice of the peace may
fill the office of city judge. (1976 Code § 2.04.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-2: ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Elective: The officers of the town consist of one mayor, and two (2)
council members from each ward, who must be elected by the qualified electors
of the town.
   B.   Appointive: There may be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the council, one town clerk, who may be ex officio assessor and a
member of the council, and the town attorney, and any other officers necessary
to carry out the provisions of the town ordinances and state law. (1976 Code §
2.04.020; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-3: ELIGIBILITY TO OFFICE:
No person is eligible to any town office, elective or appointive, who is not a
citizen of the United States. (1976 Code § 2.04.030; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-4: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM:
The terms of all officers elected at a municipal election are to commence on
the first Monday in January after such election. Appointive officers shall
commence their employment within ten (10) days after receiving notice of their
appointment. (1976 Code § 2.04.040; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-5: VACANCY OF OFFICE:
   A.   Vacancy: An office becomes vacant upon the happening of any of the
events as listed in Montana Code Annotated section 7-4-4111. (1976 Code §
2.04.050; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Filling Vacancy In Elective Office:
      1.   When a vacancy occurs in any elective office, this position is
considered open and subject to nomination and election at the next general
municipal election in the same manner as the election of any other person
holding the same office, except the term of office is limited to the unexpired
term of the person who originally created the vacancy. Pending an election and
qualification, the council shall, by a majority vote of the members, appoint a
person within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to hold the office until a
successor is elected and qualified.
      2.   If all council positions become vacant at one time, the board of
county commissioners shall appoint persons within five (5) days to hold office
as a town council member. The appointed town council member shall then appoint
persons to any other vacant elective offices.
      3.   A vacancy in the office of town council member must be filled from
the ward in which the vacancy exists. (1976 Code § 2.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-6: REMOVAL OF OFFICER BY COUNCIL:
The town council, upon written charges to be entered upon their journal, after
notice to the party and after trial by the council, by vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of all the members elect, may remove any nonelected officer 1 . (1976 Code §
2.04.070; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-7-1B2 of this title for removal of nonelective
  officers by the mayor, with consent of the council.
1-8-7: RIGHT TO ABOLISH OFFICE:
The town council has the power to abolish any office, the appointment to which
is made by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council, and discharge
any officer so appointed, by a majority vote of the council; however, no office
created under Montana Code Annotated title 7 may be abolished by the council.
(1976 Code § 2.04.080)
1-8-8: CONSOLIDATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICES:
The town council may, by ordinance, consolidate any of the offices, the
appointment to which is made by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
council, and may require any of the elected officers to perform any of the
duties of an appointed officer whose office has been abolished. (1976 Code §
2.04.090)
1-8-9: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
In any civil action brought against any public official or employee of the town
alleging a violation of initiative 75, the town shall defend the action on
behalf of the official or employee and indemnify the official or employee for
any liability resulting from the alleged violation of initiative 75. (Ord.
2.04.150, 2-9-1999)
1-8-10: OATH AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Oath And Bond:
      1.   Each officer of the town must take the oath of office.
      2.   Any officer that is required to give bond shall file the same, duly
approved, within ten (10) days after receiving notice of his election or
appointment, or if no notice be received, then on or before the date fixed for
the assumption by him of the duties of the office to which he may have been
elected or appointed. (1976 Code § 2.04.110)
   B.   Bonding Of Officers And Employees: Elected or appointed town officers
and employees shall be bonded in such sums as ordinance or state law may
require. The amount for which a town officer or employee shall be bonded shall
be based on the amount of money or property handled and the opportunity to
defalcation. The town council shall actively solicit offers on a competitive
basis from available qualified insurance or surety companies before purchasing
the bonds. (1976 Code § 2.04.120)
   C.   Purchase Of Bonds: The council shall purchase all surety bonds for town
officers and employees. A bond may cover an individual officer or employee or a
blanket bond may cover all officers and employees, or any group or combination
of officers and employees. (1976 Code § 2.04.130)
   D.   Bond Conditions:
      1.   The condition of every official bond must be that the principal
shall well, truly and faithfully perform all official duties then required of
him by law, and also such additional duties as may be imposed on him by any
laws of the state or the town subsequently enacted, and that he will account
for and pay over and deliver to the person or officer entitled to receive the
same all monies or other property that may come into his hands as such officer.
The principal and sureties upon any official bond are also in all cases liable
for the neglect, default, or misconduct in office of any deputy, clerk, or
employee, appointed or employed by such principal.
      2.   All official bonds must be signed and executed by the principal and
two (2) or more sureties, or by the principal and one or more surety companies
organized as such under the laws of the state, or licensed to do business
herein. (1976 Code § 2.04.140)
1-8-11: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Resolution Of Intent: The town council, on March 12, 1974, passed a
resolution of intention calling for an election among the employees of the town
on March 19, 1974, to determine whether the employees desired such retirement
coverage; and at said election, twelve (12) of the sixteen (16) employees
voted, and voted unanimously to join the Montana public employees retirement
system. (1976 Code § 2.26.010)
   B.   Authorization: The council passed a resolution authorizing the mayor
and town clerk to sign a contract carrying out the purpose of that resolution
which authorizes the withholding of specified percentages of the wages of each
employee and the payment of a specified percentage by the employer. (1976 Code
§ 2.26.020)
   C.   Execution Of Contract: It is ordained by the town council that the
mayor and town clerk be authorized to execute the contract on behalf of the
town, and to contract with the Montana public employees retirement service for
such retirement plan, and to withhold from each covered employee the amount of
wages specified by law, and to pay out of town funds the employer's share of
such wages, all as specified in said contract. (1976 Code § 2.26.030)
1-8-12: SALARIES:
The town council shall, by ordinance or resolution, annually fix the salaries
and compensation of the town officers and employees. (1976 Code § 2.04.100;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Town Clerk
1-9-2: Town Treasurer
1-9-3: Consolidation Of Offices Of Clerk And Treasurer
1-9-4: Town Attorney
1-9-1: TOWN CLERK:
   A.   Appointment: The town clerk shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to
approval by the town council. (2016 Code)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the town clerk:
      1.   To attend all meetings of the council, to record and sign the
proceedings thereof, and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions, and contracts
passed, adopted, or entered into, and to sign, number, and keep a record of all
licenses, commissions, or permits granted or authorized by the council.
      2.   To enter in a book all ordinances, resolutions, and bylaws passed
and adopted by the council; such book is called "The Ordinance Book".
      3.   To enter in a book kept for that purpose the date, amount, and
person in whose favor and for what purpose warrants are drawn upon the town
treasury; such book is called "The Finance Book".
      4.   To countersign and cause to be published or posted, as provided by
law, all ordinances, bylaws or resolutions passed and adopted by the council.
      5.   To file and keep all records, books, papers, or property belonging
to the town, and to deliver the same to his successor when qualified.
      6.   To make and certify copies of all records, books, and papers in his
possession, on the payment of like fees as are allowed county clerks, which
fees must be paid into the town treasury.
      7.   To make and keep a complete index of the journal ordinance book,
finance book, and all other books and papers on file in his office.
      8.   To perform such duties in and about the assessment, levy, and
collection of taxes and assessments as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
      9.   To take and administer oaths, but must not charge or receive any
fees therefor.
      10.   To perform such other and further duties as the council may
prescribe. (1976 Code § 2.08.040)
1-9-2: TOWN TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The town treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor,
subject to approval by the town council. (2016 Code)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the town treasurer:
      1.   To receive all monies that come to the town, either from taxation or
otherwise, and to pay the same out on the warrant of the mayor, countersigned
by the town clerk, drawn in accordance with law.
      2.   To perform such duties in the collection of taxes, licenses, or
assessments as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
      3.   To keep the books and accounts of the town in such manner as to
correctly present the condition of the finances thereof, which must always be
open to the inspection of the mayor, council, or any member thereof.
      4.   To keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the
debits and credits thereof.
      5.   To give every person paying to him money as treasurer, a receipt
therefor, specifying the date of payment, the amount, and for what paid.
      6.   To render at any time an account to the town council, showing the
money on hand and the condition of the treasury.
      7.   To keep a register of all warrants paid, called "The Registry Book",
which must show the date, amount, and number, and the person to whom, and the
fund from which the same was paid, and to deliver and file with the town clerk
all vouchers, warrants, or orders paid by him.
      8.   To annually make out and submit to the town council, at its last
meeting prior to May 1, a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
during the past fiscal year, file the same with the town clerk, and an abstract
thereof must be published in some newspaper in the town, or, if none is
published, such abstract must be posted in the room or building occupied by the
council.
      9.   To pay out, in the order which they are registered, all warrants
presented for payment, when there are funds in the treasury to pay the same.
      10.   To deposit all public monies in his possession and under his
control, excepting such as may be required for current business, in any solvent
bank or banks located in the town, subject to national supervision or state
examination, as the council shall designate, and no other, and the sums so
deposited shall bear interest. (1976 Code § 2.08.050)
1-9-3: CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES OF CLERK AND TREASURER:
The offices of town clerk and town treasurer may be consolidated by ordinance
of the town council pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 7-4-4106. (2016
Code)
1-9-4: TOWN ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The town attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, subject
to approval by the town council.
   B.   Term: The town attorney shall hold office for two (2) years unless
suspended or removed as provided by law.
   C.   Duties: The town attorney shall perform such duties as prescribed by
Montana Code Annotated section 7-4-4604. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 10
TOWN COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Town Court Established
1-10-2: Concurrent Jurisdiction
1-10-3: Exclusive Jurisdiction
1-10-4: Proceedings In Criminal Actions
1-10-5: Proceedings In Civil Actions
1-10-6: Town Judge
1-10-1: TOWN COURT ESTABLISHED:
A town court is established in the town. On judicial days, the court shall be
open for all business, civil and criminal. On nonjudicial days, as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 3-1-302, the court may transact criminal
business only. (1976 Code § 2.16.010)
1-10-2: CONCURRENT JURISDICTION:
The town court has concurrent jurisdiction with the justice's court of all
misdemeanors punishable by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or
by imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment
under the following conditions:
   A.   Any action charging the commission of an offense within the town or
town limits in violation of a town ordinance shall be brought in the name of
the town as the plaintiff and against the accused as the defendant.
   B.   Any other action brought for violation of a state law within the town
shall be brought in the name of the state of Montana as the plaintiff and
against the accused as the defendant.
   C.   Application for search warrants and complaints charging the commission
of a felony may be filed in the town court and when they are so filed, the town
judge shall have the same jurisdiction and responsibility as a justice of the
peace, including the holding of a preliminary hearing. The town attorney may
file an application for a search warrant or a complaint charging the commission
of a felony when the offense was committed within the town limits. The county
attorney, however, must handle any action after a defendant is bound over to
district court. (1976 Code § 2.16.020)
1-10-3: EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION:
The town court has exclusive jurisdiction:
   A.   Of all proceedings for the violation of any ordinance of the town, both
civil and criminal, which must be prosecuted in the name of the town.
   B.   Of any action for the collection of taxes and assessments levied for
town purposes; or for the erection or improvement of public buildings; for the
laying out, or opening, or improving any public street or sidewalk, alley, or
bridge; or for the purpose of or the improvement of any public grounds; or for
any and all public improvements made or ordered by the town within its limits,
when the amount of the tax or assessments sought to be collected against the
person assessed does not exceed nine thousand five hundred dollars ($9,500.00);
but no lien upon the property taxed or assessed for the nonpayment of the taxes
or assessment can be foreclosed in any such action.
   C.   Of an action for the collection of money due to the town or from the
town to any person when the amount sought to be collected, exclusive of
interest and costs, does not exceed nine thousand five hundred dollars
($9,500.00).
   D.   For the breach of any official bond given by any town officer, and for
the breach of any contract, and any action for damages in which the town is a
party, or is in any way interested; and all forfeited recognizances given to or
for the benefit or in behalf of the town; and upon all bonds given upon any
appeal taken from the judgment of the court in any action above named, where
the amount claimed, exclusive of costs, does not exceed nine thousand five
hundred dollars ($9,500.00).
   E.   For the recovery of personal property belonging to the town, when the
value of the property (exclusive of the damages for the taking of detention)
does not exceed nine thousand five hundred dollars ($9,500.00).
   F.   Of an action for the collection of any license required by any
ordinance of the town. (1976 Code § 2.16.030; amd. 2016 Code)
1-10-4: PROCEEDINGS IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS:
Proceedings in town courts in criminal actions triable in such courts are
regulated by Montana Code Annotated title 46, chapters 13 and 17. (1976 Code §
2.16.040)
1-10-5: PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS:
The proceedings of the town court in civil actions are regulated by Montana
Code Annotated title 25, chapter 23. (1976 Code § 2.16.050; amd. 2016 Code)
1-10-6: TOWN JUDGE:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The presiding officer of the town court shall be the
town judge. If none is elected or appointed by the town, the justice of the
peace or city/town judge of another city or town in Prairie County shall be the
town judge. (1976 Code § 2.16.060; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   When Judge Cannot Act: In all cases in which the judge is a party, or
in which said judge is interested, or when he is related to either party by
consanguinity or affinity within the sixth degree, and in case of his sickness,
absence, or inability to act, the town judge or mayor may call in a justice of
the peace or some qualified resident of the town to act in his place and stead.
(1976 Code § 2.16.070)
   C.   Collection Of Fines: The town judge shall collect all fines, costs and
forfeitures that accrue to the town from cases tried or disposed of in the town
court. He shall give a receipt therefor to the person paying the same, and pay
the collected monies to the treasurer of the town. (1976 Code § 2.16.080)
TITLE 2
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Fiscal Year
2-1-2: Borrowing Money
2-1-3: Yearly Financial Report
2-1-4: Inactive Accounts Transferred
2-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the town commences on July 1 of each year, and ends on June
30 of each year. (1976 Code § 3.04.010)
2-1-2: BORROWING MONEY:
The town council has power to contract an indebtedness on behalf of the town,
upon the credit thereof, by borrowing money or issuing bonds for the purposes
and to the extent specified by the constitution and laws of the state of
Montana. (1976 Code § 3.04.020)
2-1-3: YEARLY FINANCIAL REPORT 1 :
After the close of the fiscal year, the town clerk shall make out, in
duplicate, a complete statement of the financial condition of the town for that
fiscal year. The financial report shall be in a form prescribed by the state
department of administration and shall be completed and submitted to said
department for review within six (6) months of the end of the reporting period.
This report shall also be submitted to the town council. (1976 Code § 3.04.030;
amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 2-7-503.
2-1-4: INACTIVE ACCOUNTS TRANSFERRED:
Whenever the town council shall deem it necessary to remove inactive accounts
from its records where said accounts shall not have any further purpose, it
shall be lawful for the council to direct the proper town officials to file
claims against the respective inactive funds in favor of the general fund of
the town, after which the council shall allow the same and cause the inactive
funds to be closed and not continued in the record of active funds. (1976 Code
§ 3.04.040)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS; BIDDING PROCEDURE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Awarding Certain Contracts
2-2-2: Advertising For Bids
2-2-3: Emergencies
2-2-4: Reception Of Bids
2-2-5: Preparation Of Contract
2-2-6: Public Works Contractor's Bond
2-2-1: AWARDING CERTAIN CONTRACTS:
   A.   Letting Of Contract: All contracts of the town for the purchase of any
automobile, truck, or other vehicle or road machinery, or for any other
machinery, apparatus, appliances, or equipment or for any materials or supplies
of any kind, or for construction for which must be paid a sum exceeding eighty
thousand dollars ($80,000.00), or any lower amount that may be provided by
ordinance, must be let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertisement for
bids.
   B.   Vote By Electors: A contract may not be let pursuant to subsection A of
this section that extends over a period of five (5) years or more, except
contracts for solid waste management systems as defined in Montana Code
Annotated section 75-10-103, which may not exceed ten (10) years, or
obligations issued pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 7-7-4104, without
first submitting the question to a vote of the electors of the town. (1976 Code
§ 3.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
2-2-2: ADVERTISING FOR BIDS:
Advertisements required by section
2-2-1 of this chapter shall be made in the official newspaper of the town, if
there be such official newspaper and, if not, it shall be made in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in the town, if there be such, otherwise by
posting in three (3) of the most public places in the town. Such advertisement,
if by publication in a newspaper, shall be made once each week for two (2)
consecutive weeks and the second publication shall be made not less than five
(5) days nor more than twelve (12) days before the consideration of bids. If
such advertisement is made by posting, fifteen (15) days must elapse, including
the day of posting, between the time of the posting of such advertisement and
the day set for considering bids. (1976 Code § 3.08.020; amd. 2016 Code)
2-2-3: EMERGENCIES:
The provisions of section
2-2-2 of this chapter as to advertisement for bids shall not apply upon the
happening of any emergency caused by fire, flood, explosion, storm, earthquake,
riot or insurrection, or any other similar emergency, but, in such case, the
council may proceed in any manner which, in the judgment of three-fourths (3/4)
of the members of the town council present at the meeting, duly recorded in the
minutes of the proceedings of the council by aye and nay vote, will best meet
the emergency and serve the public interest. Such emergency shall be declared
and recorded at length in the minutes of the proceedings of the council at the
time the vote thereon is taken and recorded. (1976 Code § 3.08.030)
2-2-4: RECEPTION OF BIDS:
   A.   The bids shall be opened by the town clerk in the presence of the town
council while the council is in actual session at a regular, adjourned, or
special meeting. After the bids shall have been opened, the contract shall be
let or awarded by the council. The award shall be made to the lowest
responsible bidder.
   B.   The council may postpone action as to any such contract until the next
regular meeting after bids are received, or may reject any and all bids and
readvertise. (1976 Code § 3.08.040)
2-2-5: PREPARATION OF CONTRACT:
Upon receiving the statement of the awarding of a contract, it shall be the
duty of the town attorney to prepare a contract and bond in accordance with the
statement. All contracts shall be executed on the part of the town by the mayor
and attested by the town clerk, and together with the bond therefor, shall be
filed with the town clerk. (1976 Code § 3.08.050)
2-2-6: PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTOR'S BOND:
Whenever the town council shall contract with any person or corporation to do
any work for the town, the council shall require the corporation, person or
persons with whom such contract is made, to make, execute and deliver to the
council, a good and sufficient bond with two (2) or more sureties, or with a
surety company as surety, conditioned that such corporation, person or persons
shall faithfully perform all of the provisions of such contract, and pay all
laborers, mechanics, subcontractors and material suppliers, and all persons who
shall supply such corporation, person or persons, or subcontractors with
provisions, provender, material, or supplies for the carrying on of such work.
A copy of such bond shall be filed with the town clerk. (1976 Code § 3.08.060)
CHAPTER 3
MITIGATION RATES FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Mitigation Rates And Regulations
2-3-1: MITIGATION RATES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Initiation Of Rates: The town shall initiate mitigation rates for the
delivery of emergency services by the fire department for personnel, supplies
and equipment to the scene of motor vehicle incidents and other emergency
incidents as listed in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein on
file in the office of the town clerk. The mitigation rates shall be based on
actual costs of the services and that which is usual, customary and reasonable
(UCR) as shown in exhibit A, which may include any services, personnel,
supplies, and equipment and with baselines established by addendum to the
ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 2014-03, 10-9-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Filing Of Claim Costs: The mitigation rates shall be filed to the
responsible party, representing an add on cost of the claim for damages of the
vehicles, property and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the
insurance coverage of the owner of a vehicle, owner of property, or responsible
parties. In some circumstances, the responsible party will be billed directly.
   C.   Rules And Regulations With Respect To Billing: The fire department's
council may make rules or regulations and from time to time may amend, revoke,
or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this section, as they may
deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for these mitigation rates or
the collection thereof.
   D.   Formal Actions: It is found and determined that all formal actions of
the town council concerning and relating to the adoption of this section were
adopted in open meetings of the town council, and that all deliberations of the
town council and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions
were in accordance with all legal requirements, and the ordinances of the town
council.
   E.   Application Of Rates: These mitigation rates will only apply to persons
not residing within the town as the residents within the town boundaries
currently subsidize these emergency service costs through their property taxes.
Responses involving intoxicated drivers, hazmat clean up, and negligent acts
may be subject to all applicable rates regardless of residency. (Ord. 2014-03,
10-9-2014)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
3-1-1: Scope Of Chapter
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-4: Submission Of Application To Council
3-1-5: Examination Of Applicant
3-1-6: Grounds For Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-1-7: License Term
3-1-8: Collection Of Fees; Return Upon Denial
3-1-9: Unlawful Activities Not Licensed
3-1-10: Inspection Of Business
3-1-11: Council Control; Assignments
3-1-12: Renewal Of License
3-1-13: Record Of Licenses Issued
3-1-14: Separate License For Each Business
3-1-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this chapter apply to the issuance of every kind of license
or permit authorized by the town. Whenever a provision of a particular
licensing ordinance shall be deemed in conflict with any phrase or section of
this chapter, the provision of the particular licensing ordinance shall
prevail. (1976 Code § 5.04.010)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct any activity for which a license is required by the
town without first procuring a valid license therefor. (1976 Code § 5.04.030)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Every person desiring to conduct any business or
other activity in the town for which a license is required must file with the
town treasurer, on a form to be provided by the treasurer, an application for
license in writing.
   B.   Fee: The fee for such license must accompany the application. (1976
Code § 5.04.040)
   C.   Contents Of Application: The application shall set forth:
      1.   The name of applicant.
      2.   His place of permanent residence, and telephone number. (1976 Code §
5.04.040; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   His local business address, if any.
      4.   Date of his arrival in the town.
      5.   City or county from which last license, if any, received.
      6.   Description of the activity to be licensed, and its location.
      7.   Whether the applicant shall act as principal or agent.
      8.   If acting as agent, the name and place of business of the principal
or employer.
      9.   If the applicant is an agent, the principal's acknowledgment of such
agency must accompany the application. (1976 Code § 5.04.040)
   D.   Misrepresentation: No person shall wilfully misrepresent any material
fact in any license application made by him. (1976 Code § 5.04.180)
3-1-4: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION TO COUNCIL:
On receipt of any application for a license or other authorization to do
business, the treasurer shall submit the same to the town council at its next
regular or special session. (1976 Code § 5.04.050)
3-1-5: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   The town council may notify or cause to be notified, in writing, the
applicant to appear before the council for the purpose of further inquiry into
the facts and circumstances of the application and the fitness of the applicant
to be licensed. (1976 Code § 5.04.060)
   B.   The council may direct a law enforcement officer to investigate the
facts stated in each license application, the qualifications and character of
the applicant and the officers and owners of the firm to be licensed. (1976
Code § 5.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-6: GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Applicant: If the council shall determine that any applicant for a
license or any person interested in the ownership of any business sought to be
licensed are persons of such character that the business to be licensed may be
operated in such manner as to be detrimental to the public health, peace,
morals or general welfare of the town, such application shall be denied;
otherwise, the application shall be granted.
   B.   Premises: If the town council shall find, after investigation, that the
premises or buildings of the business to be operated under license are in
unsafe condition, or are constructed or operated in such a way as to be
detrimental to the public welfare, the council shall deny the application for
license. (1976 Code § 5.04.070)
3-1-7: LICENSE TERM:
Unless the town council shall provide otherwise, either by ordinance or in an
individual license, the term of every license issued under authority of this
title shall be for one year, and shall commence January 1 and end December 31.
(1976 Code § 5.04.080)
3-1-8: COLLECTION OF FEES; RETURN UPON DENIAL:
   A.   Collection: The town treasurer shall be charged with the collection of
the fees for the licenses required by this title. (1976 Code § 5.04.090)
   B.   License Denial; Return Of Fee: If a license application shall be
denied, the license fee that may have accompanied the application shall be
returned to the applicant. (1976 Code § 5.04.100)
3-1-9: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES NOT LICENSED:
No provision contained in this title shall be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession, or entertainment
prohibited by any law of the United States, of the state of Montana, or
prohibited by the provisions of this code or other ordinance of the town. (1976
Code § 5.04.020)
3-1-10: INSPECTION OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: Any business licensed under this title shall at all
times be subject to inspection by officials of the town. The licensee, and/or
employees of such licensee, shall at all times permit any official of the town
to enter the premises where such licensed business is conducted, for inspection
of such premises and the activity under license.
   B.   Obstructing Official Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to
restrict or obstruct any town official in the exercise of the right of entry to
a licensed premises or the inspection of any licensed activity. (1976 Code §
5.04.110)
3-1-11: COUNCIL CONTROL; ASSIGNMENTS:
   A.   Nothing contained in this title shall be construed to create any vested
right in any person, to the assignment, renewal, reissuance or continuance of
any license; the right thereto shall be always vested in the town council.
   B.   No licensee shall assign any license granted by the town, unless
authorized by the council in writing, or by ordinance. (1976 Code § 5.04.120)
3-1-12: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Application for renewal of a license shall be made in the same manner as
application for the original license. (1976 Code § 5.04.130)
3-1-13: RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED:
The town clerk shall keep a record of all licenses granted by the town, showing
for each license the date issued, to whom issued, the amount collected, the
date of expiration, the premises described therein, change of location, or
transfer, if any, and any other pertinent fact with reference thereto. (1976
Code § 5.04.140)
3-1-14: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH BUSINESS:
Except as otherwise provided, no license issued by the town council shall cover
more than one classification of license or more than one trade, business,
occupation, pursuit, vocation or entertainment. (1976 Code § 5.04.150)
3-1-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds:
      1.   Whenever the town council determines that any licensee is conducting
the activity licensed in a manner which violates this code or any ordinance or
regulation of the town, or operating the business licensed in any manner
detrimental to the public health, morals or welfare, the council may order the
suspension or revocation of the license.
      2.   The council may revoke or suspend any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation of any federal or
state statute. (1976 Code § 5.04.160; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Hearing; Notice: Before considering the suspension or revocation of any
license issued under this title, the council shall give the licensee an
opportunity to appear before it and be heard in relation to any matter under
investigation. The licensee shall be notified in writing of the time and place
of the hearing or investigation. (1976 Code § 5.04.170)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.04.190)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE RETAILERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application And Issuance
3-2-3: License Fees
3-2-4: Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person to whom a retail license has been issued under the Montana alcoholic
beverage code 1  shall engage in any activity for which he is so licensed
without first having also obtained an alcoholic beverage retailer's license
from the town. (1976 Code § 5.36.010)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 16, chs. 1 - 4, 6.
3-2-2: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE:
The town clerk shall issue an alcoholic beverage retailer's license to any
person to whom a retail license has been issued under the Montana alcoholic
beverage code when application is made upon a form to be provided by the clerk
and the required fee paid. (1976 Code § 5.36.020)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEES:
The town council may fix license fees, not to exceed a sum equal to five-
eighths (5/8) of the fee for an all beverages license or one hundred percent
(100%) of the fee for a beer or beer and wine license collected by the state
from such licensee, pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 16-4-503. (1976
Code § 5.36.030; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating section
3-2-1 of this chapter is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.36.040)
CHAPTER 3
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: License Required; Fee
3-3-3: Exceptions
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: Issuance Of License
3-3-6: Exhibition Of License Upon Demand
3-3-7: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
A "transient merchant", otherwise called itinerant vendor or peddler, is
defined as any person, whether acting as owner, agent, consignee or employee,
whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a temporary business of
selling, delivering, or offering for sale, goods, wares and merchandise and
subscriptions within the town and who, in furtherance of such purpose, uses, or
occupies the streets or alleys or sidewalks of the town or any structure, motor
vehicle, or other place within the town for the exhibition and sale of such
goods, wares and merchandise. (1976 Code § 5.08.010)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to engage in the business, trade or calling of itinerant merchant
within the corporate limits of the town, without first having obtained a
license to do so. (1976 Code § 5.08.020)
   B.   License Fee: The fee for a town license to engage in the business of
transient merchant is twenty five dollars ($25.00) a year. (1976 Code §
5.08.040)
3-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Bona fide merchants having regularly established places of business
within the town.
   B.   Any regularly licensed auctioneer.
   C.   Any scientific and literary lectures and entertainments.
   D.   Any local religious, charitable, social or eleemosynary institutions
when the agents so engaged are residents of the town and employed without
compensation or remuneration to further and advance the aims and purposes of
such local religious, charitable, social, or eleemosynary institutions.
   E.   Any regularly established and recognized charitable or welfare
institution or organization of and within the state and whose benefits are
available to any person within the state. (1976 Code § 5.08.030; amd. 2016
Code)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application; Contents: Every transient merchant desiring to
do business in the town shall, before commencing such business, file with the
treasurer, an application in writing. The application shall contain the
information required by subsection 3-1-3C of this title, and in addition,
provide the following information:
      1.   Give a brief descriptive list of articles to be offered for sale, or
services to be performed.
      2.   State whether payments or deposits of money are collected when
orders are taken, or in advance of final delivery.
   B.   Fee: At the time of filing the application, such transient merchant
shall accompany the application with the sum specified in subsection 3-3-2B of
this chapter as a license fee. (1976 Code § 5.08.050)
3-3-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance: Upon filing of the application prescribed in section
3-3-4 of this chapter, in proper form and upon the payment to the town
treasurer of the sum required by subsection 3-3-2B of this chapter, the
treasurer shall issue and deliver to the applicant a license to carry on the
business described in such application.
   B.   License Nontransferable: Such license shall be nontransferable and
shall have printed on the face thereof in bold type, the words, "not
transferable".
   C.   Endorsement, Filing Of License: The treasurer shall endorse upon each
application the date of issuance of the license and shall file such application
with the town clerk. (1976 Code § 5.08.060)
3-3-6: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE UPON DEMAND:
Every transient merchant doing business under the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon demand of any official of the town, exhibit his license and permit
the same to be read by the official making such demand. (1976 Code § 5.08.070)
3-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.08.080)
CHAPTER 4
SECONDHAND STORES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: License Required; Fee
3-4-3: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Secondhand dealer" means any person who engages in the business of buying or
selling secondhand goods, wares or merchandise of any kind whatever. (1976 Code
§ 5.16.010)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of secondhand
dealer within the town or own, operate or conduct a secondhand store unless he
has obtained a valid license issued by the town. (1976 Code § 5.16.020)
   B.   Fee: The fee for a town license to operate a secondhand store shall be
ten dollars ($10.00) per year. (1976 Code § 5.16.030)
3-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.16.040)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definition
3-5-2: License Required; Fee
3-5-3: Register Required; Examination
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITION:
Any person whose business it is to take or receive by way of pledge, pawn or
exchange, any goods, wares or merchandise, or any kind of personal property
whatever, for the repayment or security of money loaned thereon, shall be
deemed a pawnbroker. (1976 Code § 5.20.010)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker
within the town or own, operate or conduct a pawnshop unless he has obtained a
valid license issued by the town. (1976 Code § 5.20.020)
   B.   Fee: The fee for a town license to engage in the business of pawnbroker
shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per year. (1976 Code § 5.20.030; amd. 2016 Code)
3-5-3: REGISTER REQUIRED; EXAMINATION:
Every person who shall engage in the business of a pawnbroker in the town shall
keep a book in which shall be entered, in legible writing, a description of
every article taken as a pledge, pawn or security for money paid, advanced or
loaned thereon, together with the names and residences of the persons from whom
such property was purchased or taken. The register and the property so taken
shall at all times be subject to examination by any law enforcement officer, or
any person accompanied by a law enforcement officer. (1976 Code § 5.20.040;
amd. 2016 Code)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.20.050)
CHAPTER 6
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Grant Of Authority
3-6-3: Nonexclusive Grant
3-6-4: Term Of Franchise
3-6-5: Use Of Existing Facilities
3-6-6: Other Conditions
3-6-7: Transfer Of Franchise
3-6-8: Safety Requirements
3-6-9: Operational Standards; Force Majeure
3-6-10: Rates
3-6-11: Franchise Payments
3-6-12: Procedures Affecting System
3-6-13: Procedure Upon Termination
3-6-14: Indemnification Of Town
3-6-15: Miscellaneous Provisions
3-6-16: Line Severing
3-6-17: Application For Franchise
3-6-18: Maps
3-6-19: System Construction And Extension
3-6-20: Equal Protection
3-6-21: Violations; Penalties
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meanings herein given:
CATV: A cable television system.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system composed of, without limitation, antenna,
receivers, cables, wires, lines, towers, waveguides, or any other conductors,
converters, equipment or facilities, designed, constructed or wired for the
purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying and distributing by coaxial cable
radio, television or other electronic or electrical signals to and from
persons, subscribers and locations in the franchise area.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the boundaries of the town and the boundaries
as the same may be extended from time to time.
FRANCHISEE: A provider of a CATV.
GROSS REVENUES: Total subscriber revenues received by the franchisee within the
franchise area, but shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the
franchisee imposed on any subscriber or user by any government, governmental
unit, political subdivision, agency or instrumentality, and collected by the
franchisee.
PROPERTY OF FRANCHISEE: All property owned, installed or used by the franchisee
in the conduct of a CATV business in the town.
STREET: The surface of the space above and below any public street, way, place,
right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike path,
alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility easement, by
whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such within the franchise
area.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for CATV service. (1976
Code § 5.45.010)
3-6-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The town hereby grants to the franchisee the right and privilege to engage in
the business of operating and providing a CATV system within the town, and for
that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, resite, replace,
reconstruct, rebuild, maintain and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and
along any streets, alleys, avenues, parkways, lanes, bridges, utility
easements, laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions
thereto in the franchise area, such poles, wires, cable, conductors, ducts,
conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and
other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to the CATV system and in
addition, so to use, operate, and provide similar facilities or properties
rented or leased from other persons, including, but not limited to, any public
utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do business within the
town. (1976 Code § 5.45.020)
3-6-3: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
The franchise right and privilege herein set forth is not exclusive. The town
reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any qualified person or
persons at any time. (1976 Code § 5.45.030)
3-6-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall commence on the date that the
franchise is granted by the town council and shall continue in force and effect
for ten (10) years after the effective date. Upon application by the franchisee
to the town, the franchise may be renewed for a term or terms and on conditions
satisfactory to the town. (1976 Code § 5.45.040)
3-6-5: USE OF EXISTING FACILITIES:
   A.   The franchisee shall, whenever possible, make attachments to poles
already in existence within the town. The franchisee shall have the right to
erect and maintain its own poles as necessary for the operation of its system.
Such attachments and constructions shall comply with all qualifications and
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The franchisee shall have the right, authority and power to attach any
of its system's facilities to any poles, towers and other facilities owned by
the town in accordance with this chapter and after receiving written
authorization from the appropriate town official.
   C.   The franchisee shall keep complete plats and records accurately
indicating the sites of its facilities and systems situated within the public
ways of the town, and keep two (2) copies of the plat thereof on file with the
town. (1976 Code § 5.45.050)
3-6-6: OTHER CONDITIONS:
The following additional conditions are hereby imposed:
   A.   The construction, maintenance, use and removal of all structures, lines
and equipment of the franchisee shall comply with the codes of the town, and
laws of the state, and shall be done so as to cause minimum interference with
abutting private property or public use of any streets, alleys, avenues,
parkways, lanes, bridges, or other public ways and places.
   B.   The franchisee shall, in the event of removal, repair or resiting of
any of its facilities at its own expense, restore any town property, streets or
ways, disturbed to its original contour and condition. If at any time during
the period of the franchise, the town shall alter or change any street, alley,
or public ways, the franchisee, upon reasonable notice by the town, shall at
its own expense, resite any of its facilities.
   C.   The franchisee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit or a permit for an oversized transport issued by the town,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings,
provided:
      1.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by the person, including, if required by the franchisee, making such payment in
advance; and
      2.   The franchisee is given not less than three (3) business days'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   D.   The franchisee, after obtaining a permit from the town, shall have the
authority to trim trees overhanging any streets in the franchise area so as to
prevent branches from coming in contact with the franchisee's wires and cables,
except that, at the option of the town, such trimming may be done by it or
under its supervision and direction at the franchisee's expense. (1976 Code §
5.45.060)
3-6-7: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
The franchisee shall not sell or transfer its plant or system nor transfer any
rights under this franchise to another without town approval. No sale or
transfer of the franchisee's assets used in the performance of this franchise
shall be effective until the vendee, assignee or lessee has filed in the office
of the county clerk and recorder an instrument duly executed reciting the fact
of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise and
agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof. Such council approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld and neither this section nor other sections of this
franchise shall preclude the mortgaging, hypothecating or assigning of rights
in the system, or the pledge of stock by the franchisee, for the purpose of
financing. (1976 Code § 5.45.070)
3-6-8: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
The franchisee shall conduct all of its operations and maintain its system in a
safe condition and manner and as a minimum shall comply with the following:
   A.   The franchisee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for
preventing failure and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public.
   B.   All structures, all line, equipment and connections, in, over, under
and upon all streets of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained in a
safe and suitable condition and in good order and repair. (1976 Code §
5.45.080)
3-6-9: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS; FORCE MAJEURE:
The franchisee shall comply with the following:
   A.   The franchisee shall operate and maintain its cable television system
in full compliance with the standards set forth by the federal communications
commission.
   B.   The franchisee shall have no obligation to construct or extend the
system, nor to provide, repair, replace, maintain or operate CATV service, for
any cause beyond its control, including, without limitations, acts of God,
fire, flood, earthquakes, hurricane, unavoidable casualty, extraordinary delays
in transportation, strikes, lockouts, picketing, boycotts, embargoes,
government orders or other requirements, acts of civil commotion, energy
shortages, acts or commissions of carriers, or activities or other emergency
conditions including weather conditions incompatible with good quality
workmanship.
   C.   The franchisee shall maintain a local business office or agent which
subscribers may telephone during regular business hours without incurring added
message or toll charges, so that complaints regarding cable television
operations may be promptly reported. (1976 Code § 5.45.090)
3-6-10: RATES:
The franchisee shall maintain on file with the town clerk a schedule setting
forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers for basic CATV service,
including connection and service charges. The rates will not be regulated by
the town. (1976 Code § 5.45.100)
3-6-11: FRANCHISE PAYMENTS:
   A.   The franchisee shall pay to the town on a quarterly basis, a franchise
fee of five percent (5%) of gross revenues received for cable television
services within the town for the preceding three (3) month period, and no other
fee, charge or consideration. The franchisee shall provide a quarterly report
showing quarterly gross revenues received during the preceding quarter of a
year. The quarterly payment shall be due within one month of the end of each
succeeding quarter of the year. The payment of the franchise fee as required by
this chapter shall be deemed to include any other business license, fee or tax,
and no other business license fee shall be required for doing business within
the town.
   B.   The above franchise fee shall be subject to change on a yearly basis,
with any change to go into effect on July 1 of each succeeding year during the
term of this franchise. (1976 Code § 5.45.110)
3-6-12: PROCEDURES AFFECTING SYSTEM:
The following shall apply for any intended procedures of the town affecting the
franchisee's system:
   A.   Any inquiry, proceeding, investigation, or other action to be taken or
proposed to be taken by the town in regard to the operations of the
franchisee's cable television system, shall be taken only after thirty (30)
days' written notice to the franchisee of such action or proposed action, and
the franchisee has been given an opportunity to respond in writing and at any
hearing which may be specified by the town.
   B.   The notice required by this section shall state clearly the action or
proposed action to be taken, the time provided for response and the person in
authority to whom such responses should be addressed, and such other procedures
as may be specified by the town. If a hearing is to be held, the notice shall
give the date and time of such hearing, whether public participation will be
allowed and the procedures by which such participation may be obtained. The
franchisee shall be a necessary party to any hearing conducted in regard to its
operations; provided, that if the franchisee refuses to attend, the hearing may
be conducted in its absence. (1976 Code § 5.45.120)
3-6-13: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, if the franchisee shall not have acquired an
extension renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have and it is hereby
granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property of the town, for
the purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property or otherwise. In
so removing the property, the franchisee shall refill, at its expense, any
excavation that it shall make and shall leave the streets in as good condition
and contour as that prevailing prior to the removal of its property. (1976 Code
§ 5.45.130)
3-6-14: INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN:
   A.   The franchisee shall at all times protect and hold the town harmless
from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every
kind and description, including investigation costs, court costs, and
reasonable attorney fees, which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any
person arising out of the use, ownership, construction, repair, replacement,
maintenance and operation of the cable television's system and by reason of any
license, copyright, property right or patent of any article or system used in
the construction or use of the system, provided the town gives the franchisee
prompt notice of any such claims, actions, and suits, without limitation, in
writing. The franchisee shall maintain in full force and effect during the life
of any franchise, public liability and property damage insurance for an amount
of at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) single limit liability
from the time of commencement of construction of the CATV system.
   B.   All such insurance may contain reasonable deductible provisions not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any type of coverage. The town may
require that any and all investigation of claims made by any person against the
town arising out of any use or misuse of privileges granted to the franchisee
hereunder shall be made by, or at the expense of the franchisee or its insurer.
The franchisee may bring its obligations to carry any insurance required hereby
within the coverage of any so called blanket policy or policies of insurance on
or hereafter carried, by appropriate amendment, endorsement, or otherwise;
provided, however, the interests of the town shall be as fully protected
thereby as if the franchisee had obtained individual policies of insurance.
(1976 Code § 5.45.140)
3-6-15: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
The following provisions apply to this grant:
   A.   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to be
filed with the town shall be filed with the town clerk.
   B.   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the franchisee shall, upon
request of the town, make available its facilities to the town for emergency
use during the emergency or disaster period. (1976 Code § 5.45.150)
3-6-16: LINE SEVERING:
If at any time the franchisee's cable and/or other equipment is disturbed,
damaged or severed, after it has been installed according to standard
specifications, the cost of repair shall be paid by the party responsible for
the damage. The franchisee may charge the responsible party for the time and
materials expended for repair of the damage. The town will cooperate to assist
in enforcing any charge or penalty arising from cable severing or other damage
to the franchisee's property. (1976 Code § 5.45.160)
3-6-17: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
Application for a franchise to engage in the business of operating a cable
television system shall be made by filing an application with the town clerk.
Such application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant, and should the applicant be a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of said
corporation.
   B.   An outline of the general construction and operating plans of the
applicant.
   C.   A proposed schedule for the construction of the system and the
commencement of the service and a full and complete description, including maps
and plans, of the system.
   D.   A statement of the policy of the applicant concerning the extension of
the system within the license area. (1976 Code § 5.45.180)
3-6-18: MAPS:
Grantee shall furnish the town, without charge, reproducible prints showing the
location of all poles within the town's corporate limits, joint poles,
underground cables, ducts, and other cable TV facilities. Said cable TV company
shall submit a new up to date map each year on or near the anniversary date of
this license, and may, at its option, submit amendments at more frequent
intervals to the end that its facilities can be more fully protected from
injury due to public improvements and the town more readily enforce its
controls over the use of its streets, alleys, and other public places. (1976
Code § 5.45.190)
3-6-19: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
Any person receiving a franchise under the terms of this chapter shall
accomplish significant construction within one year from grant of franchise,
and shall thereafter equitably and reasonably extend energized trunk cable
within the franchise area as provided in the construction schedule set forth in
the application for a franchise. Extensions of any system within the franchise
area shall be made by the franchise in accord with the policy set forth in the
application for a franchise. (1976 Code § 5.45.200)
3-6-20: EQUAL PROTECTION:
In the event the town enters into a franchise agreement of any kind with any
other person or entity other than the grantee, to enter into the town's public
ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system or providing
cable service to any part of the town, the material provisions thereof shall be
reasonably comparable to those contained herein, in order that one operator not
be granted an unfair competitive advantage over another, and to provide all
parties equal protection under the law. (1976 Code § 5.45.210)
3-6-21: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
The following shall constitute violations and shall be punishable as indicated:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain
within any public street, alley or way within the town or within any public
property of the town, or within any privately owned area within the franchise
area which has not yet become a public street but is designated or delineated
as a proposed public street on any tentative subdivision map approved by the
town, any equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals or
radio signals through a CATV system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of
such street or property or area has first been obtained, and unless such
franchise is in full force and effect.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized
connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or
otherwise, with any part of the franchised CATV system within the franchise
area for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive any television signal, radio
signal, picture, sound, or other transmission without payment to franchisee.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
wilfully to tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used
for distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other
transmission. (1976 Code § 5.45.170)
   D.   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, including this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and for
each day of violation or failure to comply may be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 5.45.170; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Application Of Chapter
4-1-3: Responsibility For Maintenance
4-1-4: Public Nuisance Defined
4-1-5: Enforcement
4-1-6: Penalty
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The intent of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive mechanism for
the identification and abatement of public nuisances within the town.
   B.   The remedies provided for in this chapter are supplemental and
complementary to all of the provisions of this code, and state and federal law,
and nothing herein shall be read, interpreted or construed in any manner to
limit any existing right or power of the town to abate any and all public
nuisances. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015)
4-1-2: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property throughout the town
wherein any of the conditions hereinafter specified are found to exist;
provided, however, that any condition which would constitute a violation of
this chapter but which is duly authorized under any other town, state or
federal law, shall not constitute a violation. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015)
4-1-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE:
Every owner, occupant, lessee or holder of any possessory interest in real
property within the town is required to maintain such property so as not to
violate the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015)
4-1-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
   A.   "Public nuisance" means:
      1.   A condition which endangers safety or health, is offensive to the
senses, or obstructs the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood or by any considerable number of persons, including, but not
limited to, the following:
The enumeration, below, shall not be deemed exclusive, but merely illustrative,
it being the intent and purpose of this subsection to include as nuisances, all
actions or things of the character described in this subsection A1.
         a.   Accumulating, maintaining or storing in public view on any lot or
other parcel of land, any abandoned, discarded, or unused furniture,
appliances, stoves, sinks, toilets, cabinets, household fixtures or equipment,
or junk.
         b.   Accumulating, maintaining or storing in public view on any lot or
other parcel of land, any junk vehicle, component part of a motor vehicle, or
any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicles, trailers, campers,
boats or other watercraft. Any person possessing one or more junk vehicles,
regardless of ownership, shall shield the vehicles from public view or remove
the vehicles to a licensed motor vehicle wrecking facility or to a licensed
motor vehicle graveyard, as defined by Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-
501.
         c.   Dumping, piling, or stacking of bricks, concrete blocks, waste
wood and similar material on any lot or other parcel of land, unless said
material is stacked in neat piles and all waste materials from the cleaning of
such items, such as mortar, wood splinters, broken and unusable bricks, are
removed.
         d.   Accumulating, maintaining or storing of a significant amount of
cardboard boxes, broken packing boxes, paper, or other similar items on any lot
or other parcel of land.
         e.   Piling, dumping or depositing of any dirt, demolition wastes
including wood, bricks, concrete, used road blacktop and other similar
materials on any lot or other parcel of land, unless such material is to be
utilized for fill material to fill a land depression; and provided that, if
such material is used as fill material, all such material is completely covered
with clean fill material once every ten (10) days and the fill area is
adequately fenced to restrict access to the area; and further provided, that
the failure to comply with the periodic cover and access control requirements
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The storage by a governmental
entity of used road blacktop, cold mix, gravel and other similar materials for
road maintenance and repair is expressly permitted.
         f.   Maintaining or accumulating on any lot or other parcel of land,
garbage, refuse, decaying vegetation, animal bedding, waste or feces, cesspool,
water holes, unsealed water tanks, stagnant water, or any other condition which
is or may reasonably become infested or inhabited by rodents, reptiles, vermin
or wild animals or may furnish a breeding place for mosquitoes or flies.
         g.   Maintaining, or causing or permitting the same, on any lot or
other parcel of land, any building or premises which is determined to be
dangerous or dilapidated. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be a dangerous
or dilapidated building, if such conditions or defects exist to the extent that
the life, health, property, value of property or safety of the occupants or the
public are jeopardized:
            (1)   Broken or missing window or windows which have remained in
such condition for a period exceeding thirty (30) days;
            (2)   Broken or missing exterior door or doors which have remained
in such condition for a period exceeding thirty (30) days;
            (3)   Holes in the roof or exterior walls, other than normal
construction, which have remained in such condition for a period exceeding
thirty (30) days;
            (4)   Fire or other casualty damage in public view which remains
unrepaired for a period exceeding six (6) months.
A building which is undergoing construction or remodeling for which a valid
building permit has been issued by the town shall not be deemed in violation of
this subsection so long as work thereon is prosecuted with reasonable diligence
and so long as the building permit has not expired.
      2.   Any premises where persons gather for the purpose of engaging in
unlawful conduct.
      3.   A condition which renders dangerous for passage any public highway
or right of way or waters used by the public.
   B.   A person commits the offense of maintaining a public nuisance if such
person knowingly creates, conducts or maintains a public nuisance. The owner of
a parcel of property and the occupant, lessee or holder of the parcel of
property are jointly and severally liable for any violation of this section.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the person named as owner of the
property on the current assessment list of the state department of revenue is
the owner of the property for purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Any act which affects an entire community or neighborhood or any
considerable number of persons (as specified in subsection A1 of this section)
is no less a nuisance because the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted
upon individuals is unequal. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015)
4-1-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Local law enforcement shall have the primary responsibility for the abatement
of a public nuisance under this chapter. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015)
4-1-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified by the provisions of this chapter, any
person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
creating and maintaining a public nuisance, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punishable by a fine for the first offense of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or both. The second
offense shall be punishable by a fine of not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment
for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or both. A third or subsequent offense
shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
   B.   Each day of failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   If a person found guilty of a Public Nuisance under this part fails to
pay any penalty under Section A above, the penalty and cost of abatement shall
be assessed against the person’s taxes. (Ord. 2015-08, 8-12-2015, amd. Ord.
2020- 01, 7-13-2020)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Open Burning Restricted
4-2-1: OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Burning Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to start an
open outdoor fire within the town limits; provided, that this section shall not
apply to small fires used for outdoor cooking or other recreational purposes as
long as no public nuisance is created.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2014-04, 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Weeds Prohibited
4-3-3: Notice To Destroy Weeds
4-3-4: Action Upon Noncompliance With Order
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Noxious weeds" or "weeds" means:
   A.   Any exotic plant species established or that may be introduced in the
state that may render land unfit for agriculture, forestry, livestock,
wildlife, or other beneficial uses or that may harm native plant communities
and that is designated:
      1.   As a statewide noxious weed by rule of the state department of
agriculture; or
      2.   As a district noxious weed by a district weed board, following
public notice of intent and a public hearing.
   B.   A weed designated by rule of the state department of agriculture as a
statewide noxious weed must be considered noxious in every district of the
state. (1976 Code § 7.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-2: WEEDS PROHIBITED:
No owner of any lot, place or area within the town, or agent of such owner,
shall permit noxious weeds on such lot, place or area and one-half (1/2) of any
road or street lying next to such property abutting thereon. The existence of
such noxious weeds shall constitute a public nuisance. (1976 Code § 7.08.020)
4-3-3: NOTICE TO DESTROY WEEDS:
   A.   Notify Property Owner: Whenever noxious weeds are found to exist upon
any premises within the town, the town shall notify the owner of the property
or, if no such person can be found, the person in control of the premises.
   B.   Contents Of Notice; Order To Remove: The notice shall state that the
existence of such noxious weeds constitutes a public nuisance, and shall order
the owners, or persons in charge, to exterminate or remove all such weeds on
any lot, place or area within the town limits, and upon one-half (1/2) of any
adjacent street or road. The notice shall further inform such property owners,
or their agents, that upon their failure to remove or exterminate such weeds
within a specified time, the town may proceed to have such weeds removed or
exterminated and assess the cost thereof to the property involved. (1976 Code §
7.08.030)
   C.   Publication Of Notice: Personal notice of the order shall be served. In
case personal service cannot be obtained, then the notice shall be published in
a prominently displayed advertisement, once a week for two (2) weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town. The last date of publication
shall be not less than seven (7) days prior to the date upon which the town
shall commence the removal of weeds from such property. (1976 Code § 7.08.030;
amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-4: ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ORDER:
Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, or agent thereof, to
exterminate or remove noxious weeds growing, lying or located upon the property
of the owner or upon one-half (1/2) of any road or street lying next to the
lands before the date specified in the notice, the responsible town official
may exterminate or remove such noxious weeds. Such official shall report to the
town clerk the cost of such extermination. The clerk shall make an additional
charge of ten percent (10%) to cover administrative costs. The total costs
shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land from which or adjourning
which the noxious weeds have been exterminated or removed. The clerk shall
cause the aforesaid costs to become a lien against the property involved. (1976
Code § 7.08.040; amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon complaint and
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 7.08.050; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Disposal Of Wastes
4-4-3: Burning Wastes
4-4-4: Garbage Containers And Stands
4-4-5: Inflammable Rubbish; Acid And Explosives
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-7: Disposal Or Dumping Of Refuse Other Than Branches And Grass Clippings
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ASHES: A. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials in homes, stores, institutions and small industrial establishments,
for the purpose of heating, cooking and disposing of waste combustible
materials. Cinders produced in steam generating plants are not included within
the meaning of this term.
   B.   The residue from household refuse incinerators and from rubbish burners
is normally classed as ashes, as are also remains from burning leaves and yard
rubbish in open fires.
GARBAGE: Intended to mean all refuse, animal and vegetable matter, ashes, store
sweepings, paper and rubbish and other indestructible waste matter, but it
shall not be construed to mean or include manure, basement or lawn excavations,
trees, house wreckage or other like debris.
INFLAMMABLE RUBBISH OR COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH: Comprises miscellaneous flammable
materials. Generally it is the organic component of rubbish, such as paper,
rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rubber, leather,
tree branches, yard trimmings and similar material.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH: Comprises miscellaneous refuse materials that are
nonflammable at ordinary temperatures. For the most part, it is the inorganic
component of rubbish, such as tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass,
crockery, dust, metal furniture, etc.
RUBBISH: All refuse not included in garbage and ashes. It consists of a great
variety of combustible and noncombustible waste materials from households,
stores and institutions. This waste is defined more specifically as
"combustible rubbish" and "noncombustible rubbish", but whenever the word
"rubbish" is used alone, it means a mixture of both. "Trash" is synonymous with
"rubbish". (1976 Code § 7.12.010)
4-4-2: DISPOSAL OF WASTES:
   A.   The disposal of garbage, rubbish and other wastes shall be as the town
council orders by ordinance and regulation.
   B.   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of Garbage Pickup Rates,
renewable each year by the regularly scheduled Town Meeting in May. The Garbage
Pickup Rates shall be posted at Town Hall each year, and a copy of which shall
be provided to a resident upon inquiry.
   C.   Any change in future Garbage Pickup Rates shall only be made in dollar
increments. (1976 Code § 7.12.020, amd. Ord. 2020-02, 7-13-2020)
4-4-3: BURNING WASTES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to ignite or to burn
any garbage, rubbish, animal or vegetable matter upon any premises, street or
alley in the town. (1976 Code § 7.12.030; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-4: GARBAGE CONTAINERS AND STANDS:
   A.   Requirements; Placement:
      1.   The owner, operator and occupant of every human habitation who
disposes of garbage by the use of containers shall provide, or cause to be
provided, portable metallic or plastic vessels or containers for the deposit
therein of garbage. Such containers shall have handles, shall not exceed forty
(40) gallons' capacity, be provided with a suitable flytight cover, and be so
constructed and at all times maintained so as to prevent leakage. (1976 Code §
7.12.040)
      2.   Such containers shall be placed and kept as required and directed by
the town. In the case of apartments or other multiple-family dwellings, as many
containers shall be provided as a responsible town official shall specify and
require. (1976 Code § 7.12.040; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Condition Of Receptacles: Receptacles that have deteriorated to the
extent of having jagged or sharp edges, capable of causing injury to the
collectors or others whose duty is to handle the containers, or to the extent
that the covers will not fit tightly, or to the extent of allowing the garbage
to be scattered will be condemned by the town, acting through a responsible
town official, and replacement will be required upon notification. (1976 Code §
7.12.050; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Garbage Stands: All garbage containers as described in this section
shall be placed or stationed on an impervious, well drained base constructed of
either cement, metal or wood at a height of not less than six inches (6") nor
more than one foot (1') from the level of the alley or street. The garbage
containers shall be located on the owner's property adjoining an alley or
street. (1976 Code § 7.12.060)
   D.   Ash Containers: Ashes and other heavy noncombustible refuse, of the
size to fit in a receptacle, shall be placed in a separate receptacle of volume
not to exceed two (2) cubic feet and of construction sufficiently strong to
hold such refuse. (1976 Code § 7.12.070)
4-4-5: INFLAMMABLE RUBBISH; ACID AND EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall place or cause to be placed in or near the receptacle provided
for the removal of ashes any highly inflammable rubbish, acids or explosives of
any kind whatsoever. (1976 Code § 7.12.080)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon complaint and
conviction thereof, be subject to fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 7.12.100; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-7: DISPOSAL OR DUMPING OF REFUSE OTHER THAN BRANCHES AND GRASS CLIPPINGS:
   A.   Intent to Adopt Policy: It is the intent of the Town of Terry to
implement a policy to protect the Town's dumping area for branches and grass
clippings.
   B.   Policy: Effective as of the 8th day of August, 2020, it shall be in
violation of this Section to dump anything other than branches and/or grass
clippings.
   C.   Violation of Policy: Upon the first offense, any person found to have
violated this Section shall be subjected to retrieval of the items, and pay for
any costs incurred in that retrieval. Upon the second or subsequent offense,
the Town shall impose of fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00), retrieval the
items, and pay for any costs incurred in the retrieval. If a person is found
guilty of a violation under this part, fails to pay any penalty under section A
above, the penalty and the cost of abatement shall be assessed against the
person's taxes. (Ord. 2020-02, 7- 13-2020)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Law Enforcement Contracted With County
5-1-1: LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTED WITH COUNTY:
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, the town has contracted with the
Prairie County sheriff's department to enforce state statutes and county and
town ordinances, including, but not limited to, traffic enforcement and
criminal and civil enforcement. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Composition
5-2-2: Officers Of Department
5-2-3: Fire Chief, Powers And Duties
5-2-4: Assistant Chief
5-2-5: Command At Fires
5-2-6: Fire Limits
5-2-7: Ordering Business Near Fire Closed
5-2-8: Preventive Inspections
5-2-9: Hazardous Obstructions; Orders To Remove Or Remedy
5-2-10: Obstructing Personnel Or Equipment
5-2-11: Penalty
5-2-1: COMPOSITION:
The fire department of the town shall consist of a chief of the fire
department, assistant chief of the fire department, and such firefighters as
may be authorized by the bylaws of the volunteer fire department. (1976 Code §
2.24.010)
5-2-2: OFFICERS OF DEPARTMENT:
The volunteer fire department of the town shall elect the officers and
directors of the fire department, and shall follow all applicable laws of the
state regarding the operation of a volunteer fire department. (1976 Code §
2.24.020)
5-2-3: FIRE CHIEF, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of the fire department shall have sole command and control over all
persons connected with the fire department of the town, and shall possess full
power and authority over its organization, government, and discipline, and to
that end may, from time to time, establish such disciplinary rules and
regulations as he may deem advisable, subject to the approval of the town
council; he shall have charge of and be responsible for the engines and other
apparatus, the property of the town furnished the fire department and see that
they are at all times ready for use in the extinguishing of fires. (1976 Code §
2.24.030; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2-4: ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief of the fire department, the assistant chief of the
department shall exercise the functions and powers set forth in section
5-2-3 of this chapter. (1976 Code § 2.24.040)
5-2-5: COMMAND AT FIRES:
   A.   Fire Chief: The chief of the fire department, or the officer having
charge in his place, shall have sole and absolute control and command over all
other members of the fire department and all other persons present at fires,
and the movement of all persons or property within the streets in any area
threatened by fire. (1976 Code § 2.24.050)
   B.   First Member Or Officer On Scene: The firefighter or officer of the
fire department who first arrives at a fire shall be the officer in command
until the chief or assistant chief of the fire department arrives. (1976 Code §
2.24.060)
5-2-6: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits shall be and are hereby declared to be within the limits of the
town, according to the plat thereof on file in the Prairie County Courthouse.
(1976 Code § 2.24.140)
5-2-7: ORDERING BUSINESS NEAR FIRE CLOSED:
   A.   The chief of the fire department shall have power, during any fire, and
while the fire department is engaged in putting out any fire or caring for
property at any fire, to order any place of business in the vicinity of such
fire closed for such length of time as he determines necessary for the safety
and preservation of life and property.
   B.   Any person who violates an order made pursuant to this section shall be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 2.24.080)
5-2-8: PREVENTIVE INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to inspect or cause to
be inspected, as often as may be necessary, all buildings, premises and
thoroughfares in the town, except the interior of private dwellings, for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected, any conditions liable to
cause fire, or any violations of the provisions of this code or other ordinance
of the town affecting fire hazards. (1976 Code § 2.24.090)
5-2-9: HAZARDOUS OBSTRUCTIONS; ORDERS TO REMOVE OR REMEDY:
   A.   Removal Of Obstructions; Orders: Whenever the chief of the fire
department, or any officer of the town or firefighter shall find obstructions
to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors, windows, etc., liable to
interfere with the operations of the fire department, or egress of the
occupants in case of fire, he shall order the same to be removed or remedied.
(1976 Code § 2.24.100)
   B.   Compliance Required: Orders issued under authority of subsection A of
this section shall be complied with promptly by the owner, his agent, or
occupant of the building or premises involved. Any person failing to so comply
shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 2.24.110)
5-2-10: OBSTRUCTING PERSONNEL OR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Fire Personnel: It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way
interfere with or hinder any firefighter while in the discharge or apparent
discharge of his duty of preventing fire. (1976 Code § 2.24.120)
   B.   Fire Equipment: No person having in his charge or under his control any
automobile, motorcycle, motor truck, or motor vehicle of any kind shall drive
or in any way cause or allow the same to pass over and upon any hose belonging
to the town while such hose for any purpose whatever may be placed upon any of
the streets, alleys, or in any place whatever in the corporate limits of the
town, unless at a point where such hose may, at the time, be securely bridged.
(1976 Code § 2.24.130; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 2.24.150)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Storage Of Explosives Or Flammable Liquids
5-3A-2: Fireworks
5-3A-3: Swimming Pool, Illegally Entering
5-3A-4: Penalty
5-3A-5: Camping
5-3A-1: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES OR FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Explosives: It is unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept,
any giant powder, nitroglycerin, dynamite, or other highly explosive compound
within the Town or within three (3) miles of the corporate limits of the Town.
(1976 Code § 9.08.030)
   B.   Flammable Liquids:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to store flammable liquids in outside
aboveground tanks within the corporate limits of the Town.
      2.   No person within the Town shall store flammable or combustible
liquids or liquefied petroleum gas in new bulk plants. (1976 Code § 9.08.040;
amd. 2016 Code)
5-3A-2: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Discharge Restricted: The discharge, firing or use of firecrackers,
rockets, torpedoes, roman candles, or other fireworks or substances designed or
intended for pyrotechnic display or demonstration, within the Town, is
prohibited before July 3 and after July 5 and before and after December 31.
(1976 Code § 9.08.050; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Selling Restricted: It is unlawful for any person to offer for sale,
expose for sale or sell at retail or wholesale, within the corporate limits of
the Town, any fireworks of any nature whatsoever, before June 24 and after July
5 and before December 29 and after December 31. (1976 Code § 9.08.060; amd.
2016 Code)
5-3A-3: SWIMMING POOLS, ILLEGALLY ENTERING:
It is unlawful for any person to climb into or break into, or enter, the
swimming pool of the Town during the hours when not open to public use; and any
person convicted of breaking into, climbing into, or illegally entering said
swimming pool area during such hours when not open shall be subject to fine as
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and shall pay for all damages to the premises. (1976 Code §
9.20.010; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3A-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 9.08.070)
5-3A-5: CAMPING:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, to camp means:
      1.   To erect a tent or shelter of natural or synthetic material, prepare
a sleeping bag or other bedding material for use, or park a motor vehicle,
motor home, or trailer for the apparent purpose of overnight occupancy;
      2.   To sleep at any time between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. outdoors, with or without bedding, sleeping
bag, blanket, mattress, tent, hammock, or other similar protection;
      3.   To sleep at any time between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in, on, or under any structure or object, any
motor vehicle, motor home, or trailer, with or without bedding, sleeping bag,
blanket, mattress, tent, hammock, or other similar protection; or
      4.   To establish or maintain outdoors or in, on, or under any structure
or thing not intended for human occupancy, at any time between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., a temporary or
permanent place for sleeping, by setting up any bedding, sleeping bag, blanket,
mattress, tent, hammock, or other sleeping equipment or device or setting up
any cooking equipment with the intent to remain in that location overnight.
   B.   Camping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in any
public park, or on any publicly or privately owned property within the Town
limits with the exception of designated camping areas, whether State, County,
Town, or privately owned, and with appropriate authorization; or on private
property with the authorization of the property owner.
   C.   Violation A Misdemeanor; Penalty: Any person violating any provisions
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment for a term not to exceed
six (6) months, or both. (Ord. 2017-01, 4-20-2017)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Disturbing The Peace
5-3B-2: Vagrancy
5-3B-3: Open Containers
5-3B-4: Weapons
5-3B-5: Penalty
5-3B-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No person within the town, or within three (3) miles of the town limits, shall
wilfully and maliciously disturb the peace and quiet of any street,
neighborhood, family, or person by loud, tumultuous noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by using offensively loud radio or television sets, or by
threatening, quarreling, scolding, hallooing, hollering, uttering obscene,
profane, vulgar, or indecent language in the presence of any person or persons,
challenging to fight, or fighting, or by cursing, swearing, or by committing
any obscene, vulgar, indecent, or lewd act in any public place, or in view of
any person or persons. (1976 Code § 9.16.010)
5-3B-2: VAGRANCY:
The following persons shall be deemed guilty of committing the crime of
vagrancy:
   A.   Every person begging food, money, drinks, lodging or other things, or
soliciting charity for himself or dependents.
   B.   Every person who lodges in or about any marketplace, shed, railroad
car, outhouse, lavatory, rest room, warehouse, barn, service station, school,
bar, cocktail lounge, or any other place of business or structure within the
town, without the permission of the owner or party entitled to possession
thereof. (1976 Code § 9.16.020)
5-3B-3: OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, possess, or
drink alcoholic beverages, beer or ale, in open containers on any public street
or alley in the town. Any person convicted of carrying, possessing or drinking
alcoholic beverages, beer or ale in open containers, on any public street or
alley in the town shall be subject to fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Murn Park: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, possess, or
drink alcoholic beverages, beer or ale, in open containers, within the limits
of Murn Park, located on blocks five (5) and twelve (12) of the original
townsite of Terry, Montana, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Any person convicted of carrying, possessing, or
drinking, alcoholic beverages, beer or ale, in open containers, within the
limits of Murn Park in the town between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. shall be subject to fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 9.16.030; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3B-4: WEAPONS:
   A.   Shooting Of Firearms:
      1.   The shooting of all firearms, or weapons, including rifles, pistols
and shotguns in the town, or at the town dump, town sewage lagoon or other
property under the control of the town, outside of the town limits is hereby
prohibited. (1976 Code § 9.24.010)
      2.   Any person violating this subsection A, whether in the town, or at
property under the control of the town, but outside the corporate limits
thereof, shall be punished by a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, together with the costs of prosecution.
   B.   Shooting Air Rifle Or BB Gun: Every person who wilfully shoots or fires
off any air rifle or BB gun within the limits of the town is guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00)
and such air rifle or BB gun shall be seized and impounded by a law enforcement
officer until satisfied that the fine; if any, will be paid or that the
violations of this subsection will cease. Thereafter said air rifle or BB gun
shall be returned to the owner. (1976 Code § 9.24.010; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3B-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 9.16.050)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew
5-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) to remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public
places in the corporate limits of the town after the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. of any day from September 1 to the following May 1 of any year, and
from May 1 to August 31 inclusive of each year, after the hour of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., except Friday and Saturday nights until one o'clock (1:
00) A.M., unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
person having the legal custody of such minor person; or unless such minor
person is performing an errand or duty directed by such parent, guardian or
other person having the legal custody of such minor; or unless the minor's
employment makes it necessary for him, or her, to be upon such streets, alleys,
or other places during the nighttime after the specified hours.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parents: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having the legal custody of any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to allow or permit such minor, while in such legal custody, to be in
or upon any of the streets, alleys or public places in the town within the
times prohibited in subsection A of this section, unless there exists a
necessity thereof. (1976 Code § 9.16.040)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 9.16.050)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: License Required; Exceptions
5-5-3: Registration And Vaccination Required
5-5-4: Tag And Collar
5-5-5: Dog Kennel License
5-5-6: Cruelty To Animals
5-5-7: Nuisance Animals
5-5-8: Vicious Animals
5-5-9: Investigation
5-5-10: Interference With Law Enforcement Officer
5-5-11: Dogs Running At Large
5-5-12: Animals Exposed To Rabies
5-5-13: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposition Of Animals
5-5-14: Prevention Of Rabies
5-5-15: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicated:
AT LARGE: Shall be intended to mean off the premises of the owner, and not
under the control of the owner or a member of his immediate family or a person
authorized by the owner, either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
CONTROL: Shall be intended to mean controlled by a leash, of a length of no
greater than ten feet (10') held by a person physically capable of controlling
the dog on such leash, or within the limits of the premises controlled by the
owner or other persons consenting thereto, or inside a vehicle or other
enclosure controlled by the owner or other persons consenting thereto.
DOG: Shall be intended to mean both male and female; either or neither, from
date of birth thereafter.
KENNEL: Any premises or property of any kind or description where more than two
(2) female dogs are kept for breeding purposes, or where more than one litter
of pups or dogs are kept for purposes of sale.
OWNER: Shall be intended to mean any person or persons, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or other legal entity owning, keeping or harboring a
dog.
VACCINATE: The inoculation of a dog or other animal with an antirabies vaccine
by any licensed veterinarian. (1976 Code § 8.04.010; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: In the event a dog is brought within the town within
the license (calendar) year, the owner or person having possession or custody
of or harboring or giving shelter or refuge to such dog shall obtain a license
for such dog as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
person visiting the district for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, and
owning, having possession or custody of or harboring or giving shelter to a dog
currently licensed and bearing a license issued by another licensing authority.
It shall be unlawful to have possession or custody of or to harbor or give
shelter or refuge to any dog without a valid dog license. (1976 Code §
8.04.170)
5-5-3: REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Registration And Vaccination; Fee:
      1.   All dogs kept, harbored or maintained in the town shall be
vaccinated and registered as herein provided on or before March 1 of each year.
Registration tags shall be issued by the town clerk upon proof of vaccination
for rabies within a two (2) year period immediately upon payment of a
registration fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per year for every dog, except as
provided in subsection B of this section. Should said license fee not be paid
on or before March 1 annually, then said license fee shall be deemed delinquent
and in the event that the license fee hereby levied becomes delinquent, the
license agent shall cause to be levied and collected, in addition to the
license fee herein set forth, a ten dollar ($10.00) delinquent fee.
      2.   The owner shall state at the time of application for registration
and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his name, address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept by him.
      3.   Proof of vaccination shall consist of a certificate of vaccination
from a registered, licensed, and practicing veterinarian. (1976 Code §
8.04.110)
   B.   Lower Fee For Persons Over Sixty: The registration fee for a dog owned
by a person over the age of sixty (60) years, shall be the sum of five dollars
($5.00) per dog, and must be paid on or before March 1 of each year. In the
event the registration fee becomes delinquent according to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, the regular registration fee and delinquent fee
shall apply. (1976 Code § 8.04.110; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-4: TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   License Issuance:
      1.   Upon payment of the registration fee as provided in section
5-5-3 of this chapter, the license agent shall issue to the owner a
registration certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so registered. The
shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon the
year for which it was issued and a number corresponding with the number of the
certificate.
      2.   The town clerk shall be the license agent and may appoint additional
license agents as he or she may deem necessary to be expedient. (1976 Code §
8.04.040)
   B.   Collar; Tag Attached: Every owner shall provide his or her dog with a
collar to which the license tag must be affixed and the owner shall be
responsible to see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case the tag
is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the license agent upon
payment of a fee of one dollar ($1.00). The license tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another. (1976 Code § 8.04.040; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-5: DOG KENNEL LICENSE:
Any person maintaining a "kennel" as defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter shall pay a license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per year for maintaining such kennel. No license shall be issued until the
premises to be used for the kennel has been inspected and approved by the
Prairie County health officer. (1976 Code § 8.04.050; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and cruelly inflict pain upon or
injure any animal. (1976 Code § 8.04.060)
5-5-7: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any dog or other animal to
destroy property or other pets; to bite or chase after persons not trespassing
on the property of, or injuring or attempting to injure the person, family or
property of the owner; to chase vehicles in public streets or ways; or by
prolonged howling, yelping, barking or by any other means, cause annoyance or
disturbance to any person. (1976 Code § 8.04.070)
   B.   Any such nuisance animal may be taken up and impounded by any law
enforcement officer.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or maintain any such
nuisance animal and it shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer to
issue tickets and file complaints for all such violations occurring in their
presence.
   D.   Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may file a complaint with a
law enforcement officer to be investigated for potential charges for a
potential violation of this section where the offense is not committed in the
presence of any law enforcement officer.
   E.   Upon a third conviction under this section, the nuisance animal shall
be seized and taken up by any law enforcement officer and put to death
forthwith. (1976 Code § 8.04.070; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-8: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: The term "vicious animal" shall mean:
      1.   Any dog or other animal, while off the owner's property and in the
absence of intentional provocation, chases or approaches any person in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack or bites or causes bodily
injury to any person or animal; or
      2.   Any dog or other animal, while on the owner's property and in the
absence of intentional provocation, bites or causes bodily injury to any person
or animal lawfully on the property.
   B.   Quarantine For Dogs Or Other Animals Biting Persons Or Animals:
      1.   Every dog or other animal which bites a person or animal shall be
promptly reported to law enforcement and the Prairie County public health
department.
      2.   Any dog or other animal which has bitten any person or animal shall
be kept under quarantine under the direction and authority of the Prairie
County health officer at an animal shelter, veterinary facility, or other
adequate facility. Such quarantine shall be for a period of ten (10) days.
      3.   If the owner of the dog or other animal has not appeared to claim
the dog or other animal within five (5) days of the beginning of such
quarantine, the dog or other animal may be destroyed pursuant to subsection 5-
5-13C1 of this chapter and examined for rabies.
      4.   If, during the quarantine period, the dog or other animal is
adjudged as having rabies, the dog or other animal shall be destroyed and
appropriate health authorities notified.
      5.   If, after completion of the quarantine period, the dog or other
animal is adjudged free of rabies, the dog or other animal shall be released to
its owner upon written permission of the Prairie County health officer unless
otherwise ordered held pursuant to subsection 5-5-13B of this chapter.
      6.   Quarantine and associated costs, including costs of destruction,
shall be at the owner's expense.
      7.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any dog or other animal
for quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made by any law
enforcement officer or the Prairie County health officer.
   C.   Disposition Of Dogs Or Other Animals Biting Or Causing Bodily Injury To
Persons Or Animals: Any dog or other animal, under the circumstances set forth
in this section, which bites or causes bodily injury to any person or animal on
three (3) separate occasions, or bites or causes serious bodily injury to any
person or animal on one occasion, may be put to death by any law enforcement
officer in a humane manner or removed from the town pursuant to subsection 5-5-
13C2 of this chapter. Provided, however, that if any vicious dog or other
animal is found running at large and cannot be safely taken up and impounded,
such vicious dog or other animal may be slain by any law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2015-06, 6-18-2015)
5-5-9: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, any law
enforcement officer is empowered to demand from the occupants of any premises,
upon or in which a dog or other animal is kept or harbored, the exhibition of
such dog or other animal, and the license or tag for the animal. (1976 Code §
8.04.090; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Whenever complaint has been made that an animal is kept in a reportedly
cruel or inhumane manner, the law enforcement officer may examine such animal
and take possession of the same when, in his opinion, it requires humane
treatment. (1976 Code § 8.04.090)
5-5-10: INTERFERENCE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or detain any law enforcement
officer in the performance of any duty or power imposed on such officer by this
chapter, or to release, or attempt to release any animal in the custody of any
town official. (1976 Code § 8.04.100; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-11: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large at any time
within the corporate limits of the town, whether such dog be registered or
unregistered. (1976 Code § 8.04.120)
5-5-12: ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES:
   A.   Seizure; Quarantine: Every dog or other animal which has been bitten
by, or exposed to, any animal suspected to have been infected with rabies shall
be forthwith seized and taken up by any law enforcement officer and securely
and separately impounded. All such animals shall be quarantined in the pound or
at a licensed veterinarian hospital for a period of fourteen (14) days. It
shall be the duty of the person seizing such dog to notify the Prairie County
health officer of every such animal impounded.
   B.   Reclamation Of Animal Or Disposal: If, after observation under the
supervision of the Prairie County health officer for such period, any such
animal is adjudged free of rabies, the owner may reclaim the animal, upon
payment of the regular keeping fees and upon compliance with the licensing
diagnosed as being rabid, it shall be disposed of only under the orders and
directions of the Prairie County health officer in his absolute discretion.
(1976 Code § 8.04.130; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-13: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Impoundment; Registry: Any law enforcement officer shall have the
authority to apprehend any dog found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter and to impound such dog. The officer shall, upon
receiving any dog, make a complete registry, entering the breed, color, and sex
of such dog and the number of the registration tag if known.
   B.   Notice To Owner And Redemption: Not later than two (2) days after the
impounding of any dog, the owner shall be notified in writing, or if the owner
of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted for four (4) days at
three (3) or more conspicuous places in the town, describing the dog and the
place and time of taking. The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim such
dog upon proof of compliance with rabies vaccination provisions as herein
provided, and upon payment of all costs and charges incurred by the town for
impounding and maintenance of such dog, and upon purchasing a license for said
impounded dog if that dog has not been licensed prior to capture.
   C.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Infected Dogs; Removal From Town:
      1.   It shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer to keep all dogs
so impounded for a period of four (4) days. If at the expiration of four (4)
days from the date of notice to the owner of the posting of notice, such dog
shall not have been redeemed, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or sold.
Any unregistered dog required by law to be registered, or any dog which appears
to be suffering from rabies or affected with hydrophobia, mange, or other
infectious or dangerous disease shall not be released, but may be forthwith
destroyed in a humane manner. (1976 Code § 8.04.140; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Whenever an animal is to be put to death under this chapter, except
for infection with rabies, the owner or other person may apply to law
enforcement for permission to remove the animal permanently from the town. Upon
such person's filing with the court his written agreement to remove the animal
from the town and be responsible for its remaining out permanently, the police
judge may, in his discretion, make an order allowing the animal to be removed
from the town instead of being put to death. (1976 Code § 8.08.040; amd. 2016
Code)
   D.   Teasing Or Unauthorized Release of Animals: It shall be unlawful for
any person to tease, harass, or bother by any means, any dog which is upon the
premises of the owner thereof. It shall further be unlawful for any person to
release any dog from the premises of the owner, or to, in any manner, or by any
means, lure such dog from the premises of the owner of the property, vehicle,
or enclosure in which such dog is contained. (1976 Code § 8.04.140)
5-5-14: PREVENTION OF RABIES:
   A.   Animals Exposed To Rabies; Quarantine:
      1.   Every dog or other animal which has been bitten by, or exposed to,
any animal suspected to have been infected with rabies shall be forthwith
seized and taken up by the chief of police or any law enforcement officer and
securely and separately impounded in the town animal shelter. Such animal shall
be quarantined in the pound or at a licensed veterinarian hospital for a period
of fourteen (14) days. If after observation for such period, any such animal is
adjudged free of rabies, the owner may reclaim the animal upon the payment of
the regular keeping fees. In the event that any animal under quarantine or
other confinement is diagnosed as being rabid, it shall be disposed of only
under the orders and directions of a law enforcement officer in his absolute
discretion. (1976 Code § 8.12.010; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   No person shall delay or obstruct any town officer in the
enforcement of this section. (1976 Code § 8.12.010)
   B.   Vaccination:
      1.   Whenever the town council, acting through its proper officer, shall
deem it necessary to take extra measures to prevent the spread of the disease
known as "rabies", the council shall designate a licensed veterinarian to
vaccinate all dogs in the town with the proper vaccine. The cost of the
vaccination shall be paid by the owner of the dog at the time of vaccination.
Upon vaccination of such dog, the veterinarian shall issue to the owner his
certificate showing the inoculation thereof. He shall keep a duplicate of such
certificate and file the same in the office of the town clerk. A metallic tag
may be attached to a collar on the dog showing the vaccination and the date
thereof.
      2.   Whenever the town shall require the vaccination of dogs, no person
shall obstruct or prevent an officer of the town from carrying out the duties
required by subsection A of this section. (1976 Code § 8.12.020)
5-5-15: PENALTY:
Any owner or any other person found violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 8.04.150; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE A.  LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Definitions
5-5A-2: Running At Large
5-5A-3: Swine
5-5A-4: Keeping Livestock And Fowl
5-5A-5: Permit Required
5-5A-6: Causing Annoyance, Disturbance Or Offense
5-5A-7: Vicious, Ferocious Animals
5-5A-8: Pest And Weed Control
5-5A-9: Duties Of Law Enforcement Officer
5-5A-10: Freeing Animals For Purpose Of Impoundment
5-5A-11: Area Of Exemption
5-5A-12: Effect Of Article
5-5A-13: Penalties
5-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FOWL: Any domesticated chicken, duck, goose, turkey or pigeon.
LIVESTOCK: Any horse, mule, cattle, donkey, goat, llama or rabbit; dogs are
governed by this chapter. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any livestock or fowl
belonging to him, or under his control, to run or roam at large in any of the
streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, parks or public places, or to trespass
upon the premises of another person, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-3: SWINE:
No person shall keep swine in the town. Swine may not be brought within the
limits of the town except for marketing purposes. (1976 Code § 8.04.030)
5-5A-4: KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND FOWL:
   A.   Keeping In Certain Area: No person owning, possessing or having control
of any livestock or fowl shall permit or allow the keeping of the same within
the corporate limits of the town south of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Railroad, except under the conditions as provided in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Conditions For Keeping:
      1.   Marketing Or Exhibition: Any person owning or having control of any
livestock or fowl may bring the same into the corporate limits of the town for
the purpose of marketing said livestock or for commercial or exhibition
purpose, provided said livestock remains within the town fewer than seven (7)
days per year. Exhibition purposes include parades or shows.
      2.   Visitors: It shall be permissible for any person owning or having
control of any livestock or fowl to remove said animals from trucks or trailers
for the purpose of exercising, feeding or watering the animals while the
animals are en route from one location to another, provided the animals are not
allowed to run at large, the owner cleans up any manure, bedding or feed
products resulting from these operations, and said animals remain within the
corporate limits less than twenty four (24) hours during any month.
      3.   Open Space: It shall be permissible for any person owning or having
control of livestock or fowl to keep said animals within the corporate limits
of the town south of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad for a limited
time on property that provides adequate open space. The following conditions
shall determine whether a property has adequate open space:
         a.   Livestock and fowl shall be kept in low concentrations or on a
short term basis so that manure does not accumulate and the animals do not
generate odors offensive to neighboring properties. For the purposes of this
article, no livestock or fowl shall be allowed on an area less than one acre in
size, unless a special permit is granted under section
5-5A-5 of this article.
         b.   All accessory structures used for the purpose of housing, keeping
or sheltering livestock or fowl shall be set back a distance of fifty feet
(50') from any property line, unless a variance is granted by the town council.
         c.   All haystacks or feed storage bins shall be set back a distance
of fifty feet (50') from any property line and fifty feet (50') from any
dwelling or fire hazard. No haystack shall be carried over for more than two
(2) years.
         d.   The open space exception does not apply to swine, or vicious or
ferocious animals, or to any areas where more restrictive covenants or zoning
restrictions apply, or where other ordinances of the town apply.
         e.   No owner of livestock or fowl shall be permitted to house, keep
or shelter more than twenty (20) chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys and/or rabbits
combined on a property within the corporate limits of the town south of the
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit: Any owner or keeper of livestock who desires to keep livestock
within the corporate limits of the town south of the Burlington Northern Santa
Fe Railroad using the open space exemption of subsection 5-5A-4B3 of this
article must obtain a yearly (calendar year) permit from the town council.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application must be made in writing, with a
description of the property on which the animal is to be kept, a description of
fencing and other measures to contain the livestock or fowl and protect the
public, and the length of time the animal is to be kept there. The owner or
keeper of the livestock shall state and describe in the application any past
health or safety concerns of the animal or fowl.
   C.   Special Permits: At its discretion, the council may issue special
permits for the keeping of animals on parcels less than one acre in size.
Special permits would be available only for animals being kept for short
durations in a manner that assures adequate forage, cleanliness and odor
control, or for small animals such as rabbits that can be kept in cages that
are located in a manner that is not offensive to neighboring properties. (Ord.,
4-14-2009)
5-5A-6: CAUSING ANNOYANCE, DISTURBANCE OR OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person owning or in control of any
livestock or fowl to harbor or keep any livestock or fowl which causes
annoyance or disturbance to residents of the town by loud and frequent noises
such as baying, mooing, bleating, clucking, crowing, honking, or other noises.
It shall also be unlawful and a nuisance to harbor or keep livestock or fowl in
any manner which causes odors that are annoying, disturbing or offensive to the
residents of the town. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-7: VICIOUS, FEROCIOUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to keep, feed or harbor or
allow to stay about the premises occupied by him within the town, any vicious,
unruly or ferocious animal. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-8: PEST AND WEED CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or harboring livestock or fowl
within the town to fail to control flies, mice, rats or other pests, or to fail
to control noxious weeds on the property where the livestock or fowl are kept.
(Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-9: DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   Seizure Of Animal: It shall be the duty of the law enforcement officer
to take up or cause to be taken up any livestock or fowl found to be loose or
running at large or being kept unlawfully within the town. Upon impounding an
animal, the officer shall notify the owner or keeper, if known, within a
reasonable time that said animal has been impounded. The owner of any animal so
impounded may reclaim such animal upon proof of compliance with section
5-5A-4 of this article and upon payment of all costs and charges incurred by
the town for impounding and maintenance of such animal.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment; Redemption; Disposition: It shall be the duty of
the law enforcement officer to give notice of impoundment of any livestock by
causing personal service on the owner, or some responsible person at the
owner's residence or place of business. If such person cannot be found, notice
shall be given by detention of the animal and by posting the information of
impoundment in two (2) separate places in the town. The owner must redeem the
impounded livestock within five (5) days after the giving of notice or it shall
be subject to disposal or sale. Either the refusal or the failure of the owner
to claim any such impounded livestock and to pay all costs and charges incurred
by the town for impounding and maintenance of such animal shall be held to be
an abandonment of the livestock by the owner. The law enforcement officer may
offer the livestock for sale. In the event that any impounded livestock is not
redeemed by the owner or purchased, it may be disposed of by the law
enforcement officer in a humane manner. (Ord., 4-14-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5A-10: FREEING ANIMALS FOR PURPOSE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
No person shall disturb, take, or drive any animal or fowl out of any
enclosure, stable or other building, or from outside of the town limits into
the town, with the intent that such animal shall be impounded. (Ord., 4-14-
2009)
5-5A-11: AREA OF EXEMPTION:
That portion of the town located north of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Railroad is specifically exempt from section
5-5A-4 of this article because of the historical use of that portion of the
town for the keeping of livestock and because a portion of the town located
north of the railroad is still used only for agricultural purposes. (Ord., 4-
14-2009)
5-5A-12: EFFECT OF ARTICLE:
This article shall not affect livestock being kept south of the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Railroad in the town on the effective date hereof. No new or
replacement livestock may be kept or introduced after the effective date hereof
without a permit required under section
5-5A-5 of this article. Offspring of livestock kept south of the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Railroad in the town on the effective date hereof may be kept
without a permit required under section
5-5A-5 of this article only until they are old enough to be relocated to a site
conforming to this section or outside of the town limits. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
5-5A-13: PENALTIES:
Conviction or a plea of "guilty" for a first offense for a violation of this
article shall result in a thirty (30) day notice to clean up the property and
if the property is not cleaned up in thirty (30) days, the permit will be
revoked. If the town has to clean up the property, the cost of the cleanup will
be assessed on the property owner's taxes. If the property owner cleans up the
property, he or she may reapply for a permit to keep livestock. Failure to
apply for a permit shall result in a thirty (30) day notice to apply. If
application is not made by the end of the thirty (30) day period, conviction or
a plea of "guilty", for harboring livestock or fowl without a permit shall
result in a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Conviction or a plea of
"guilty" to a second offense to a violation of the provisions of this article
shall result in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Any owner or keeper of an
animal convicted of, or pleading "guilty" to, a third or subsequent offense of
the provisions of this article shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Payment of such fine does not relieve the owner
or keeper of the animal from his duty to comply with the provisions of this
article. (Ord., 4-14-2009)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title; Application Of Provisions
6-1-2: Obedience To Traffic Laws
6-1-3: Control Of Traffic
6-1-4: U-Turns
6-1-5: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Regulations
6-1-6: Operation Of Motorized Nonstandard Vehicles
6-1-7: Enforcement Of Traffic Regulations
6-1-8: Installation Of Traffic Control Signs, Signals And Devices
6-1-9: Penalty
6-1-1: TITLE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Designation: The provisions of this title and other traffic ordinances
of the town shall be designated as the Terry traffic code, and may be cited as
such.
   B.   Intent: The sections of the traffic code are intended to be uniform
with the Montana uniform act regulating traffic on highways. No provision of
this title which is construed by a court of law to be in conflict or at
variance with that act shall be enforceable, unless specific authority is given
by the act for such conflict or variance. (1976 Code § 10.04.010)
6-1-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS:
It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required in this traffic code. (1976 Code § 10.04.020)
6-1-3: CONTROL OF TRAFFIC:
Law enforcement officers are hereby authorized and empowered to direct,
control, restrict, and regulate, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrians, vehicles, and traffic of every kind
within the town, and may, when necessary to protect the safety or welfare of
the inhabitants of the town, temporarily divert or exclude all such traffic
from any public highway within the town. (1976 Code § 10.04.030; amd. 2016
Code)
6-1-4: U-TURNS:
   A.   U-Turns Restricted: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such
vehicle to proceed in the opposite direction or to make a semicircular turn for
the purpose of parking on the opposite side of the street upon which the
vehicle is traveling, other than at an intersection, except that no such turn
shall be made at any of the following intersections:
      1.   Any intersection in the business district;
      2.   Any signalized intersection;
      3.   Any intersection where stop signs are erected;
      4.   Any intersection of any alley with a street;
      5.   Any intersection on a curve;
      6.   Any intersection upon or within one hundred feet (100') of the crest
of the grade.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that, no vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such sign. (1976 Code §
10.04.040)
6-1-5: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
At intersections or other areas where traffic control signals are in place,
pedestrians shall be subject to such signals. At all other places, pedestrians
shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions
stated in this title. (1976 Code § 10.12.010)
6-1-6: OPERATION OF MOTORIZED NONSTANDARD VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition: A motorized nonstandard vehicle is a vehicle upon which a
person may be transported that:
      1.   Is propelled by its own power;
      2.   Has a wheelbase of less than forty inches (40") and a wheel diameter
of less than ten inches (10"); and
      3.   Does not display a certification in accordance with federal safety
guidelines, or have a seventeen (17) digit VIN assigned by a manufacturer in
accordance with federal guidelines.
   B.   Operation Authorized: The operation of a motorized nonstandard vehicle
on the ways of this state open to the public located within the town of Terry
is specifically authorized. (Ord., 6-8-2010)
6-1-7: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Procedure Upon Arrest:
      1.   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately
take a person arrested for a violation of any traffic law before a magistrate,
any law enforcement officer, upon making an arrest for violation of the traffic
ordinances of the town, shall take the name, address and operator's license
number of the alleged violator and license plate number of the motor vehicle
involved and shall issue to him in writing a notice to answer to the charge
against him at a place and at a time at least forty eight (48) hours after such
arrest to be specified in the notice. (1976 Code § 10.32.010; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator to answer as specified in the notice, shall release such person from
custody. (1976 Code § 10.32.010)
   B.   Failure To Obey Notice A Misdemeanor:
      1.   Any person who violates his written promise to appear, given to an
officer upon an arrest for any alleged traffic violation, is guilty of a
misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge of which he was
originally arrested.
      2.   Upon such failure to appear, a complaint may be entered against such
person and a warrant of arrest issued. (1976 Code § 10.32.020)
   C.   Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this traffic code or
other ordinance of the town, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
notice in writing for the driver to answer to the charge against him within a
specified time at least forty eight (48) hours later, during the hours and at a
place specified in the notice.
      2.   The officer shall send one copy of such notice to the town court.
(1976 Code § 10.32.030; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Failure To Comply With Notice:
      1.   If a user of a motor vehicle charged with the violation of any
restriction on stopping, standing, or parking under this traffic code does not
appear in response to a notice affixed to such motor vehicle within the time
specified in the notice, the proper law enforcement officer shall send to the
owner of the motor vehicle to which the notice was affixed a letter informing
him of the violation and requiring him or the aforesaid user of the vehicle to
appear and answer the charge specified in the notice. The letter shall declare
that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a
complaint will be filed and warrant of arrest issued. (1976 Code § 10.32.040;
amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The failure of the owner or the said user of the vehicle to appear
and answer within five (5) days of receipt of the letter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, regardless of the disposition of the original charges. (1976 Code
§ 10.32.040)
   E.   Authority To Impound Vehicles:
      1.   Law enforcement officers are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street, highway or public parking lot to the nearest garage or other
place of safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the town under the
circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
         a.   When any vehicle is left unattended where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic. (1976 Code § 10.32.050; amd. 2016 Code)
         b.   When a vehicle upon a street or highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle
are, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be
unable to provide for its custody or removal.
         c.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or highway and
is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
         d.   When any vehicle is parked illegally in a parking meter zone for
an interval of more than six (6) hours.
      2.   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or other
locality as authorized in this section and the officer knows or is able to
ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle, the name and address of
the owner thereof, the officer shall, within a reasonable time, make every
reasonable effort to ascertain the identity of and to locate the owner of the
vehicle and to give, or cause to be given, notice in writing to the owner of
the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which
said vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a
public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such
garage.
      3.   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or other
locality under authority of this section and does not know and is not able to
ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the
notice to the owner as hereinbefore required, and in the event the vehicle is
not returned to the owner within a period of three (3) days, then and in that
event the officer shall immediately send, or cause to be sent, written report
of such removal by mail to the state department of justice whose duty it is to
register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of such notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice
shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time, and place
from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored.
      4.   Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any vehicle
removed and impounded as provided herein shall be permitted to remove the same
from the custody of the town, he shall furnish evidence of his identity and
ownership of the vehicle, or right of possession thereto, shall sign a receipt
for the vehicle, and shall pay any towing charges incurred by the town in
towing said vehicle, and shall pay such charges for the storage of the vehicle
as shall have been incurred by the town.
      5.   The payment of such fees and charges, as provided herein, shall not
operate to relieve the owner or operator of such vehicle from liability from
any fine or penalty for the violation of any law or ordinance on account of
which such vehicle was removed and impounded.
      6.   Any vehicle left or parked on any street for five (5) consecutive
days or longer shall be removed and sold in accordance with Montana Code
Annotated sections 61-8-356, 61-12-401, and 61-12-408. (1976 Code § 10.32.050)
6-1-8: INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES:
The director of public works or local law enforcement, under the direction of
the town council, shall place and maintain traffic control signs, signals and
devices, conforming to the state manual and specifications, upon town streets,
except state highways, when and as required under the traffic ordinances, and
may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices as they or the
town council may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic
ordinances of the town or under state law, or to warn or guide traffic. (Ord.
2015-07, 8-12-2015)
6-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10.04.050)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking On Private Property
6-2-2: Obstructing Traffic
6-2-3: Parking In Alleys
6-2-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-2-5: Parking Restricted In Certain Areas
6-2-6: Parking Vehicles For Transport Of Flammable Liquids
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Consent Required: No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any
private lot or lot area without the express or implied consent of the owner
thereof.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: Whenever signs or markings have been erected on
any lot or lot area, contiguous or adjacent to a street, thoroughfare, or
alley, indicating that no vehicles are permitted to stand or park thereon, it
shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle across any curb or lot line
or over any driveway from a street or alley into said lot or area for the
purpose of standing or parking such vehicle, or, for any person to stop, stand,
or park any vehicle in such lot or lot area. (1976 Code § 10.08.010)
6-2-2: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. (1976 Code
§ 10.08.020)
6-2-3: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, whether occupied or
not, within any alley in the business district at any time otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle, whether occupied or
not, within any alley in the town in such a manner as to prevent the free
movement of vehicular traffic or in such a position as to block the driving
entrance to any abutting property, except when engaged in loading or unloading.
(1976 Code § 10.08.030)
6-2-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any street, roadway or public parking lot
for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising;
   C.   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   D.   Selling merchandise or tickets, or soliciting subscriptions. (1976 Code
§ 10.08.130)
6-2-5: PARKING RESTRICTED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   The parking of motor vehicles on particular streets or parts of streets
within the town is controlled by the regulations of this chapter and other
ordinances of the town.
   B.   When appropriate signs are erected, giving indication of such
regulations, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of any such
sign. (1976 Code § 10.44.010)
6-2-6: PARKING VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORT OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
No tank, truck, trailer or like vehicle containing, or used for the
transportation of, gasoline, butane, fuel oil or other highly flammable liquid
shall be parked on any street, alley, public park or other public place, nor
upon any private property in the town for a period longer than one hour.
Provided, that this restriction upon parking shall not be construed as to
prevent the delivery of such liquids to retail gas stations or to private
residences or business property for so long a period as is reasonably
necessary. (1976 Code § 10.08.050)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10.08.140)
CHAPTER 3
TRUCK RESTRICTIONS; ROUTES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Authority To Weigh Trucks
6-3-3: Truck Routes
6-3-4: Use Generally
6-3-5: Exceptions
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DEVIATING TRUCK: A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while
traveling inside the town.
TRANSACTING BUSINESS: The receiving or discharging of cargo.
TRUCK: Any motor vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of
property, and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceeds
twenty thousand (20,000) pounds.
TRUCK ROUTE: The designated course of street travel over and along which trucks
coming into and going out of the town shall operate. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-9-2014)
6-3-2: AUTHORITY TO WEIGH TRUCKS:
The law enforcement officer shall have the authority to require any person
driving or in control of any truck not proceeding over a truck route or street
over which truck traffic is permitted to proceed to any public or private scale
available for the purpose of weighing and determining compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-9-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-3: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Designation: There are established within the town the following truck
routes:
      1.   North Entry:
         a.   Trucks entering the town from the north on Highway 253 shall
enter the town limits using: 1) Montague Avenue; 2) Laundre Avenue; or 3)
Spring Street.
         b.   Trucks entering the town from the north on Fair Grounds Road or
Hoagland Street shall enter the town limits using: 1) Montague Avenue; 2)
Laundre Avenue; or 3) Spring Street.
      2.   South Entry: Trucks entering the town from the south on Ten Mile
Road or Highway 253 shall enter the town limits using: a) Spring Street; b)
Laundre Avenue; or c) Montague Avenue.
      3.   East Entry: Trucks entering the town from the east on Old Highway 10
shall enter the town limits using: a) Spring Street; b) Laundre Avenue; or c)
Montague Avenue.
      4.   West Entry: Trucks entering the town from the west on Old Highway 10
or Cemetery Loop Road shall enter the town limits using: a) Spring Street; b)
Laundre Avenue; or c) Montague Avenue.
   B.   Maps: The town clerk shall keep and maintain accurate maps setting out
truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is permitted. The maps shall
be kept on file in the office of the town clerk and shall be available to the
public. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-9-2014)
6-3-4: USE GENERALLY:
   A.   All trucks traveling within the town shall be operated only over and
along the truck routes and other permissible streets established by this
chapter.
   B.   Truckers utilizing the town streets shall do so in such manner as to
travel the most practicable route to their destination within the town. (Ord.
2014-05, 10-9-2014)
6-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not prohibit:
   A.   Street Necessary For Destination: The operation of trucks upon any
street that is necessary to gain access to a destination point for the purpose
of transacting business; provided, that streets designated as truck routes are
used until reaching the intersection nearest the destination necessitating
departure from the truck route.
   B.   Street Necessary For Departure: The operation of trucks upon any street
that is necessary to gain access to a particular truck route from a point of
departure; provided, that the most direct course providing such access is
followed.
   C.   Emergency Vehicles: The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street
in the town.
   D.   Town Public Utilities Or Street Repair Vehicles: The operation of
trucks owned or operated by the town or public utilities or any contractor or
subcontractor while engaged in the repair, maintenance, construction or
improvement of streets or street utilities within the town.
   E.   Detoured Trucks: The operation of trucks over streets designated as a
lawfully established detour.
   F.   Agricultural Trucks: The operation of agricultural or stock trucks
which are not loaded and are being used at the time for the sole purpose of
passenger transportation to the place of residence of the driver or owner,
provided such vehicle emits no noxious or offensive odors. (Ord. 2014-05, 10-9-
2014)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2014-05, 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Bicycles
6-4-2: Motorcycles
6-4-3: Penalty
6-4-1: BICYCLES:
   A.   Dismounting To Make Turn: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event he shall then
obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1976 Code § 10.16.010)
   B.   Manner Of Riding:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1976 Code § 10.16.020)
   C.   Parking: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon
the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or against a building, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. No person shall park a bicycle against a
glass window at any time. (1976 Code § 10.16.030)
   D.   Riding On Sidewalks: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1976 Code §
10.16.040; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Lamps And Other Equipment:
      1.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front. A lamp emitting a red light visible from
a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to
rear facing reflectors required by this section.
      2.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with an
essentially colorless front facing reflector, essentially colorless or amber
pedal reflectors, and a red rear facing reflector. Pedal reflectors shall be
mounted on the front and back of each pedal.
      3.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with either
tires with retroflective sidewalls or reflectors mounted on the spokes of each
wheel. Spoke mounted reflectors shall be within seventy six millimeters (76 mm)
(3.0 in) of the inside of the rim and shall be visible on each side of the
wheel. The reflectors on the front wheel shall be essentially colorless or
amber and the reflectors on the rear wheel shall be amber or red.
      4.   Reflectors required by this subsection E shall be of a type approved
by the state division of motor vehicles. (1976 Code § 10.16.050)
      5.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (2016
Code)
      6.   Bicycle owners are encouraged to have their bicycles equipped with a
flag clearly visible from the rear and suspended not less than six feet (6')
above the roadway when the bicycle is standing upright. The flag shall be
fluorescent orange in color. (1976 Code § 10.16.050)
6-4-2: MOTORCYCLES:
   A.   Motor Driven Cycles: The term "motorcycles" when used in this section,
shall include motor driven cycles. (1976 Code § 10.16.210)
   B.   General Traffic Laws Apply: Every person riding a motorcycle upon a
street or roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of
this traffic code and other traffic ordinances of the town, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of laws
which, by their nature, can have no such application. (1976 Code § 10.16.220)
6-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty has
not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10.16.230)
CHAPTER 5
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Effect Of Regulations
6-5-3: State Registration Required
6-5-4: Operation Generally
6-5-5: Unlawful Operation
6-5-6: Operation On Private Property
6-5-7: Riding On Streets, Roadways And Snowmobile Paths
6-5-8: Emerging From Alleys, Driveways And Buildings
6-5-9: Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited
6-5-10: Parking
6-5-11: Riding On Sidewalks
6-5-12: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
herein unless the context otherwise clearly requires that another meaning be
intended:
OPERATOR: Includes every person who operates or is in actual physical control
of the operation of a snowmobile.
OWNER: Includes every "person" as defined herein, other than a lienholder or
other person having a security interest only, holding record title to a
snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
PERSON: Includes an individual, partnership, association, corporation, and any
other body or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and regardless of
the degree of formal organization.
ROADWAY: Includes only those portions of any highway, road, or street improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for travel or parking of motor vehicles.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle of an overall width of forty eight inches
(48") or less, excluding accessories, designed primarily for travel on snow or
ice, that may be steered by skis or runners and that is not otherwise
registered or licensed under the laws of the state of Montana. (1976 Code §
10.50.010; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5-2: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   These regulations applicable to snowmobiles shall apply whenever a
snowmobile is operated upon any street, or upon any public path set aside for
the exclusive use of snowmobiles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1976 Code § 10.50.020)
6-5-3: STATE REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
The owner of a snowmobile shall register such vehicle at the county treasurer's
office in the county where the owner resides and shall further comply with all
provisions of Montana Code Annotated section 23-2-616. The owner shall display
in a conspicuous place on such registered vehicle, the registered number. (1976
Code § 10.50.030; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5-4: OPERATION GENERALLY:
   A.   Controlled Access Highway: No person shall operate a snowmobile upon a
controlled access highway or facility.
   B.   Crossing Street Or Highway: A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of
a street or highway, where such crossing is necessary to get to another
authorized area of operation. Such crossings shall be made at an angle of
approximately ninety degrees (90°) to the direction of the highway, at a place
where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing. The snowmobile shall
make a complete stop before entering upon any part of the highway or road and
the operator shall yield the right of way to all oncoming traffic.
   C.   Equipment: No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street or
highway when permitted to do so by this chapter, unless equipped with a brake
light, at least one headlamp and one taillamp, which shall be lighted at all
times during such operation, and unless equipped with a suitable braking device
which may be operated by either hand or foot. (1976 Code § 10.50.040)
6-5-5: UNLAWFUL OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in any
one or more of the following manners:
   A.   Violation Of State Or Local Laws: In violation of any statute of the
state of Montana or ordinance of the town of Terry, regulating the operation of
motor vehicles.
   B.   Careless Or Reckless Manner: In a careless or reckless manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another, or to cause injury or damage to
either.
   C.   Muffler: Without a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation which prevents excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   D.   Pulling Sled Or Trailer: To pull any sled or trailer or any other
object without a "rigid type" hitch. (1976 Code § 10.50.050)
6-5-6: OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Snowmobiles shall not be operated on private property without the permission of
the owner and at no time shall they be operated on sidewalks or posted areas.
(1976 Code § 10.50.060)
6-5-7: RIDING ON STREETS, ROADWAYS AND SNOWMOBILE PATHS:
   A.   Use Of Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a snowmobile upon
a street or roadway shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Riding Single File: Persons riding snowmobiles upon a street or roadway
shall not ride more than single file except on paths or parts of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of snowmobiles. (1976 Code § 10.50.070)
6-5-8: EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS AND BUILDINGS:
In emerging from alleys, driveways, or buildings, snowmobile operators shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (1976 Code § 10.50.080)
6-5-9: CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person riding upon any snowmobile shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon the street or roadway. (1976 Code § 10.50.090)
6-5-10: PARKING:
No person shall park a snowmobile upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1976 Code § 10.50.100)
6-5-11: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride a snowmobile upon any sidewalk. (1976 Code § 10.50.110)
6-5-12: PENALTY:
Violation of any section of this chapter, or any rule or regulation established
hereunder, shall be a misdemeanor and punishable by fine or imprisonment, or
both, as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10.50.120; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Materials Obstructing Streets
7-1-2: Signs, Fences And Other Structural Obstructions
7-1-3: Protection Of Streets And Traffic During Construction
7-1-1: MATERIALS OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
   A.   Permission Required: No person shall encumber or obstruct, or cause to
be encumbered or obstructed, any street, alley or other public place in the
town by placing therein or thereon any building materials, trash, vehicle,
earth, garbage, rubbish, debris, or accumulated snow and ice removed from an
adjoining private premises, without first having obtained permission in writing
from the town clerk, or other responsible town official. (1976 Code §
12.12.010)
   B.   Order To Remove:
      1.   An enforcement official or designee of the town council is
authorized to order any article or thing, of the kind mentioned in subsection A
of this section, which encumbers, litters or obstructs any street, alley or
other public place within the town, to be removed. (1976 Code § 12.12.020; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   If such removal shall not be made within six (6) hours after notice
to the owner or person in charge thereof, or if the owner cannot be readily
found for the purpose of such notice, the town shall cause the same to be
removed to some suitable place to be designated by such official, at the
expense of the person responsible thereof. (1976 Code § 12.12.020)
7-1-2: SIGNS, FENCES AND OTHER STRUCTURAL OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall place or maintain any shafts of wood, iron or other
material, billboards, signs, fences, poles, rods, cables, or wires in any of
the streets, public places or alleys of the town without having first obtained
a permit from the town council.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner or occupant of
any premises within the town, to erect, or cause to be erected, or to permit or
suffer to remain any sign, marquee, eave, or other private structures, which
project over any sidewalk or street adjoining any state or national highway
through the town, unless the lowest portion thereof shall have a clearance from
the top of the curb, sidewalk or highway shoulder elevation of not less than
seven and one-half feet (71/2'), and a lateral clearance of at least three feet
(3') behind the face of the curb, or sidewalk, or shoulder of the road, unless
permission for the erection or maintenance thereof shall have first been
secured from the town council. (1976 Code § 12.12.030)
      3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subsection A
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code; and in addition, the town shall have the right to remove
any sign, marquee, eave or other private structure unlawfully erected if the
same is not removed by the owner within five (5) days from the date of service
of notice to remove given by any town officer. (1976 Code § 12.12.030; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Structural Obstructions; Permit For Limited Time:
      1.   No person shall maintain any building, fence, porch, steps, gallery,
or other structure upon any street or alley within the town.
      2.   The town council may, in its discretion, grant permits to persons
which will allow them to maintain such structures for a limited time to be
specified in the permit. (1976 Code § 12.12.040)
   C.   Order To Remove:
      1.   Any building, fence, porch, steps, gallery, or other structural
obstruction now upon or hereafter placed or erected upon any street or alley
within the town, or which may be upon any new street or alley which may
hereafter be opened or created within the town, shall be removed therefrom
within a reasonable time, not exceeding thirty (30) days and not less than
three (3) days after an order to remove, in writing, has been given to the
owner or person responsible for such obstruction. (1976 Code § 12.12.050)
      2.   If the owner or person responsible for such obstruction cannot be
readily found for the purpose of such notice, it shall be the duty of an
enforcement official or designee of the town council to cause the obstruction
to be removed, in his discretion. The expense of such removal shall be
recoverable from the owner or person responsible for the obstruction. (1976
Code § 12.12.050; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Any person who interferes with, resists or obstructs by acts or
threats, the removal of any such obstruction shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter. (1976 Code § 12.12.050)
   D.   Order To Remove Obstructions: Notice to remove obstructions described
in subsections A and C of this section, specifying same, and the place and
extent of same, shall be given to the occupant or owner of the land involved,
or to the person owning or causing such obstruction. Notice shall be given by
leaving such notice at the place of residence of the person to be served, if he
resides in the town, or by posting such notice on the obstruction, if such
person does not reside in the town. (1976 Code § 12.12.060)
7-1-3: PROTECTION OF STREETS AND TRAFFIC DURING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Barricades And Warning Lights:
      1.   Whenever excavation work in any street in the town is in progress,
efficient barricades shall be erected by the contractor, or other person in
control, around all trenches or embankments made by him within the limits of
any street or sidewalk. Red lights shall be maintained thereon from dusk to
daylight until the street or sidewalk shall be restored to a safe and passable
condition.
      2.   Failure or omission to protect against accident, in the manner
required by this section, shall cause a forfeiture of any permit which may have
been granted with reference thereto.
      3.   Following completion of the construction work and restoration of the
street or sidewalk to a safe and passable condition, the contractor or person
in charge of the work shall promptly remove all barricades, warning lights and
other safety devices from the street or sidewalk. (1976 Code § 12.16.010)
   B.   Traveling Upon Streets With Barricades: No person shall walk upon or
drive upon a street, alley or sidewalk barricaded as stated in this section.
(1976 Code § 12.16.020)
   C.   Removal Of Barricades And Warning Devices Prohibited: Whenever any
barricade, red light or other warning device shall have been placed upon the
streets, alleys or sidewalks of the town in the course of his duty, or by any
contractor working on any street, alley or sidewalk, no person shall move or
remove such red light, barricade or other warning device. (1976 Code §
12.16.030)
   D.   Marking Wet Concrete: Where lights, signs, barricades or obstructions
have been placed and maintained to protect concrete, no person shall walk, run,
drive, ride or step upon the newly laid concrete, so as to mark, mar, or in any
way, injure the same. (1976 Code § 12.16.040)
   E.   Chipping Concrete: No person other than an enforcement official or
designee of the town council shall intentionally or wilfully chip, break, cut
or in any manner, deface or injure any concrete in any sidewalk, curb, gutter
or pavement. (1976 Code § 12.16.050; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating a provision of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 12.16.060; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Permit; Bond; And Insurance Required
7-2-3: Surface And Subsurface Restoration Required
7-2-4: Minimum Travel Interference
7-2-5: Time Limit For Open Excavation
7-2-6: Backfilling
7-2-7: Protection Of Existing Utilities
7-2-8: Revocation Of Permit
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EXCAVATION: Shall mean and include any ditch, trench, cut, hole or change of
grade.
STREET: The entire width of a highway between the boundary lines of other
public or private properties on the sides. (1976 Code § 12.04.010)
7-2-2: PERMIT; BOND; AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements: No person, association or corporation shall open up, dig
into, excavate or tunnel in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or public
places of the Town, whether to connect with any of the mains or pipes, to
connect with any sewer, or for any other purpose, without having first:
      1.   Obtained a permit from the Town;
      2.   Posted with the Town Clerk a good and sufficient indemnity and
performance security bond; and
      3.   Filed with the Town Clerk a certificate of insurance or its
equivalent providing for public liability coverage.
   B.   Permit: The fee for a permit required by subsection A1 of this section
shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   Bond: The indemnity and performance security bond required by
subsection A2 of this section shall be not less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) payable to the Town, to protect the Town from any liability of any
kind or character whatsoever, which may arise as a result of said permittee's
opening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the Town, or which may in
any way or manner be connected therewith, or related thereto and to guaranty
that the refilling, compacting and restoration of the surface and subsurface of
the opened street, avenue, alley or public place is in accordance with
specifications set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Insurance: The insurance required by subsection A3 of this section
shall be public liability coverage in the sum of not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for each person, and an aggregate sum of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for more than one person on account of any one
accident, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage, to
protect the parties and indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the Town from any
expense, cost, damage and any liability of any kind or character whatsoever
resulting from or which may arise as a result of said permittee's opening any
such street, avenue, alley or public place, or which may in any way be
connected therewith, or relating thereto. (Ord. 2017-03, 10-12-2017)
7-2-3: SURFACE AND SUBSURFACE RESTORATION REQUIRED:
   A.   All persons, associations or corporations making excavations in any
street, avenue, alley or public place of the Town shall be responsible for
refilling and compacting in accordance with specifications set forth in this
chapter and shall be responsible for surface and subsurface restoration within
fourteen (14) days from the date of making said excavation, unless otherwise
agreed to in writing by the Town.
   B.   The party making excavation is responsible for all costs incurred in
refilling, compacting, and surface and subsurface restoration. (Ord. 2017-03,
10-12-2017)
7-2-4: MINIMUM TRAVEL INTERFERENCE:
Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. At no time during the progress of the work shall
sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked to travel. (1976 Code § 12.04.050)
7-2-5: TIME LIMIT FOR OPEN EXCAVATION:
The time that any street or alley excavation is open may be limited by an
enforcement official or designee of the Town Council. (1976 Code § 12.04.060;
amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-6: BACKFILLING:
   A.   Restoration Of Street Surface: After the completing of the laying of
any pipe, line or conduit, or the installation or repair of any facility for
which the excavation was undertaken, the excavator shall cause the work to be
backfilled in such a manner as to make the street in as good a condition as
before the excavation.
   B.   Maintenance: Any person making any excavation in any street or alley,
as set forth in this chapter, shall be fully responsible for the maintenance of
the excavation for a period of six (6) months after the backfill thereof. If
any settlement occurs in the area that was formerly excavated, the excavator or
person causing the excavation shall immediately upon notice fill in the
settling and put the street, alley, or avenue, in as good a condition as
possible for use by the public. (1976 Code § 12.04.070)
7-2-7: PROTECTION OF EXISTING UTILITIES:
The contractor shall be responsible for contacting and working with the owner
of the particular utility involved to pinpoint exact locations during
construction. The Town Clerk shall cooperate with the contractor in locating
these features but failure to locate such utilities or property or failure to
show on the plans shall not relieve the contractor for all damage to existing
utilities at his own expense. Any delay or extra cost to the contractor caused
by pipelines or other underground structures or obstructions not shown on the
plans, or found in locations different from those indicated, shall not
constitute a claim for extra work or additional payment of damages. Adequate
provisions shall be made for maintaining the flow of sewers, drains and
watercourses encountered during construction, and structures which may have
been disturbed shall be satisfactorily restored upon completion of the work. If
any existing utility is located so that it interferes with the work in either
alignment or grade and has to be moved or otherwise modified or projected, such
work shall be done by the contractor, and adjustment in payment will be made at
a price agreed upon, in writing, before the work is started. (1976 Code §
12.04.090)
7-2-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Any permit issued under authority of this chapter may be revoked for
failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with the
specification, methods or time limit required or approved by the Town.
   B.   Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request, receive a
hearing before the Town Council or person designated by the Council. The
Council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any other action
it deems proper. (1976 Code § 12.04.080)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 12.04.100; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SIDEWALK, CURB AND DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Driveway Construction
7-3-2: Sidewalk Construction
7-3-3: Wheelchair Ramps
7-3-1: DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit And Bond Required:
      1.   No person shall break any curb or make any opening or excavation for
the purpose of constructing a driveway on any of the paved areas of any of the
streets, avenues or alleys of the town without first making application, filing
suitable bond, and obtaining a permit from the town council therefor.
      2.   The council shall make rules and regulations as to the amount and
conditions under which such payment shall be made. The council may, in its
discretion, waive the filing of bond. (1976 Code § 12.08.010)
   B.   Application For Permit: All applications for permits for driveways must
contain a description of the property to be served and such other information
as may be required by the town clerk, and must be signed by the owner or his
authorized agent. (1976 Code § 12.08.020)
   C.   Construction Standards; Granting Of Permit:
      1.   Standards and required specifications for the construction of
driveways shall be declared by the town council, and a copy of same shall be on
file in the office of the town clerk.
      2.   Plans for the proposed driveway shall be submitted by the applicant
to the town clerk, or other responsible town official designated by the council
for that purpose. No permit for the construction of a driveway shall be denied
where it is shown by the applicant that the proposed work conforms to the
standards and specifications prescribed by the town.
      3.   Whenever a proposed driveway construction plan varies from the town
standards and specifications, the council may grant a permit to the applicant
where, in its opinion, the variance will not cause damage to the surrounding
street and sidewalk area. (1976 Code § 12.08.030)
   D.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Any permit issued under authority of this section may be revoked for
failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with the
specifications, methods, or time limit required or approved by the town.
      2.   Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request, receive a
hearing before the town council or person designated by the council. The
council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any other action
that it deems proper. (1976 Code § 12.08.040)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating a provision of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 12.08.050; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Order For Construction Without Forming Special Improvement District:
The town council may order sidewalks, curbs and gutters or any combination
thereof, constructed in front of any lot or parcel of land without the
formation of a special improvement district, and whenever the council shall
order any such sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any combination thereof,
constructed, such order shall be entered upon the minutes of the council and
shall name the street along which said sidewalk, curb and gutter, or any
combination thereof is to be constructed. (1976 Code § 12.24.010)
   B.   Notice Of Order For Construction: After the making of such order,
written notice thereof shall be personally served on the owner or agent of such
property. If personal service cannot be obtained, then the notice shall be
published in a prominently displayed advertisement, once a week for four (4)
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. (1976 Code
§ 12.24.010; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Failure Of Owner To Comply; Construction By Town; Assessment Of Costs:
If the owner or agent of such lot or parcel of land shall fail or neglect for a
period of thirty (30) days after the date of service of such notice to cause
such sidewalk, curb, and gutter, or any combination thereof, to be constructed,
the town may construct or cause to be constructed, and shall assess the cost
thereof, including engineering costs and the costs enumerated in Montana Code
Annotated section 7-12-4169, against the property in front of which the same is
constructed.
   D.   Manner Of Payment For Town Construction Costs: When any such sidewalk,
curb and gutter, or any combination thereof is constructed by or under
direction of the council, payment for the construction thereof shall be made by
special warrants in such form as may be prescribed by ordinance drawn against a
fund to be known as special sidewalk, curb and gutter fund, and the council may
provide for the payment of said interest annually.
   E.   Time Limit For Payment: The payment of assessments to defray the cost
of construction of said sidewalks, curbs and gutters, or any combination
thereof, may be spread over a term of not to exceed eight (8) years, payment to
be made in equal annual installments.
   F.   Annual Adoption Of Assessment Resolution: The council shall annually,
and before the first Monday of October of each year, pass and adopt a
resolution levying an assessment and tax against each lot or parcel of land in
front of which sidewalks, curbs and gutters, or any combination thereof, have
been constructed under orders of the council. Said resolution levying such
assessment shall be in every manner prepared and certified the same as
resolutions levying assessments for the making of improvements in special
improvement districts.
   G.   Specific Construction Requirements: The distance from the outside line
of the curb to the property line shall be sixteen feet (16') in the residence
district and ten feet (10') in the business district. The curb at the street
intersections in the residence district shall be set with a radius of ten feet
(10'). (1976 Code § 12.24.010)
7-3-3: WHEELCHAIR RAMPS:
In all future construction, or reconstruction, of sidewalks and curbs in the
town, wheelchair ramps shall be built and installed in conformity with the
wheelchair ramp plans and specifications, on file in the office of the town
clerk, at every corner of a block in such new construction, or reconstruction,
of such curbs and sidewalks. (1976 Code § 12.32.010; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-4-3: Private Wastewater Disposal
7-4-4: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
7-4-5: Restrictions On Use Of Public Sewers
7-4-6: Damage Sewer Structures Or Equipment
7-4-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-4-8: Violations; Penalties
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called "house connection".
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater or
surface water.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
HEARING BOARD: The town council of the town of Terry.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: "May" is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 107/8.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, and surface waters that are
not admitted intentionally.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater", as
defined in this section.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory (see definition of May).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The director of public works of the town of Terry, or his
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"water pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Objectionable Waste Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies And Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the town, and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, are hereby required at the
owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; provided, that the owners do not now have a septic
tank, and provided that sewer service is available.
   E.   Compliance With State Requirements: The hookup to the town sewer, as
provided in subsection D of this section, shall be done in accordance with the
requirements of the state of Montana. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection To Private System: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 7-4-2D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Required; Application; Fee:
      1.   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit approved by the town
council.
      2.   The application for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the town.
      3.   A permit and inspection fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall
be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection Required:
      1.   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. The superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered.
      2.   The inspection shall be made within seventy two (72) hours of the
receipt of the notice by the town.
   D.   Compliance With State Requirements: The type, capacities, location, and
layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the department of public health of the state of Montana.
   E.   Septic Tank Use Limitation: Any septic tanks, cesspools, and other
private wastewater disposal facilities which are being used on the effective
date hereof may not be replaced, if sewer service is available.
   F.   Maintenance In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times,
at no expense to the town.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this chapter shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-4: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   B.   Classes Of Building Sewers; Application; Fees:
      1.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: a) for
residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
      2.   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the town.
      3.   A permit and inspection fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed. A permit and inspection fee for industrial
sewer building permits shall be determined by the town at the time the
application is filed.
   C.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expense incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Two Buildings On Lot: A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the town does
not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by
or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   E.   Materials And Construction Requirements: The size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of all sanitary sewers including building sewers, and
methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town and the
state of Montana.
   F.   Flow To Public Sewer: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   G.   Surface Runoff Or Groundwater Prohibited From Public Sewer: No person
shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer unless such connection is approved by the director of public works and
the Montana state department of health for purposes of disposal of polluted
surface drainage.
   H.   Building Sewer Connection Into Public Sewer Requirements: The
connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town and the state of Montana.
   I.   Inspection Required: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the director of public works when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall
be made under the supervision of the director of public works or his
representative.
   J.   Excavations Guarded: All excavations for building sewer installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the town.
   K.   Pipes And Fittings: All sanitary sewer pipe and fittings shall be PVC
SDR 35 or approved equivalent. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-5: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the director of public works and the Montana
state department of health.
   B.   Stormwater other than that exempted under subsection A of this section,
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically approved by the director of public works, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard including, but
not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one
hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) using
the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21. These wastes include, but are not
limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, etc., in solid, liquid or
gaseous form.
      2.   Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of
any town system, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
equipment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance,
or result in the pass-through of inadequately treated wastes to receiving
waters.
Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the town of Terry treatment
works shall pay for such increased costs.
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   The following described substances, materials, waters and wastes shall
be limited in discharges to town systems to concentrations or quantities which
will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any town system, the wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property,
or constitute a nuisance. The director of public works may set limitations
lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if, in his
opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability, the director of
public works will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject
waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations
or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters
discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval
of the director of public works are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils,
or products of mineral oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat, or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
"properly shredded garbage" in section
7-4-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or deleterious substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the director of
public works for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic or obnoxious gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in
quantities which may cause acute worker health and safety concerns or public
nuisance.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the director of public works
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section
7-4-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over the receiving waters.
      10.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW but
in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the POTW is specifically
designed to accommodate such discharges.
      12.   Any trucked or hauled wastes unless the POTW is designed to
adequately treat the wastes and the facility has points designated for such
discharges.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which in
the judgment of the director of public works may have a deleterious effect upon
the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the director
of public works may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
subsection K of this section.
If the director of public works permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the director of public works and the
Montana state department of health.
   F.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director of public works, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as
specified in subsection D3 of this section, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the director of public works and the Montana
state plumbing code, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
director of public works. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials
not performed by owner personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
   G.   Where pretreatment or flow equalization facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   When required by the director of public works, the owner of the
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the director of public works. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   I.   The director of public works may require a user of sewer services to
provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater's discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the town sewer.
   J.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the director of public
works.
   K.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-6: DAMAGE SEWER STRUCTURES OR EQUIPMENT:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct or criminal
mischief. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
7-4-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The director of public works and other
duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharge to the community system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Obtaining Information; Confidentiality: The director of public works or
other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning
industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold
information considered confidential. The industry must establish that the
revelation to the public of the information in question might result in an
advantage to competitors.
   C.   Observing Safety Rules; Hold Harmless Agreement: While performing the
necessary work on private properties referred to in subsection A of this
section, the director of public works or duly authorized employees of the town
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection
7-4-5H of this chapter.
   D.   Entering Private Property Through Easements: The director of public
works and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord., 6-9-
1998)
7-4-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time Limit To Remedy: Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter, except section
7-4-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord., 6-9-1998; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Liability For Town Expense: Any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned by the town by reason of such violation. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Park Use
7-5-2: Hours Of Operation
7-5-3: Murn Park
7-5-4: Penalty
7-5-1: PARK USE:
Unless reserved according to park reservation procedures adopted by the Town of
Terry, the use of parks or any portion thereof by the public shall be on a
first-come, first-served basis.
The Town of Terry shall from time to time establish by resolution policies for
the reservation of parks and a schedule of fees for various park uses. (Ord.
2017-02, 5-18-2017)
7-5-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Hours: All parks shall be open to the public every day of the year
subject to the exceptions established herein;
   B.   General Closure: Any section or part of any park may be closed to the
public by the Town of Terry. Notice of closing shall be posted in a conspicuous
manner;
   C.   Open Hours: Murn Park shall be open from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on a daily basis, unless extended hours are authorized
by the Town of Terry. (Ord. 2017-02, 5-18-2017)
7-5-3: MURN PARK:
It is unlawful for any person in Murn Park to:
   A.   Mark, deface, disfigure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, grills, railings, paving or
paving material, water lines, equipment, signs, drinking fountains, swimming or
wading pools or other park property, improvements or appurtenances whatsoever,
real or personal;
   B.   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition;
   C.   Dump dirt, grass and tree clippings or dig, remove, plant or deposit
any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or other wood or
materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment or other means or agency
except as authorized by the Town of Terry;
   D.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public utility into, upon or
across park property, except by special written permit issued hereunder;
   E.   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or injure the
bark, dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the
natural beauty or usefulness of any area;
   F.   Climb any tree or walk, climb, stand or sit upon buildings, monuments,
statues, vases, planters, fountains, railings, fences or upon any other
structure not designated or customarily used for such purpose;
   G.   Attach any rope, cable, structure, device or other contrivance to any
tree, fence, railing, bridge, bench, building or other structure unless
otherwise posted. This prohibition does not include locking bicycles to the
foregoing mentioned structures as long as no damage is done to the structure,
so long as the bicycle does not interfere with the use and enjoyment of the
park by others, and so long as the bicycle is not locked to the structure for a
period of time exceeding twenty four (24) hours;
   H.   Litter or fail to deposit litter in provided garbage receptacles. Where
receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away
from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed
of elsewhere;
   I.   Break glass objects and then fail to remove broken glass and dispose of
the broken glass in such fashion so as not to cause injury to persons or
property;
   J.   Cause or permit any domestic animal to run loose, or fail to keep such
animal under restraint. Further, every owner or person having custody of said
dog or other domestic animal shall remove and properly dispose of the animal's
solid waste (fecal material);
   K.   Tie or hitch an animal to any tree or plant;
   L.   Pasture or pen any animal, domesticated or wild, except as authorized
by the Town of Terry;
   M.   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot
or throw missiles at any animal, nor remove from the park or have in his
possession any animal, or the eggs or nest, or young of any animal. Exception
to the foregoing is made in that a snake known to be poisonous may be killed on
sight. This regulation does not apply to officers of the State or local
government acting within the course and scope of their duties;
   N.   No horses are allowed in the park except by special permission by the
Town of Terry; for parades a parade permit is required;
   O.   Start a fire except in facilities installed and provided for such
purpose, or to fail to completely extinguish a fire upon leaving the park;
   P.   Camp overnight or picnic except in designated areas;
   Q.   Display, offer to sell, or sell any article or service without first
obtaining a permit from the Town of Terry, except for sanctioned events;
   R.   Bring or discharge any firearm, air gun, bow and arrow, slingshot,
spear, boomerang or any other form of potentially dangerous weapon in the park;
   S.   Possess or bring fireworks into the park, or cause the fireworks to be
ignited or exploded in the park except at an event sanctioned by the Town of
Terry;
   T.   Skateboard, roller-skate, in-line skate, ride a bike or similar
recreational device with wheels outside of designated areas;
   U.   Operate a skateboard, roller-skate, in-line skate, ride a bike or
similar recreational device with wheels on or against any Town-owned table,
bench, structure, bike rack, parking stop, retaining wall, fountain, statue,
railing, stage, or other improvement which may suffer damage by such use;
   V.   Operate a skateboard, roller-skate, in-line skate, or ride a bike or
similar recreational device with wheels on or in any pavilion;
   W.   Practice golf with real golf balls in the park;
   X.   Drive, operate or park any vehicle or trailer on parklands or trails,
except as authorized by the Town of Terry;
   Y.   Tamper with any control, mechanical device, or any of the park's
attractions. (Ord. 2017-02, 5-18-2017)
7-5-4: PENALTY:
It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter and a conviction of said violation shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment for a term not to exceed
six (6) months, or both. (Ord. 2017-02, 5-18-2017)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of Code
8-1-2: Building Inspector
8-1-3: Board Of Appeals
8-1-4: Conducting Inspections
8-1-5: Building Plan Review
8-1-6: Factory Built Buildings
8-1-7: School Plans
8-1-8: Territorial Application
8-1-9: Violations; Penalties
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the town council for the purposes
of regulating buildings in the town, and of protecting the health and safety of
the town's citizens, that certain code known as the uniform building code, 1976
edition (the building code), adopted and copyrighted by the International
Conference Of Building Officials, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
   B.   Copy On File: One copy of the code shall be filed with the town clerk
for inspection by the public. (Ord., 12-9-1980; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Qualifications And Duties: The building official is the building
inspector. He shall be a person with at least three (3) years of experience in
the building trade. As building inspector, his duties shall include those set
forth in chapter 2 of the building code and in Montana Code Annotated title 50,
chapter 60, as now or hereinafter amended.
   B.   Building Department Staff: The building department staff shall consist
of the building official and such deputies or representatives as he may from
time to time appoint in accordance with chapter 2 of the building code. (Ord.,
12-9-1980)
8-1-3: BOARD OF APPEALS:
In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of
the building code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals,
consisting of three (3) members who are qualified by experience and training to
pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. The building official
shall be an ex officio member and shall act as secretary of the board. The
board of appeals shall be appointed by the town council and shall hold office
at its pleasure. The board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings in
writing to the building official with a duplicate copy to the appellant and may
recommend to the town council such new legislation as is consistent herewith.
(Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-4: CONDUCTING INSPECTIONS:
Inspections shall be conducted by the building official. Where other
departments require inspection, the building official shall ensure that they
are conducted within the time frame allowed in section
8-1-5 of this chapter. Final inspections and issuance of certificates of
occupancy shall be conducted in accordance with sections 304 through 306 of the
building code. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-5: BUILDING PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Responsibility Of Building Official: The building official shall be
responsible for plan review coordination and for issuance of building permits.
   B.   Application For Building Permit; Review Of Plan Required: Upon
application by any person for a building permit, the building official shall
review the plans for compliance with the building code. The building official
shall submit the plans to any other affected town department for review and
approval by that department before issuance of a permit.
   C.   Time Limit For Review: Building plan review shall be completed by the
building official within thirty (30) working days of submittal by applicant.
   D.   Request For Aid From State: The building official may, in proper cases,
request the aid of the building codes division, other state agencies, or
professional consultants to aid in coordination of review. In such cases, the
building official may lengthen the completion time for review by ten (10)
working days when necessary. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-6: FACTORY BUILT BUILDINGS:
Factory built buildings which are approved by the Montana building codes
division, department of administration, shall be subject to local government
inspection and fees for only zoning, utility connections and foundations.
Applications to the building official for erection and utility connection shall
be in accordance with sections 2 and 3 of the building code. The fees for
permits for factory built buildings shall be one-half (1/2) the amount of fees
for other buildings. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-7: SCHOOL PLANS:
Inspection and approval of plans for school buildings shall be in accordance
with rule ARM 2-2.1 (1) -S11050 (i). The building official shall notify the
building codes division of local approval of site, sewer, water and other local
requirements within five (5) days of such approval before further action is
taken. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-8: TERRITORIAL APPLICATION:
The jurisdictional area of the building department of the town shall be the
corporate limits of the town of Terry. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
8-1-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the town,
or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or the building code.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or the building code shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of
the provisions of the building code is committed, continued or permitted; and,
upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or by imprisonment for not
more than zero days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord., 12-9-1980)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adoption Of Code
8-2-2: Penalty
8-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   Adoption; Copy On File:
      1.   The national electrical code, 1968 edition, copyrighted by the
National Fire Protection Association, together with the appendix and all
subsequent amendments and additions thereto is declared to be the town
electrical code for the purpose of prescribing regulations for the purpose of
safeguarding persons and buildings and their contents from hazards arising from
the use of electricity for light, heat, power, radio, and for other purposes.
      2.   One full printed copy of the code shall be on file in the office of
the town clerk. The aforesaid national electrical code is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, and for all intents and
purposes, as though set forth herein at length. It shall be known and
designated as the "electrical code" of the town. (1976 Code § 15.16.010)
   B.   Changes In Electrical Code: The electrical code, described in
subsection A of this section, is amended by the additions, deletions and
modifications set forth in the following sections of this chapter. (1976 Code §
15.16.020)
8-2-2: PENALTY:
Any and all penalties in the electrical code are replaced by the following
penalty provision: Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (1976 Code § 15.16.030)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Adoption Of Code
8-3-2: Permits And Fees
8-3-3: Penalty
8-3-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   Adoption: The uniform plumbing code, 1970 edition, volume I,
copyrighted by the International Association Of Plumbing And Mechanical
Officials, together with the appendix and all subsequent amendments and
additions thereto, is declared to be the town plumbing code for the purpose of
prescribing regulations for the qualification and registration of persons
engaged in the business or trade of plumbing, requiring permits, establishing
minimum regulations for the installation, alteration, or repair of plumbing and
drainage systems and the inspection thereof.
   B.   Copy Of File: One full printed copy of the code shall be on file in the
office of the town clerk. The aforesaid uniform plumbing code is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, and for all intents and
purposes, as though set forth herein at length. It shall be known and
designated as the "plumbing code" of the town. (1976 Code § 15.12.010)
   C.   Changes In Plumbing Code: The plumbing code, described in subsection A
of this section, is amended by the additions, deletions and modifications set
forth in the following sections of this chapter. (1976 Code § 15.12.020)
8-3-2: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Connection To Sewer Required: Every business building or public or
semipublic building must be separately and independently connected with the
sewer; and every residence building must be separately and independently
connected with the sewer; except, however, that more than one house on the same
or adjacent lots or a home and a private garage or shop on the same or adjacent
lots or tourist cabins must be connected to the sewer with one connection. Such
multiple connections may be made only with the special permission of the town
council and the building inspector.
   B.   Permit Required; Fees: Each property owner shall obtain a permit from
the building inspector. Fees for inspection are as follows:
      1.   New Work:
 
Inspecting sewer connection             $3.00
Plumbing, 5 fixtures or less, roughing  1.00
Plumbing, 5 fixtures or less, finishing 1.00
Each additional fixture                 0.50
 
The inspector shall be notified on the roughing, when tested for inspection and
ready for inspection and also on the finishing.
      2.   Old Work: For old work of changing the same, inspection for each
fixture will be fifty cents ($0.50) at the time that application is made,
either by plumber, property owner or any other person, for doing plumbing work.
Payment for all inspections must be made to the building inspector. If
additional connections or fixtures are added later, payment must be made for
the same before certificate of inspection will be issued. (1976 Code §
15.12.030)
8-3-3: PENALTY:
Any and all penalties in the plumbing code are replaced by the following
penalty provision: Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars
($300.00). (1976 Code § 15.12.040)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Adoption Of Code
8-4-2: Penalty
8-4-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   Adoption: The fire prevention code, 1970 edition, recommended by the
American Insurance Association, together with the appendices and all subsequent
amendments and additions thereto, is declared to be the town fire prevention
code for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous
to life and property from fire or explosion. (1976 Code § 15.08.010; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Copy On File: One full printed copy of the code shall be on file in the
office of the town clerk. The aforesaid fire prevention code is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, and for all intents and
purposes, as though set forth herein at length. It shall be known and
designated as the "fire prevention code" of the town. (1976 Code § 15.08.010)
   C.   Changes In Code: The aforesaid fire prevention code, described in
subsection A of this section, is amended by the additions, deletions and
modifications set forth in the following sections of this chapter. (1976 Code §
15.08.020)
8-4-2: PENALTY:
Any and all penalties in the fire prevention code are replaced by the following
penalty provisions: Any person violating a provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (1976 Code § 15.08.030)
CHAPTER 5
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Uniform System
8-5-2: Manner Of Numbering
8-5-3: Street Sign Placement
8-5-1: UNIFORM SYSTEM:
The purpose of this chapter is to set up a uniform system for numbering of
buildings in the town. The numbering of buildings shall begin from Towne Avenue
East and West and from Laundre Avenue North and South, the buildings facing on
the north/south streets to be numbered from Laundre Avenue and those buildings
facing east/west streets to be numbered from Towne Avenue. Buildings in the
first block shall be numbered in the 100s, those in the second block in the
200s, etc. (1976 Code § 12.28.010)
8-5-2: MANNER OF NUMBERING:
It is provided that buildings on the south side or east side of streets shall
be numbered with even numbers and buildings on the north side or west side of
any street shall be numbered with uneven numbers. It is further provided that a
number should be left for each lot in case other buildings are erected on lots
at present vacant. (For example: If the corner lot would bear number 100, the
next lot would be number 102, the third lot would be number 104, the fourth lot
would be 106, etc.) The house numbers should be selected as nearly as possible
to correspond to the lot upon which the building is situated and if more than
one lot, to the lot upon which the principal part of the building is situated.
(1976 Code § 12.28.020)
8-5-3: STREET SIGN PLACEMENT:
It is provided that street signs showing the street names be placed on a post
at the southwest corner of each intersection so far as practicable and that
said posts shall bear signs capable of being seen from both directions. (1976
Code § 12.28.030)
CHAPTER 6
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definition
8-6-2: Prohibition
8-6-3: Abatement
8-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous buildings", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health or safety because of its condition, and which
may cause or aid in the spread of disease, or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage
by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by disorderly persons or animals, including rodents. (1976 Code §
7.16.010; amd. 2016 Code)
8-6-2: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the town; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in control of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is, or remains in a dangerous condition. (1976 Code § 7.16.020)
8-6-3: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Existence Of Dangerous Building To Owner: Whenever an
enforcement official or designee of the town council shall be of the opinion
that any building or structure in the town is a "dangerous building", he shall
file a written statement to this effect with the town clerk. The clerk shall
thereupon cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon
the occupant thereof, if any, by registered mail, or by personal service. Such
notice shall state the building has been declared to be in a dangerous
condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by
repairing or altering the building, or by demolishing it; and that the
condition must be remedied at once. Such notice may be in the following form:
To                      (owner-occupant) of the premises known and described
as:
You are hereby notified that                    (describe building) on the
premises above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous
building after inspection by                   .
The causes for this decision are                    (here insert the facts as
to the dangerous condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
Town of Terry will proceed to do so. Action must be taken within ten (10) days.
   B.   Remedial Action By Town: If the person receiving the notice has not
complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of the officer or
employee finding that a dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the
time when this notice is served upon such person by personal service or
registered mail, an enforcement official or designee of the town council duly
empowered, may, upon orders of the town council, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the dangerous building. (1976 Code § 7.16.030; amd. 2016
Code)
