CITY CODE
of
THREE FORKS, MONTANA
2000
Code current through:
Ordinance 406-2025, passed 8-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Three Forks, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including Ordinance 406-2025, passed August 12, 2025. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 264-2001
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY OF THREE FORKS, MONTANA MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Three Forks,
Montana, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Three Forks, Montana prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 12th day of September, 2000.
APPROVED this 12th day of September, 2000.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3534ffbd0cce1020e68c68b3ea87b3386576b635/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1206.png]
 
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the Official City Code of Three Forks. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the THREE FORKS CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (2000 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
 1-2-1 of this Title. (2000 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (2000 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Scope And Applicability Of Provisions
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2000 Code)
1-2-3: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Past Actions And Obligations:
      1.   Neither the adoption of this Code nor the consequent repeal or
amendment of any ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the City
shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which
violations were committed prior to the effective date hereof, nor be construed
as a waiver of any license, fee, or penalty due and unpaid under such
ordinance, or affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required to be
posted, filed, or deposited pursuant to any such ordinance.
      2.   The repeal provided for in Section
1-2-1 of this Chapter shall not affect any ordinance or resolution promising or
guaranteeing the payment of money to or by the City or any evidence of the
City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City. Such
repeal shall not affect the annual tax levy; nor shall it affect any right or
franchise conferred by ordinance or resolution on any person or corporation;
nor shall it affect any ordinance relating to the salaries of the City officers
and employees. (1977 Code § 1.02.040)
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (2000 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2000 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The City of Three Forks, County of Gallatin, State of Montana.
   CODE: The City Code of the City of Three Forks.
   COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Council of the City of Three Forks.
   COUNTY: The County of Gallatin, State of Montana.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Three Forks".
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on July 1 of each
year.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MCA: Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Three Forks".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The State of Montana.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2000 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2000
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Execution Of Sentences
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code or state statute, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this code shall be sentenced to a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), six (6) months' imprisonment, and/or ordered to provide
community service or any combination of fine, imprisonment and community
service not to exceed the limits set herein. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. The city court may impose a
court fee in the amount established by the city council for each violation of
the city code. (Ord. 357-15, 4-14-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-5-109, 7-5-4207.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2000 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2000
Code)
1-4-4: EXECUTION OF SENTENCES:
   A.   Officer Of Jurisdiction: If any person shall plead guilty or shall be
convicted of a breach, infraction or violation of any ordinance now or
hereafter enacted or in force in the city, the judgment must be executed by a
police officer of the city. (1977 Code § 9.08.010; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-
10, 11-10-2009)
   B.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: When a judgment of imprisonment is entered, a
certified copy thereof must be delivered to the city judge, which is a
sufficient warrant for its execution.
   C.   Imposition Of Fine: If a judgment is rendered imposing a fine only,
without imprisonment for nonpayment, and the defendant is not detained for any
other legal cause, he must be discharged as soon as the judgment is given.
   D.   Imprisonment For Satisfaction Of Fine:
      1.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine be satisfied, in the proportion of one day's
imprisonment for the daily rate of credit for incarceration established
annually by the Gallatin County commissioners.
      2.   When such a judgment is rendered, the defendant must be held in
custody for the time specified in the judgment, unless the fine is sooner paid.
   E.   Payment To Judge: Any officer charged with the collection of fines,
under the provisions of this section, must return the execution to the judge
within thirty (30) days from its delivery to him and pay over to the judge the
money collected therefrom, deducting his fees for the collection.
   F.   Receipt For Fines Collected: All fines imposed and collected by a city
court must be paid to the city treasurer within thirty (30) days after the
receipt of the same, and the city judge must take duplicate receipts therefor,
one of which he must deposit with the city clerk. (1977 Code § 9.08.010; amd.
2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Form: The Corporate Seal of the City shall be circular in form with the
words "City of Three Forks, Montana", on the upper part of the outer circle,
and the words "County of Gallatin", on the lower part of said circle; and on
the upper part of the smaller and interior circle the word "Incorporated", on
the lower part of said circle the figures "1910", and in the center of said
interior circle the word "Seal" in large letters. (1977 Code § 2.04.010)
   B.   Authentication Of Documents: The Corporate Seal shall be used to
authenticate all ordinances, and resolutions having the force and effect of an
ordinance, all contracts entered into by the City, on the part of the City
Council or authorized by the City Council, on all warrants drawn on the City
Clerk, and on all acts on the part of the City Council or City officers duly
authorized by the City Council whereby the City is intended to be bound. (1977
Code § 2.04.020)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elections; Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Composition; Membership
1-6-3: Qualifications Of Mayor And Council
1-6-4: Salaries
1-6-5: Meetings; Place And Time
1-6-6: Notice Of Public Meetings
1-6-7: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-8: Powers And Duties
1-6-9: Ordinance Enactment And Passage
1-6-10: Special Committees
1-6-11: Contract For Work And Labor
1-6-12: Absence Of Mayor
1-6-1: ELECTIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE 1 :
On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of every odd numbered
year, a city election shall be held, at which the qualified electors of the
city shall elect the officers of the city whose term of office will expire,
with council members to be voted for who represent the city at large; the mayor
to hold office for a term of four (4) years, and until the qualification of
his/her successor; and each council member so elected to hold office for a term
of four (4) years, and until the qualification of his/her successor. (Ord. 369-
2016, 10-11-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 13-1-104.
1-6-2: COMPOSITION; MEMBERSHIP:
The city council shall be composed of the mayor and six (6) council members at
large of the city limits, who, upon receiving notice of their election, shall,
before entering upon their duties, severally, take and subscribe to an oath or
affirmation before some officer authorized to administer the same, which a copy
shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and the original sent to the
county clerk and recorder, that he/she will support the constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state, and will discharge the duties
required of him/her by law. The council shall, within three (3) weeks after a
vacancy occurs in the city council, fill that vacancy through the appropriate
appointment procedures as authorized by the laws of the state. (Ord. 369-2016,
10-11-2016)
1-6-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL:
   A.   Mayor: No person is eligible for the office of mayor unless he/she:
      1.   Is at least eighteen (18) years old;
      2.   A citizen of Montana and a qualified elector pursuant to article IV,
section 2 of the Montana constitution.
   B.   Council Member: No person is eligible for the office of council unless
he/she:
      1.   Is at least eighteen (18) years old;
      2.   A citizen of Montana and a qualified elector pursuant to article IV,
section 2 of the Montana constitution. (Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
1-6-4: SALARIES:
   A.   Mayor: The annual salary which shall be allowed and paid to the mayor
shall be set and paid annually by the city council. (1977 Code § 2.44.010)
   B.   Council Members: The city council members shall each be allowed and
paid the amount set annually by the council, per diem for each day of session
of the city council; provided, however, that no council member shall be paid
for more than two (2) days' service during any one month. (1977 Code §
2.44.020)
1-6-5: MEETINGS; PLACE AND TIME:
   A.   Council Meeting Place:
      1.   Meeting Place Designated: In the interest of economy, and for the
purpose of concentrating the business of the city, the city office at 206 Main
Street is hereby designated and established as the place for holding all
meetings of the city council, or at such other location as the council may
determine based on the city's needs by resolution.
   B.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The City Council shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday
of each month, and on the fourth Tuesday of each month as needed. Each regular
meeting shall be set via resolution of the City Council.
      2.   The city council may adjourn any regular meeting to any specified
time, and may adjourn any meeting from time to time, and such adjourned regular
meeting, for the purpose of the passage of any ordinance, or the transaction of
any business required by law or ordinance to be transacted at a regular meeting
of said council, shall be considered a regular meeting.
   C.   Special Meetings: The city council may hold special meetings at the
call of the mayor, and it shall be the duty of the mayor to call a special
meeting of the city council whenever in his/her judgment a special meeting
shall be necessary, or whenever the mayor shall be requested to do so by the
written request of three (3) council members. Such special meeting shall be
called by a written notice from the mayor, to be served upon each council
member by any such means.
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, except as provided in section 2-3-203, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord.
369-2016, 10-11-2016; Ord. 396-2022, 7-12-2022)
1-6-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGS:
   A.   Public notice will be provided on the windows of city hall located at
206 Main Street, Three Forks, Montana, on the public bulletin boards at three
(3) banks in Three Forks located at 120 South Montana Street, 320 South Main
Street, and 2 North Railway Avenue, on the city of Three Forks website, and in
a newspaper of general circulation if deemed necessary to ensure public
participation which has complied with section 7-1-4127, Montana Code Annotated.
(Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
1-6-7: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of council members elected in the city, with the
presiding officer, shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller
number when present may compel the attendance of the absent member(s) by
sending law enforcement to require their attendance. If any absent member shall
refuse or neglect to attend a session of the council when notified as herein
mentioned, the council may, by a majority vote, pass and adopt a resolution
prescribing such punishment as may seem just and reasonable, up to and
including removal from office as defined in section 2.08 of the city charter;
provided if said delinquent member at a succeeding meeting of the council
renders an excuse which shall be satisfactory to the council, he/she shall be
released from said fine.
   B.   Roll Call; Order Of Business: At the hour appointed for the meeting,
the council shall be called to order by the mayor, or in his absence by the
president of the council, or in the absence of both, by any council member
present. The roll of members elected shall first be called to determine if a
quorum is present. If the roll call shows a quorum not present, the clerk must
announce and the members present may adjourn to such time as the urgency of
business shall require or a majority may be had; but if the roll call shows a
quorum present the council may proceed with business. (Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-
2016)
1-6-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The council shall ensure the record of its proceedings are
open to the public; shall determine its own rules of action; shall protect
itself from indignities and interruptions from bystanders and spectators, and
it shall be unlawful for any person, not a member of the council, to
participate in its deliberations, or to address the council, except upon
special permission granted by the council. (Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
   B.   Passage Of Ordinances And Resolutions: The council shall have power to
pass all needful ordinances and resolutions for the promotion of the public
interest and good government of the city, and from time to time adopt such
rules and bylaws for its own regulation and procedure as may be deemed
necessary. (1977 Code § 2.16.040; amd. Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
1-6-9: ORDINANCE ENACTMENT AND PASSAGE:
   A.   Proposed Ordinance Presentation: Ordinance proposals and amendments to
existing ordinances typically start at the ordinance committee level, but may
be presented to the city council by any city staff member or member of the
general public. At the ordinance committee level discussion takes place on how
to word the proposed ordinance or amendment to existing ordinance. Every
proposed ordinance shall be read in its entirety to the city council at the
publicly noticed meeting it is scheduled for. The ordinance committee may take
the first reading of the ordinance back to further consider, revise and/or make
recommendation.
   B.   Ordinance Committee Recommendations: Every proposed ordinance referred
to the ordinance committee may be reported back to the city council at the next
regular meeting of said council with such recommendation of passage and
approval, or changes to be made as may seem right and proper, just and
equitable. The recommendations of the ordinance committee shall be presented in
the revised ordinance.
   C.   Council Actions On Recommendations: The council shall consider the
recommendations of the ordinance committee, on any ordinance referred to it,
and pass any ordinance, or adopt and approve the changes as may be recommended,
or refer it back to the ordinance committee as may be required, and when
returned to the council by the ordinance committee, and before placed upon its
final passage, shall be read at length, then put upon its final passage.
   D.   Mayor; Veto Powers: Refer to section 7-5-4205, Montana Code Annotated.
      1.   Ordinance Appropriating Money: Any ordinance appropriating money
shall be subject to the veto of the mayor, and the mayor may veto any one item
or several items in such ordinance, and if such item or items be not passed
over his veto, such item or items shall be stricken out and shall not be paid
by the city treasurer. (1977 Code § 2.16.100)
   E.   Repeal Of Ordinance: Whenever any ordinance, or part of an ordinance,
shall be repealed or modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part
of an ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in force until the
repealing ordinance shall go into effect, or until such time as may be
specially designated in said repealing ordinance. (1977 Code § 1.04.060)
   F.   Style Of Ordinance: The style of the ordinances of the city shall be
"Be it Ordained by the Three Forks City Council"; and all ordinances shall be
signed by the mayor, president of the council or the presiding officer
thereof,and attested by the city clerk with the seal of incorporation of the
city affixed thereon, and shall be posted, unless the council shall direct said
ordinances to be published once in a newspaper designated by the city. (Ord.
369-2016, 10-11-2016; amd. Ord. 383-2019; 9-10-2019)
1-6-10: SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
The mayor shall designate and appoint such standing and special committees as
may be from time to time provided by the rules and orders of the council, as
provided in section 3.08 of the city charter. (Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
1-6-11: CONTRACT FOR WORK AND LABOR:
All contracts for work and labor, or for supplies, or materials, shall be
authorized and approved in compliance with state law. (1977 Code § 2.16.090;
amd. Ord. 369-2016, 10-11-2016)
1-6-12: ABSENCE OF MAYOR:
In the absence of the mayor, the president of the city council, or in his
absence the vice president of the council, if there shall be such an officer,
shall perform all the duties and functions of the mayor as may be required by
the ordinances of the city, and part 4, title 3 of the political code of the
state of Montana. (1977 Code § 2.16.120)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointments By Mayor
1-7-2: Salaries
1-7-3: City Judge
1-7-1: APPOINTMENTS BY MAYOR:
   A.   City Clerk 1 ; Police Officers: The mayor shall nominate and, by and
with the consent of the council, appoint one city clerk, and one or more police
officers. (1977 Code § 2.02.010; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
   B.   City Judge:
      1.   Appointment: The mayor shall appoint a city judge. (1977 Code §
2.02.020; amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   Maintain Courtroom: Said city judge must keep and maintain at all
times during his term of office, at a certain place, and within the limits of
the city, a courtroom, which shall be open at times designated by the judge.
The criminal jurisdiction of said judge shall be as provided by the Montana
statutes governing city courts. (1977 Code § 2.02.030; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Street Superintendent: Annually the mayor shall appoint the street
superintendent of the city. (1977 Code § 2.32.010; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article A of this chapter.
1-7-2: SALARIES:
The salaries of the appointed city officials shall be reviewed and set annually
by the city council. (2000 Code)
1-7-3: CITY JUDGE:
The city judge shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, take the
oath required by law and file the same with the city clerk, for the faithful
performance of the duties of the office as required by law and the ordinances
of the city, and that the city judge will pay over all monies which shall come
into the city court's hands to the person entitled to receive the same, and at
the expiration of the city judge's term of office to surrender to and deposit
with the city judge's successor in office all records and files of the office
of the city judge. (Ord. 350-15, 2-24-2015)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Combining Offices
1-7A-2: Bond Required
1-7A-3: Discharge Duties Of City Clerk
1-7A-4: Collection Of Special Assessments
1-7A-5: Payment Of Special Improvement Assessments
1-7A-6: Delinquent Tax
1-7A-1: COMBINING OFFICES:
The offices of city clerk and/or city treasurer may be combined and one person
may hold both offices, at the discretion of the mayor, subject to the approval
and consent of the council. (1977 Code § 2.42.010)
1-7A-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Bonds shall be posted for the position as required by the city council, and
shall be paid for by the city. (1977 Code § 2.42.030)
1-7A-3: DISCHARGE DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
   A.   Authorization: The city clerk is hereby empowered, authorized and
required to discharge all of the duties and exercise all of the powers and
authority of the city clerk. In absence of the city clerk or at the direction
of the city clerk, the deputy city clerk shall perform the enumerated duties.
   B.   Duties Enumerated:
      1.   To attend all meetings of the council, to record and sign the
proceedings thereof and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions and contracts
passed, adopted or entered into, and to sign, number and keep a record of all
licenses, commissions or permits granted or authorized by the council.
      2.   To enter in a book all ordinances, resolutions and bylaws passed and
adopted by the council. Such book is called "the ordinance book".
      3.   To enter in a book kept for that purpose the date, amount and person
in whose favor and for what purpose warrants are drawn. Such book is called
"the finance book".
      4.   To countersign and cause to be published or posted as provided by
law, all ordinances, bylaws or resolutions passed and adopted by the council.
      5.   To make and certify copies of all records, books and papers in his/
her possession, on the payment of like fees as are allowed county clerks; which
fees must be paid into the city treasury.
      6.   To file and keep all records, books, papers or property belonging to
the city, and to deliver the same to his/her successor when qualified.
      7.   To give notice of all elections as required by law, and to notify
all persons of their election or appointment to office.
      8.   To make and keep a complete index of the journal, ordinance book,
finance book, and all other books and papers on file in his/her office.
      9.   To perform such duties in and about the assessment, levy and
collection of taxes and assessments as may be prescribed by law or ordinances.
      10.   To take and administer oaths, but must not charge or receive any
fees therefor.
      11.   To perform such other and further duties as the council and/or
mayor may prescribe, which then might be performed or exercised by the city
clerk.
   C.   Signing Of Warrants And Other Documents: The city clerk shall be
required to sign any warrant, contract or other document or paper of any kind,
or to attest the minutes of the city council. In absence of the city clerk, the
deputy clerk is hereby authorized and required to attach thereto the official
signature as ex officio city clerk. (Ord. 351-15, 2-24-2015)
1-7A-4: COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   City Treasurer: The city treasurer may collect special assessments,
when: any city whose taxes for general, municipal and administrative purposes
are certified to and collected by the county treasurer, in accordance with the
provisions of sections 7-6-4407 and 7-6-4423, Montana Code Annotated, may,
nevertheless, provide by ordinance for the collection by its city or treasurer
of all special assessments and taxes levied and assessed in accordance with any
of the provisions of this act in the same manner and at the same time as said
taxes for general, municipal and administrative purposes are collected by the
county treasurer and all of the provisions of section 7-6-4423, Montana Code
Annotated shall apply to the collection of such special taxes and assessments
in the same manner as such provisions apply to the collection of other city
taxes. When the payment of any one installment of any special assessment
becomes delinquent, all payments of subsequent installments shall, at the
option of the city council, by appropriate resolution, duly adopted, become
delinquent, and such delinquent special assessments shall be certified to the
county clerk of the county in which such city is situated, and the county
treasurer must collect such delinquent special assessments and taxes in the
same manner and at the same time as said taxes for general, municipal and
administrative purposes are collected by him/her and in case the same are not
paid, the whole property shall be sold, the same as other property is sold for
taxes.
   B.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall collect all special assessments and
taxes levied and assessed by the city in accordance with any of the provisions,
by state law, in the same manner and at the same time as taxes for general,
municipal and administrative purposes are collected by the county treasurer.
(Ord. 351-15, 2-24-2015)
1-7A-5: PAYMENT OF SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENTS:
Special assessments, or installments of special assessments, made for special
improvements in cities, duly and regularly made and levied by resolution,
according to law, shall be payable on or before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
November 30 and May 31 of each year, and in the event the same are not paid on
or before said date, the same shall be subject to the same interest and penalty
for nonpayment as are or may hereafter be provided by the laws of the state for
other delinquent taxes. (Ord. 351-15, 2-24-2015)
1-7A-6: DELINQUENT TAX:
   A.   Delinquent Tax Or Assessment: Whenever, in a city whose treasurer
collects its own taxes or special assessments, or both thereof, any such taxes
or assessments shall become delinquent, no tax sale shall be held by such city
treasurer therefore, but such city treasurer must, within ten (10) days after
the date the same become delinquent, certify all such delinquent taxes and
assessments to the county treasurer of the county in which the city is
situated. Such certificate shall contain the description of each lot or parcel
of land on which any tax or assessment has become delinquent, the name and
address of the person to whom assessed, the date when the same became
delinquent, the amount of the delinquent tax or assessment, the penalty to be
added thereto, and the total amount of such delinquent tax or assessment with
penalty added.
   B.   Installments: If any special assessment is payable in installments and
any installment thereof becomes delinquent, the amount of such delinquent
installment shall be included in such certificate; provided, however, that if
the city council, by the adoption of an appropriate resolution, shall declare
the whole of the assessment remaining unpaid to be delinquent, as provided in
section 7-12-4181 (7-12-4183), Montana Code Annotated, then the whole of the
assessment remaining unpaid shall be included in such certificate. (Ord. 351-
15, 2-24-2015)
ARTICLE B. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Created; Term; Duties
1-7B-2: Salary Or Retainer Fee
1-7B-1: OFFICE CREATED; TERM; DUTIES:
   A.   Creation; Term: There is hereby created in and for the city, the office
of city attorney whose term of office shall be for the period of two (2) years
running from July 1 to June 30 to coincide with the city's annual budget, and
until his/her successor shall be duly appointed and qualified. (Ord. 335-13, 9-
10-2013)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the city attorney:
      1.   Attend Court; Prosecutions For The City: To attend before the city
court and other courts, and prosecute on behalf of the city, and to attend all
suits, matters and things in which the city may be legally interested. In no
case must the city attorney defend or act as an attorney for the defendant in a
criminal action or proceeding.
      2.   Render Advice: To give his/her advice or opinion in writing when
required by the mayor or council, and to do all such things touching his/her
office as the council may require, or any ordinance may prescribe.
      3.   Draw Contracts: To draw for the use of the council and/or mayor any
contract, resolution or ordinance.
      4.   City Attorney: The city attorney is hereby empowered, authorized and
required to discharge all of the duties and exercise all of the powers and
authority of the city clerk whenever said clerk is absent from the city, and
whenever said clerk is unable or unwilling to discharge the duties of his/her
office.
      5.   Other Duties: To perform such other and further duties as the
council and/or mayor may prescribe. (Ord. 352-15, 2-24-2015)
   C.   Employ Additional Attorneys: The council may employ other or additional
attorneys or counsel in special cases, and provide for the payment for their
services. (1977 Code § 2.20.010; amd. 2000 Code)
1-7B-2: SALARY OR RETAINER FEE:
The salary or retainer fee of the herein named officer shall be reviewed and
set annually by the city council. (1977 Code § 2.20.020)
   1-7C ()CHAPTER 7
   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE C. CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment; Term
1-7C-2: Qualifications; Oath
1-7C-3: Compensation
1-7C-4: Duties
1-7C-5: Deliver Books And Property To Successor
1-7C-6: Interfering With Work Of Engineer
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The City Council may create the office of City Engineer, or may contract for
engineering services in and for the City. The office of City Engineer shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council, and shall hold his
office until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1977 Code § 2.26.010;
amd. 2000 Code)
1-7C-2: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH:
The person appointed to the office of City Engineer shall be a suitable and
competent person and shall possess a practical knowledge of surveying and civil
engineering. He shall, in addition to the oath prescribed for City officers,
take an oath that he is not and will not, during his continuance in office,
either directly or indirectly, be interested in any contract with the City for
any work or material furnished. (1977 Code § 2.26.020)
1-7C-3: COMPENSATION:
The City Engineer shall receive for performing such duties as may be required
of him, such fair and reasonable compensation as may be agreed upon between the
City Council and himself from time to time. (1977 Code § 2.26.080)
1-7C-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Engineering And Surveying:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to do and perform within
the City all engineering and surveying; to locate and establish the lines and
grades of all streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, gutters, sewers, waterworks,
or other public works or appurtenances, under the order of the City Council and
subject to its approval; to prepare and preserve, in his office, plans, maps or
profiles of the same, and keep them subject to inspection at all reasonable
times; to make estimates and furnish specifications for any of said work
whenever required to do so by the City Council; to inspect the work of grading
streets, construction of gutters and sewers, and of laying down sidewalks. He
shall have the general supervision of all contract or other work and see that
it is performed in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with the authorized
plans, and in conformity with the terms of the contract and specifications when
directed by the City Council, and perform such other duties as may, from time
to time, be prescribed by ordinance, resolution or order of the City Council.
(1977 Code § 2.26.040)
      2.   All surveys, notes of surveys, field notes, maps or profiles, plans
and estimates made by him or others in his employ for the City shall be the
property of the City, and shall be carefully preserved in his office and open
to the inspection of all persons interested. He shall also make a certified
copy of all surveys, notes of surveys, field notes, maps or profiles, plans and
estimates and file the same in the office of the City Clerk. (1977 Code §
2.26.050)
   B.   Suggestion Of Materials: The City Engineer shall inform and suggest to
the City Council the kind and quality of material to be used in all public
works, the necessary means to ensure permanent stability of the work, and at
all times aid the City Council with his professional knowledge and skill. (1977
Code § 2.26.060)
   C.   Prepare And Certify Assessment Lists: He shall prepare and certify to
the City Council all assessment lists for improvements which are chargeable to
the abutting property, and shall, at the end of each fiscal year, make an
annual report to the City Council of the work of his office, showing extent and
cost of all work and improvements done by him, or over which he has had
supervision. (1977 Code § 2.26.070)
1-7C-5: DELIVER BOOKS AND PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
The City Engineer shall, at the expiration of his term of office, turn over and
deliver to his successor in office, all books, papers, profiles, maps,
estimates and other property of any kind whatsoever in his hands, or belonging
to the City, taking therefor duplicate receipts, in which receipts all books,
papers, plans, maps, profiles and estimates and other property shall be
specifically numbered, one of which receipts shall be transmitted to the City
Council within five (5) days after the expiration of his term of office. (1977
Code § 2.26.090)
1-7C-6: INTERFERING WITH WORK OF ENGINEER:
If any person shall interrupt or molest the City Engineer while engaged in his
official duty, by driving a vehicle of any kind against the person or surveying
instruments or other professional apparatus of said City Engineer or any of his
assistants, or by wilfully moving or displacing any stake or other landmark
fixed or determined by him or his assistants, or by wilfully causing or
offering them any kind of bodily injury or hindrance, such person so offending
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 2.26.100; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Registration Of Electors
1-8-1: REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS:
   A.   Requirement: The city council wholly provides by this subsection for
the registration of electors in the city, and may prohibit any person from
voting at any election unless he has been registered, but such subsection must
not be in conflict with the general law providing for the registration of
electors, and must not change the qualifications of electors except as allowed
by the state. However, when an area is annexed by the city after the date for
registration has expired, opportunity must be provided for residents of such
area to register, if otherwise qualified, for all future elections. (1977 Code
§ 1.12.020)
   B.   Compliance With State Law: Registration shall be governed by state law.
(1977 Code § 2.50.010)
CHAPTER 9
AMBULANCE SERVICE DISTRICT
Repealed by Ord. 398-20222.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING AND PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED 1 :
The City Council hereby creates a City Zoning and Planning Board. (1977 Code §
2.48.010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  11-2-2 of this Code, definition of Zoning Commission.
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
Improvement District And Sewer Warrants   1
Revenue And Expenditure Funds   2
Water Funds   3
Sewer Maintenance Fund   4
Special Improvement District Revolving Fund   5
Impact Fees For Public Facilities   6
CHAPTER 1
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AND SEWER WARRANTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Levy Of Assessment And Tax
3-1-2: Improvement Of Sewer District
3-1-3: Improvement District Or Sewer Warrant
3-1-4: Book Of Records
3-1-5: Cancel And Delivery Of Warrants
3-1-6: Form And Issuance Of Warrants
3-1-1: LEVY OF ASSESSMENT AND TAX:
It shall be the duty of the City Council to annually levy an assessment and tax
for the payment of the principal and interest of all special improvement
district and sewer warrants, which may be issued by order of the City Council
on and after the passage and approval of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 3.04.010)
3-1-2: IMPROVEMENT OF SEWER DISTRICT:
   A.   Establish Account: Whenever a special improvement or sewer district is
created by the City for the purpose of constructing sewers, improving the
streets, alleys and highways of said district, or opening, changing or altering
any streets, alleys and highways within the limits of said district, it shall
be the duty of the City Clerk to open an account against the said improvement
or sewer district so created, and said account shall be kept in a book provided
for the purpose. In such account, the Clerk shall charge all cost and expense
connected therewith, as prescribed in the resolution and ordinance creating
said district; and the City Clerk shall issue, by direction of the City
Council, special improvement district or sewer warrants of the kind and
character described in the ordinances relating to the form thereof, and
charging such account with said warrants, and the book of records shall state
the date of such improvement district or sewer warrants, to whom issued and the
amount thereof, to the end that the cost of and the purposes for which said
improvement or sewer district is created, shall be at all times a matter of
public record.
   B.   Warrants Redeemed: When such warrants shall have been redeemed and paid
by the City Treasurer, as hereinafter provided, the respective accounts of said
special improvement and sewer districts shall be properly credited with
warrants so redeemed. (1977 Code § 3.04.020)
3-1-3: IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT OR SEWER WARRANT:
   A.   Presentation For Payment: Whenever a special improvement district or
sewer warrant shall have been issued by the City, and said warrant shall bear
upon its face the regularity of issuance, as prescribed in this Chapter
relating thereto, it shall be presented to the City Clerk for payment.
   B.   No Funds; Register Warrant: If there are no funds to the credit of the
said special improvement district fund sufficient to pay said warrant, it shall
be the duty of the City Clerk to register said special improvement or sewer
warrant in a book to be provided for the purpose, and said registry shall set
forth the number of the special improvement or sewer district, the date of
registration of said warrant and the amount of such warrant, the person to whom
said warrant is issued, and the City Clerk shall endorse upon the face of said
warrant the date of registration of said warrant and shall affix his signature
thereto. (1977 Code § 3.04.030)
3-1-4: BOOK OF RECORDS:
   A.   Preparation Of Book: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to prepare
a book of records which shall be known as the "Register of Special Improvement
District and Sewer Warrants", and whenever a special improvement or sewer
district is created and designated by proper number, it shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to open in said book of registration, an account with each
special improvement or sewer district, giving such account its proper number
and he shall enter in said book of registration a proper record of all special
improvement district or sewer warrants presented to him for registration or
payment, issued under their respective districts, as in the manner provided in
subsection
3-1-2A of this Chapter.
   B.   Credit Accounts: It is further prescribed as the duty of the City Clerk
to credit each special improvement and sewer district account from time to time
as the same is paid with all taxes and assessments which may be collected by
him on account of special taxes or assessments levied against the respective
special improvement and sewer districts, and he shall apply the fund so
collected in the following manner:
      1.   First: From the monies collected on account of any special
improvement or sewer district, in each year, he shall provide for the payments
of interest on or before January 1, in each year, to that date on any and all
outstanding warrants of each respective special improvement and sewer district,
whereon interest has not ceased, by reason of said warrants being called for
payment, and shall endorse said payment of interest on the reverse side of each
warrant with the interest so paid, or by taking up and cancelling the interest
coupons representing such interest if any such coupons be attached to said
warrants. The first payment of interest shall be computed for the period from
date of registration of each of said warrants to January 1 next succeeding such
date of registration and annually thereafter.
      2.   Second: Out of the remainder of any funds to the credit of such
respective improvement or sewer districts, the City Clerk shall then call in
and pay warrants to the amount of such monies on hand available for the
purpose, so far as such funds will pay and retire the amount that may be due,
with accrued interest, to date of call for redemption and payment, fixing by
notice the date whereon the interest shall cease upon such warrant and it shall
be the duty of the City Clerk to note upon such register the date of call and
to notify the holders of said warrants by letter, if known, or by publication
in a paper of general circulation published in the City, the call for the
redemption of said warrants and the date when interest on said warrants shall
cease. (1977 Code § 3.04.040)
3-1-5: CANCEL AND DELIVERY OF WARRANTS:
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, at any time after the redemption and
payment of any special improvement or sewer district warrants, as hereinafter
mentioned, to cancel and deliver the same to the City Clerk and take his
receipt therefor, to the end that such warrants when paid and cancelled shall
be properly filed in the office of the City Clerk. (1977 Code § 3.04.050)
3-1-6: FORM AND ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS:
   A.   Form: All special improvement or sewer district warrants from and after
November 27, 1911, and the passage of this Chapter, shall be in form and
language, substantially as follows:
   Special Improvement Or Sewer District Warrants
No.      Amount $             District No.     
   Three Forks, Montana,
                             20**
The City of Three Forks, Montana, will pay to the order of
                        the sum of                Dollars, ($        ), as
authorized by Resolution No.          creating Special Improvement or Sewer
District No.       as therein described, passed provisionally on the        and
finally passed and approved on the                , laws, resolutions and
ordinances relating thereto in payment of the contract in accordance therewith.
This Warrant bears interest at the rate of      per cent annum from the date of
registration of this warrant, as expressed herein, until the date called for
redemption by the City Clerk. The interest on this warrant is payable annually
on the        day of                  in each year unless otherwise paid
previous thereto, and as expressed in the interest coupons hereto attached.
This Warrant is payable from the collection of a special tax or assessment
which is a lien against the real estate within said district, as described in
said resolution hereinbefore referred to.
This warrant is redeemable at the option of the City at any time there are
funds to the credit of said Improvement District Fund, for the redemption
thereof, and in the manner provided for the redemption of the same.
It is hereby certified and recited that all acts and things required to be done
precedent to the issuance of this warrant, have been done, happened and been
performed in the manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Montana, the
resolutions and ordinances of the City of Three Forks, State of Montana,
relating to the issuance thereof.
   City of Three Forks, Montana,
   By                               
Attest:
   City Clerk
Registered in the office of the Clerk of the City of Three Forks, State of
Montana, this           day of                 20**
City Clerk
   Form Of Warrant Interest Coupon
   Three Forks, Montana,
                              20**
$                   
 
   On                20** the City Clerk of the City of Three Forks, Montana,
will at his office in Three Forks, Montana, pay to the bearer, the sum of $
             Dollars, being the interest due on said date of payment on its
Special Improvement or Sewer District Warrant No.       issued on account of
Special Improvement or Sewer District No.      .
 
         Mayor                          
         Clerk                           
 
   (1977 Code § 3.12.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Warrants Signed By Mayor: All special improvement or sewer district
warrants shall be signed by the designated officer and the Seal of the City
shall be affixed to each warrant. All interest coupons shall be signed by the
Mayor and City Clerk, or shall bear the printed facsimile signature of the
Mayor and City Clerk thereon. (1977 Code § 3.12.020)
   C.   Warrants In Denomination: Special improvement or sewer district
warrants may be in the denomination of one hundred dollars ($100.00), or
multiple or fractional parts thereof, as the purposes for which said warrants
are issued may require. (1977 Code § 3.12.030)
   D.   Numbering Warrants And Interest Coupons: All special improvement or
sewer district warrants, together with the interest coupons attached, for the
respective districts against which the same are issued, shall be numbered
consecutively beginning with No. 1 for each district and designated on the face
of the warrant the respective district to which such warrants are applicable,
and all warrants in call for payment shall be redeemed in the order of their
registration. (1977 Code § 3.12.040)
CHAPTER 2
REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FUNDS
SECTION:
3-2-1: General Fund Created
3-2-2: Taxes Collected
3-2-3: Expenses Paid From Various Funds
3-2-1: GENERAL FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created a general fund, in and for the city, for the budgeting
and expenditures of monies for the city. (1977 Code § 3.30.010; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-2: TAXES COLLECTED:
All taxes collected for city and administrative purposes shall be paid into the
general fund. All monies received from the collection of licenses required by
title 4, chapter 1 of this code, and any amendment thereto, or any ordinance
hereafter enacted by the city council requiring a license to be paid by any
business, occupation and profession or any amendment thereto, and all monies
received from fines imposed for a violation of any ordinance of the city not
otherwise provided for, shall be paid into the general fund. (1977 Code §
3.30.020; amd. 2000 Code)
3-2-3: EXPENSES PAID FROM VARIOUS FUNDS:
   A.   General Fund: All monies in the general fund shall be paid out to
defray expenses incurred for general city or administrative purposes.
   B.   Street And Alley Fund: All monies in the street and alley fund shall be
paid out to defray expenses incurred in maintaining, improving and repairing
the streets and alleys in the city, except where the same may be provided for
by reason of the creation of special improvement districts. (1977 Code §
3.30.030; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Three Forks Police Department Fund: All monies in the Three Forks
police department fund shall be paid out to defray the expenses incurred in the
enforcement of the ordinances of the city and the exercise of police powers.
(1977 Code § 3.30.030; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 3
WATER FUNDS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Water Interest Fund
3-3-2: Water Fund
3-3-3: Water Sinking And Interest Fund
3-3-1: WATER INTEREST FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There be hereby created a fund to be known as the Water
Interest Fund. (1977 Code § 3.34.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Revenues Paid Into Fund: There shall be paid into said Fund during each
year a sufficient amount of the revenues derived from the City water to pay the
interest as it becomes due on the outstanding water bonds. (1977 Code §
3.34.020; amd. 2000 Code)
3-3-2: WATER FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There be hereby created a fund to be known as the Water
Fund. (1977 Code § 3.34.030; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Excess Monies Transferred: From and after the passage and approval of
this Chapter, annually, at the close of the City's fiscal year, all monies
remaining in the Water Fund, after the payment of maintenance and operating
expenses, and after deducting the interest on all City water bonds not
including improvement district bonds, which shall become due on or before July
1 following, shall be transferred to the Water Sinking and Interest Fund. (1977
Code § 3.34.040; amd. 2000 Code)
3-3-3: WATER SINKING AND INTEREST FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There be hereby created a fund to be known as the Water
Sinking and Interest Fund. (1977 Code § 3.34.050; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Revenues In Excess: There shall be paid into said Fund all revenues
derived from the City water in excess of the amount necessary to pay operating
and maintenance expenses and interest as it becomes due on the outstanding
Water Sinking and Interest Fund for the purpose of paying the water bonds as
they mature. (1977 Code § 3.34.060; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND
SECTION:
3-4-1: Fund Created
3-4-2: Collections Paid Into Fund
3-4-3: Disposition Of Monies
3-4-1: FUND CREATED:
The City Council hereby creates a fund to be known as the Sewer Maintenance
Fund. (1977 Code § 3.36.010)
3-4-2: COLLECTIONS PAID INTO FUND:
There shall be paid into said Fund all monies collected by the City Clerk/
Treasurer under Title 9, Chapter 5 of this Code, relating to the regulation of
sewer connections. (1977 Code § 3.36.020; amd. 2000 Code)
3-4-3: DISPOSITION OF MONIES:
All monies in the Sewer Maintenance Fund shall be used to defray the expenses
of inspection of connections, pumping, cleaning, and other expenses necessary
to the maintenance of the City sewer system. (1977 Code § 3.36.030)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT REVOLVING FUND
SECTION:
3-5-1: Fund Created
3-5-2: Warrant Issuance; Insurance
3-5-1: FUND CREATED:
   A.   Statute Authority: There is hereby created and established in the City
a Special Improvement District Revolving Fund as authorized by section 7-12-
4221, Montana Code Annotated, to be maintained for any special improvement
district or districts heretofore or hereafter created for any purpose in order
to secure prompt payment of any special improvement district bonds or warrants,
heretofore or hereafter issued to defray the cost of improvements made therein,
and the interest thereon as it becomes due.
   B.   Transfer Monies: For the purpose of providing funds for such Revolving
Fund, the City Council may in its discretion transfer to the Revolving Fund
from the General Fund of the City such amounts as may be deemed necessary,
which amounts so transferred shall be deemed and considered, and shall be loans
from such General Fund to the Revolving Fund; and shall, in addition to such
transfers from the General Fund, or in lieu thereof, levy and collect for such
Revolving Fund such a tax, hereby declared to be for a public purpose on all
the taxable property in the City as shall be necessary to meet the financial
requirements of such Fund. Such levy, together with such transfer, shall not
exceed in any one year five percent (5%) of the principal amount of the then
outstanding special improvement district bonds and warrants.
   C.   Revolving Fund Loans To District Fund: Whenever any special improvement
district bond or warrant, or any interest thereon, shall hereafter become due
and payable, and there shall then be either no money or insufficient money in
the appropriate district fund with which to pay the same, an amount sufficient
to make up the deficiency may, by order of the City Council, be loaned by the
revolving fund to such District Fund, and thereupon such bond or warrant or
such interest thereon shall be paid from the money so loaned or from the money
so loaned when added to such insufficient amount, as the case may require.
(1977 Code § 3.52.010; amd. 2000 Code)
3-5-2: WARRANT ISSUANCE; INSURANCE:
In connection with the issuance of the special improvement district warrants to
be issued to defray the cost of the improvements in the special improvement
district hereinbefore specifically referred to, the Council hereby undertakes
and agrees to issue orders annually authorizing loans or advances from the
Revolving Fund to the District Fund of said district in amounts sufficient to
make good any deficiency in the principal and interest accounts thereof to the
extent that funds are available, and hereby further undertakes and agrees to
provide funds for such Revolving Fund pursuant to the provisions of sections 7-
12-4222 and 7-12-4223, Montana Code Annotated, by annually making such tax levy
(or, in lieu thereof, such loan from the General Fund) as the City Council
shall determine to be required to provide funds sufficient for the purposes
herein expressed, subject to the maximum limitations imposed by said section 7-
12-4222, Montana Code Annotated. The undertakings and agreements provided for
herein are made pursuant to the provisions of sections 7-12-4223 and 7-12-4224,
Montana Code Annotated. (1977 Code § 3.52.020; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 6
IMPACT FEES FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Applicability
3-6-4: Collection
3-6-5: Limits On Expenditure
3-6-6: Adoption/Revision
3-6-7: Impact Fee Advisory Committee (IFAC)
3-6-8: Accounting
3-6-9: Credits
3-6-10: Unused Impact Fees
3-6-11: Appeals
3-6-12: Savings Clause
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
As authorized by §7-6-1601, et seq, MCA, this chapter provides for the adoption
and administration of impact fees that will help the city pay for the new and
improved public facilities needed to support its growth. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-
2025)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
              A self-contained living unit on the same parcel as a single-family dwelling of
ACCESSORY     greater square footage that includes its own cooking, sleeping, and sanitation
DWELLING      facilities and complies with or is otherwise exempt from any applicable building
UNIT:         code, fire code, and public health and safety regulations adopted pursuant to
              title 50, chapter 2, MCA. For further definition, please see 76-2-345, MCA.
              A geographically bounded portion of the City of Three Forks in which development
BENEFIT AREA: is served by a particular improvement or set of improvements listed in the CIP
              that does not serve other parts of the city. Impact fees will be different in
              different benefit areas.
              Usually shortened to 'improvement' in this chapter, means improvements, land,
CAPITAL       and equipment with a useful life of ten (10) years or more that increase or
IMPROVEMENT:  improve the service capacity of a public facility. The term does not include
              consumable supplies.
CAPITAL       A public document adopted by the city council that evaluates the capacity of the
IMPROVEMENTS  city's public facilities and quantifies the present and anticipated demand for
PLAN (CIP):   those facilities. The CIP compares capacity and demand to identify the need for
              additional or improved facilities and estimates their cost.
              The purposes of section 3-6-3(D) of the Three Forks city code occurs when an
              additional dwelling unit is added to an existing building, or when an existing
              residential building is converted to commercial use, or an existing commercial
              building is converted to residential, or when an existing building, structure,
CHANGE OF     or use is changed to a more intense commercial or residential use. For this
USE:          definition, intensity will be measured by:
              A.   A change in water meter size, if a larger water meter will be installed, it
              is a change in use, or
              B.   Parking. If additional parking spaces must be provided to comply with title
              11, chapter 24 of this code it is a change in use.
COMMERCIAL:   All nonresidential uses.
              Development of land, divisions that create new lots or rights- of-way; grading,
              including clearing, excavation, and fill; the construction, reconstruction,
DEVELOPMENT:  enlargement or relocation of any building or structure; and/or any change in the
              use of a site, building, or structure. Please see title 11, chapter 4 for more
              detail.
              For the purposes of section 3-6-4(D), a building or structure when its area
ENLARGED:     increases by more than fifty percent (50%) or one thousand (1,000) SF, whichever
              is less.
              Consistent with 7-6-1601(5), MCA, a one (1) time charge that helps cover the
IMPACT FEE:   cost of capital improvements needed to serve the development from which the fee
              is collected.
IMPACT FEE    Required by 7-6-1604, MCA. Its purpose is to provide citizen review of the CIP
ADVISORY      and the preparation of service area reports. Based on its reviews, the IFAC
COMMITTEE     makes recommendations to the council.
(IFAC):
              Listed by 7-6-1601(7), MCA, including a water supply production, treatment,
              storage, or distribution facility; a wastewater collection, treatment, or
              disposal facility; a transportation facility, including roads, streets, bridges,
              rights-of-way, traffic signals, and landscaping; a storm water collection,
PUBLIC        retention, detention, treatment, or disposal facility or a flood control
FACILITIES:   facility; a police, emergency medical rescue, or fire protection facility; and
              other facilities for which documentation is prepared as provided in 7-6-1602,
              MCA, that have been approved as part of an impact fee ordinance or resolution by
              a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the governing body of an incorporated city, town,
              or consolidated local government.
SERVICE AREA  Required by 7-6-1602, MCA, which specifies the contents. Service area reports
REPORTS:      are public documents that build on the capital improvements plan to calculate
              trial impact fees for review by the IFAC and action by the council.
STANDARDS FOR Referred to in section 3-6-9(D), is the current version of a detailed set of
DESIGN AND    engineering standards adopted by the city.
CONSTRUCTION:
THIS CODE:    The Three Forks city code.
 
Additional definitions set forth in 7-6-1601, MCA, are included herein as if
fully set forth. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Any new or enlargement of principal building, structure, or use, or any
new dwelling unit that is added to an existing building or structure, change in
use for which a zoning permit is required by title 11 of this code must pay the
applicable impact fees adopted in the impact fee resolution that is authorized
by section 3-6-6.
   B.   Accessory buildings, structures, or uses for which a zoning permit is
required by title 11, chapter 4 of this code and that will be connected to city
utilities must pay the applicable impact fees adopted in the impact fee
resolution that is authorized by section 3-6-6.
   C.   Temporary buildings, structures, and uses do not pay impact fees.
   D.   The determination of impact fees for commercial development of up to
four thousand (4,000) square feet (SF) in building area will be made using the
per SF fees calculated in the service area reports. The impact fees for larger
commercial buildings or structures will be determined as provided in E-G,
below.
   E.   The per square foot water and wastewater impact fees for larger
commercial buildings and structures shall be calculated by increasing the per
square foot water and wastewater impact fees in direct proportion to the flow
rate of the meter or meters serving the proposed building or structure. These
higher fees will be applied to the first four thousand (4,000) SF of the
commercial building or structure.
   F.   The impact fee for transportation for larger commercial buildings and
structures shall be the same as adopted in the service area report for the
first four thousand (4,000) SF of building area plus an additional fee for each
additional on-site parking space after the first sixteen (16). That fee will be
specified in the resolution adopting the impact fees.
   G.   The per square foot impact fees for fire protection and municipal
buildings for commercial development shall be as calculated in the service area
reports for the entire area of the building or structure.
   H.   Any applicant for annexation, zoning site plan or subdivision may
present a professionally prepared impact fee study that is consistent with §7-
6-1601, et seq, MCA, and this chapter, as an alternative to the calculations of
D-G, above. That alternative may be accepted by the city council upon a finding
that it more accurately reflects the demands the proposed development will
place on public facilities. Such alternative studies must be reviewed by the
IFAC prior to their consideration by the city council. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-
2025)
3-6-4: COLLECTION:
Impact fees will be collected or credited as provided by section 3-6-9 before
the approval of a zoning permit, site plan or conditional use permit to develop
is finalized. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-5: LIMITS ON EXPENDITURE:
Impact fees may be applied only to the design and construction of capital
improvements listed in the capital improvements plan and the service area
reports. No other use of these fees is permitted. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-6: ADOPTION/REVISION:
   A.   Impact fees may be adopted or revised by a resolution by the council
following a recommendation from the IFAC and a public hearing for which notice
is provided as required by state law.
   B.   Revisions to the resolution adopting or revising impact fees may be
made as often as needed to reflect changes in the CIP, including the completion
of improvements, and the recommendations of the IFAC. IFAC recommendations must
include an updated service area report. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-7: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE (IFAC):
Pursuant to §7-6-1604, MCA, an IFAC shall be established by the council. The
IFAC's purpose shall be to provide annual citizen review of the CIP, the
service area reports, the impact fees and their administration, then based on
its reviews, make recommendations to the council. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-8: ACCOUNTING:
The city treasurer shall create a separate, interest-bearing fund for each
adopted impact fee, including separate funds for each benefit area. As provided
by section 3-6-5 of this code, these funds may be used only for the design and
construction of capital improvements that are listed in the capital
improvements plan and the applicable service area report. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-
2025)
3-6-9: CREDITS:
   A.   The council may agree to have an applicant construct or install
facilities that the city would, otherwise, build or install using, at least in
part, impact fees.
   B.   Such an agreement will ordinarily be part of the improvements agreement
required for annexation or subdivision in title 11 of this code, but this
chapter does not prohibit a separate contract.
   C.   Where such an agreement is approved by the council, the applicant's
actual costs will be credited against the impact fees that would be owed as
applications for zoning permits are approved. If the actual costs of
construction or installation are expected to exceed the anticipated impact
fees, the agreement required by subsection A., above, will require that the
city pay the difference from specifically identified funds.
   D.   All work performed by an applicant pursuant to this section shall be in
full compliance with the regulations of title 11 of this code, including any
applicable conditions of approval and the improvements agreement as applicable,
and with the city's standards for design and construction, particularly
including the requirements of those standards for inspection, acceptance, and
warranty of the improvements made by the applicant. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-10: UNUSED IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Impact fees that are not collected or used as provided for in the CIP
and service area report shall be returned to the person who owned the property
at the time the fees were collected.
   B.   Impact fees will be retained for the life cycle of the improvement for
which they were assessed before a refund is made. For water and wastewater
impact fees, this will be forty (40) years. For all other improvements, the
cycle shall be calculated based upon current data. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-11: APPEALS:
   A.   As required by §7-6-1603(8), MCA, anyone who has paid an impact fee who
believes that charge was in error may file an appeal that will be heard before
the council.
   B.   The city council shall establish the appeal fee by resolution. An
applicant who chooses to appeal the assessment or calculation of impact fees,
determination of exemptions, credits, or other decision of city staff, shall
submit an appeal, and payment of a nonrefundable application fee, within thirty
(30) days following the date of decision or determination by city staff. The
application of appeal may stay the collection of the impact fee.
   C.   Appeals will be considered by the city council. The city council shall
consider the appeal in accordance with the rules and regulations of that
governing body. The decision of the city council shall, in all instances, be
the final administrative decision and shall be subject to judicial review in
accordance with applicable law.
   D.   The council may deny the appeal or, upon finding that the impact fee
being appealed was inapplicable or erroneously assessed, order a full or
partial payment, or no payment. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
3-6-12: SAVINGS CLAUSE:
If any provision of this chapter, the resolution adopting impact fees
authorized by section 3-6-6.A of this code or their application in particular
circumstances are found to be invalid by a court, the remainder of this chapter
or the impact fee resolution and their application in all other circumstances
shall be unaffected. (Ord. 406-2025, 8-12-2025)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS; FEES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Scope
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: License Required
4-1-5: Penalty
4-1-6: Licensing Procedure
4-1-7: Fees
4-1-8: Term
4-1-9: Regulation And Enforcement
4-1-10: Revocation/Suspension
4-1-11: Miscellaneous
4-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title apply to the issuance of every kind of business
license authorized by the city of Three Forks. Whenever a provision of a
particular licensing ordinance shall be deemed in conflict with any phrase or
section of this title, the provision of the particular licensing ordinance
shall prevail until amended or repealed.
   A.   Police Powers: All industries, trades, pursuits, professions,
vocations, and businesses are required to obtain licenses under this title as a
result of special services, regulation, control and protection provided under
the general police powers of this city in view of its health, safety, and
welfare.
   B.   Unlawful Activity: No provision contained in this title shall be
construed so as to license any trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit,
profession, or entertainment that is prohibited by any law of the United
States, of the state of Montana, or prohibited by the provisions of this code
or other ordinance of the city.
   C.   Interstate Commerce: Nothing in this title is intended to operate so as
to interfere with the power of the United States congress to regulate the
commerce between the states. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this title have been established to provide for the issuance
of annual business licenses within the city, and in order to maintain the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this title and other
related regulations in this code, shall have the following meanings, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUSINESS: All types of vocations, trades, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments, industries, pursuits, and all other types of
activities, together with all devices, machines, vehicles, and equipment used
therein, that are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or
indirectly, on any premises in the city, not exempted by state law or this
title.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk and deputy clerk for purposes of this title.
   HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling as an office, studio, or
workroom for occupations at home by one or more persons residing in the
dwelling unit. The activity must be clearly incidental to the use of the
dwelling and shall not change the character or appearance thereof.
   ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person engaged or employed in the business of
retailing to consumers by going from consumer to consumer, either on the
streets or to their places of residence or employment, and there soliciting,
selling, or offering to sell, or exhibiting for sale (by sample, by catalog, or
otherwise), or taking orders for future delivery of any goods, wares, or
merchandise or for services to be performed in the future.
   LICENSE: The authority, necessary from the city, granted the person to whom
it is issued, to engage in a specific business or occupation.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any group that is organized and operate exclusively
for the exempt purposes set forth by the United States internal revenue service
and the Montana state department of revenue.
   PERSON: Individual natural persons, partnerships, associations, firms, joint
ventures, societies, associations, clubs, trustees, trusts, corporations, or
other business entities, or any officers, agents, employees, factors, or any
kind of personal representatives thereof, in any capacity, acting either for
themselves, or for any other person, under either personal appointment or
pursuant to law.
   PROPERTY MANAGER: A person who rents or leases rental units. It does not
include hotels, motels, inns, bed and breakfasts, or the like.
   SEASONAL BUSINESS: All types of vocations, trades, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments, industries, pursuits, and all other types of
activities, together with all devices, machines, vehicles, and equipment used
therein, that are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or
indirectly, on any premises in the city, not exempted by state law or this
title, during limited parts of one calendar year, such as lawn mowing or snow
shoveling.
   STREET VENDOR: Any person vending food or other merchandise with no street
address, or from carts, kiosks, cart/kiosks, vehicles, trailers, or other
readily mobile sources to customers within the city limits.
   TEMPORARY PREMISES: A hotel, rooming house, storeroom, building or part of a
building, tent, vacant lot, freight station, railroad car, automobile, truck,
trailer or trailer house, or public or quasi-public place that is temporarily
occupied by a transient retail merchant.
   TRANSIENT RETAIL MERCHANT: A person, firm, or corporation that, acting on
its own behalf or representing any other person, firm, or corporation, brings
into temporary premises a stock of goods, wares, articles of merchandise,
notions, or other articles of trade and that solicits, sells, offers to sell,
or exhibits for sale the stock of goods, wares, articles of merchandise,
notions, or other articles of trade at retail. This definition applies until
such transient retail merchant is continuously engaged at such temporary
premises for a period of one year. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Business licenses are required by the city. No person shall carry on, transact,
operate, conduct, or engage in any occupation, trade, profession, or business,
either directly or indirectly, within the city involving the sale of goods and/
or services without first having procured a license from the city, provided
that occupation, trade, profession, or business has not been specifically
exempted from doing so by the state of Montana. Those occupations, trades,
professions, and/or businesses not specifically exempted from licensing
statutes of the state of Montana shall be required to purchase and maintain a
business license from the city.
This licensing requirement shall apply to all business, including, but not
limited to, all retail, wholesale, and industrial businesses, as well as all
home based businesses and businesses operated by nonprofit organizations as
defined herein. All new businesses must obtain a license prior to opening for
business. Any business licensed by the city shall not be required to obtain an
additional license for conducting business at a temporary location within the
city. Violation of this section shall subject the violator to the penalty as
proscribed herein.
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   Out Of City Businesses: A city business license is not required for
any out of city businesses doing business within city limits as a result of
being directly hired or contracted for a specific project of nonrepetitive
duration by a person, business, or governmental entity already licensed by the
city.
         a.   Subsection A1 of this section does not apply to persons or
businesses that actively solicit jobs within city limits, i.e., repair jobs,
house painting, storm restoration, sidewalk repair, and other like projects.
      2.   Joint License: A person engaged in two (2) or more businesses shall
not be required to obtain separate licenses for conducting each of the
businesses but, when eligible, shall be issued one license.
      3.   Delivery: No license shall be required of any person for delivery in
the city of any property purchased or acquired, in good faith, from a person or
business, as the person outside the city.
      4.   Nonprofit: No license shall be required of any "nonprofit
organization" as defined by this chapter, unless the nonprofit is operating a
business for profit as defined herein.
      5.   Minors: No license shall be required of any person under eighteen
(18) years of age.
      6.   Property Manager: No license shall be required for any property
manager managing or renting less than three (3) rental units.
      7.   Itinerant Vendors: No license shall be required for itinerant
vendors. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Misrepresentation: No person shall knowingly misrepresent any material
fact in a license application. Such misrepresentation allows for immediate
cancellation and/or denial of the license.
   B.   Complaint: When a violation of this title is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state fully the
cause and basis thereof and shall be filed with the city. Each complaint shall
be investigated and appropriate action shall be taken as provided by this
title.
   C.   Violation: Any person violating a provision of this title for which
another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a civil fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
violation. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate and
punishable violation.
   D.   Citation: Failure to cure a violation shall result in a citation. (Ord.
364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-6: LICENSING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Every person desiring to conduct any business, or other
activity, in the city, shall submit and file an application for license, in
writing, with the city clerk. The city clerk shall provide each applicant with
the proper application form. Each application shall be accompanied by the
necessary business license fee.
   B.   Contents: Each application shall be submitted with the representation
of truthfulness. It shall set forth, in writing:
      1.   The name of the applicant;
      2.   The applicant's place of permanent residence;
      3.   Local business address, if different than residence address;
      4.   Description of the activity to be licensed, its location, and
whether or not the activity is a seasonal business;
      5.   The amount of the necessary fee;
      6.   Whether the applicant shall act as principal or agent;
         a.   If acting as agent, the name and place of business of the
principal or employer;
      7.   Dates of delivery for goods or wares sold (for transient vendors
only);
      8.   The dates of issuance and expiration.
   C.   Review Process: Upon receipt of an application and fee, the application
shall be reviewed and investigated by the city clerk.
   D.   Issuance/Denial: Upon completion of the review process, the city clerk
shall either issue or deny the business license. Issuance of a business license
is contingent upon a business being in compliance with all applicable zoning
and fire codes, and any other laws and regulations which protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city. If the city clerk, after
review of the application, determines that it is not in the best interest of
the city to authorize the event applied for, or that it may be detrimental to
the public health, safety, or welfare, the application shall be denied;
otherwise, the application shall be granted.
   E.   Appeal: In the event the city clerk shall deny a business license, the
applicant may appeal to the city council. The application shall be reviewed by
the city council at its next regularly scheduled meeting. After hearing reports
deemed relevant from the city clerk and the applicant, the city council shall
determine if the license shall be granted or denied.
   F.   Amendment Of Application: Applicants and licensees shall have the right
to amend, update, and/or change applications and licenses; provided, however,
the amendment, update, and/or change does not materially alter compliance with
the provisions of this title. Each amendment, update, and/or change shall be
accompanied by the necessary fee. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-7: FEES:
   A.   General Business License: Any person engaged in business requiring
licensing under this title, excepting those specifically named in subsections B
and C of this section, shall pay an annual general business license fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per year.
   B.   Seasonal Business License: Any person engaged in one business defined
as seasonal business during one calendar year and requiring licensing under
this title, shall pay an annual seasonal business license fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per year so long as the seasonal business is limited to one
seasonal business in one calendar year.
Any person engaged in more than one seasonal business during one calendar year
is required to purchase a general business license.
   C.   Special Business License: Any person engaged in business defined as
special business and requiring licensing under this title, shall pay an annual
special business license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year.
      1.   Transient Retail Merchant: Any person engaged in business defined as
transient retail merchants and requiring licensing under this title, shall pay
a business license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per event.
   D.   Adult Business License: Any person engaged in business defined as adult
business and requiring licensing under this title, shall pay an annual adult
business license fee of any person engaged in business defined as special
business and requiring licensing under this title, shall pay an annual special
business license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. Adult businesses shall
also be subject to the rules and regulations of this chapter for the health,
safety, and welfare of the city.
   E.   Amendments, Updates, And/Or Changes: Any applicant desiring to amend,
update, and/or change an already submitted application for any type of license
shall be free of charge.
   F.   Allocation Of Fees: All fees collected under this title shall be
deposited into the city's general fund and used to support the various
departments, divisions, and activities of the city which provide regulation and
to recover the costs of administering this title.
   G.   Prohibition On Rebate/Proration: License fees shall not be prorated. No
rebate or refund of any license fee, or part thereof, shall be made by reason
of the nonuse of such license or by reason of a change of location or business
rendering the use of such license ineffective.
   H.   Denial: If a license or application is denied, and the appeal is also
denied, the license fee that accompanied the application shall be returned to
the applicant. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-8: TERM:
The term of every license issued under the authority of this title shall be for
one year. Each term shall commence October 1 and expire September 30.
   A.   Renewal: All licenses shall be renewed annually. Failure to renew a
license by November 1 of every year shall result in a delinquent charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) per month. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-9: REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General: Every business licensed under the provisions of this title
shall be subject to regulation, inspection, control, and supervision under the
police powers of the city and of all the ordinances of the city now in force or
which may hereafter be adopted or amended in aid of such power and regulation.
Nothing contained in this title creates any vested right to any person or
business to the assignment, renewal, reissuance, or continuation of any license
issued under this title.
   B.   Duties Of Licensee:
      1.   Display Requirement: Every licensee under this title shall post and
maintain such license upon the licensed premises in a place where it may be
seen at all times by the public. A transient retail merchant's license shall be
publicly displayed at all times.
      2.   Inspection Requirement: Any business licensed under this title shall
at all times be subject to inspection by city officials. The licensee and/or
employees of such licensee shall at all times allow the zoning compliance
officer to enter the premises for inspection of any licensed activity.
   C.   Report Of Licenses: The city clerk shall prepare an annual report
showing the following:
      1.   Valid Licenses: The names of all the parties who have paid licensing
fees for the preceding year; the business for which the same was paid; and, the
amount.
      2.   Delinquent Licenses: The names of all persons operating or
transacting any business, trade, or profession in the city for which a license
is required, and then remaining unpaid; the time for which such license is due;
the amount due; and, the business for which said license is required. (Ord.
364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-10: REVOCATION/SUSPENSION:
A license may be revoked or suspended when the licensee violates this title.
   A.   Procedure: This procedure shall be followed in revoking or suspending a
license:
      1.   Notice: A written notice shall be provided to the licensee at least
thirty (30) days prior to revocation or suspension. The notice shall state the
reason(s) for the action.
      2.   Request For Review: The licensee shall have the right to request a
review of the proposed action within twenty one (21) days of receipt of notice.
         a.   Meeting: When a review is requested, a meeting shall be set
between city staff and/or the mayor and the requesting party.
   B.   Immediate Harm: If conditions are determined to cause immediate threat
or harm to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the city shall
immediately suspend the license or until such condition is remedied.
   C.   Appeal: Any licensee shall have the right to file a written appeal to
the city council. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
4-1-11: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Transferability: No city issued license shall be transferable.
   B.   Civil Actions: The city attorney may institute civil suit in the name
of the city to recover any unpaid fees.
   C.   Civil Judgments: No civil judgment, or any act by the city attorney,
the mayor, or the violator shall bar or prevent a criminal prosecution for each
and every violation of this title. (Ord. 364-2016, 5-10-2016)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR SALES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Purpose
4-2A-2: Definitions
4-2A-3: Licenses Issued To Qualified Applicants
4-2A-4: Annual License Fees
4-2A-5: Application For License
4-2A-6: Council Action On Application
4-2A-7: Conditions Of License
4-2A-8: State And City Licenses
4-2A-9: State Law Prevails
4-2A-10: Business Carried On Under License Issued
4-2A-11: Sales To Certain Persons
4-2A-12: Liquor Purchased From State Liquor Store
4-2A-13: Selling Liquor Without License
4-2A-14: Posting License At Entrance To Premises
4-2A-15: Hours; Compliance With State Law
4-2A-16: Entertainment After Hours
4-2A-17: Minors Restricted
4-2A-18: Investigation Of Licensee
4-2A-19: Complaint Against Licensee; Hearing
4-2A-20: Examination Of Premises
4-2A-21: Renewal Of License Following Suspension
4-2A-22: Receipts From License Fees And Fines
4-2A-23: Penalties
4-2A-1: PURPOSE:
In order to eliminate certain illegal traffic in liquor now existing in the
City, and to ensure the control of the sale of liquor in the Montana Department
of Revenue, it is hereby declared necessary to further regulate the sale of
liquor at retail in conformity with the Act mentioned in Section
 4-2A-2 of this Article, and to that end to issue licenses to qualified persons
to sell liquor purchased by them at State liquor stores in accordance with this
Article, and to provide severe penalties for violation thereof. (1977 Code §
5.12.010; amd. 2000 Code)
4-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this Article, the definition of which is not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary meanings. The following words and
phrases used in this Article shall be given the following interpretation:
   ACT: Chapter 84 of the laws of the Twenty-Fifth Legislative Assembly of the
State of Montana, in regular session.
   CLUB: A national fraternal organization, except college fraternities, or an
association of individuals organized for social purposes and not for profit,
with a permanent membership and an existence of two (2) years prior to making
application for license with permanent quarters or rooms.
   COUNCIL: The Council of the City of Three Forks.
   INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under
the laws of Montana.
   LICENSE: A license issued by the City of Three Forks to a qualified person
under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor at
retail as provided in this Article.
   LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued.
   LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and/or in a State liquor store.
   MINOR: A person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   PERSON: Every individual, copartnership, corporation, hotel, restaurant,
club and fraternal organization, and all licensed retailers of liquor, whether
conducting the business singularly or collectively.
   PREMISES: A dispensing bar, or any arrangement or device from which liquor
is dispensed, and/or served; provided, however, that where there is a premises
under chapter 84 of the twenty fifth session laws of the state of Montana of
1937, is permitted to operate under one license by the Montana department of
revenue, the designation placed on said premises by said board will be
controlling on the city of Three Forks.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE: A liquor store established and operated by the Montana
department of revenue under the laws of Montana. (1977 Code § 5.12.020; amd.
2000 Code)
4-2A-3: LICENSES ISSUED TO QUALIFIED APPLICANTS:
Licenses may be issued to qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby the
licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor at retail in
accordance with the provisions of this article. Qualified applicants shall
include persons, hotels, clubs, and fraternal organizations. (1977 Code §
5.12.030)
4-2A-4: ANNUAL LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Each licensee under the provisions of this article shall
pay an annual license fee for each license as follows:
 
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses Annual Fee
                            (Due By September 30)
All beverage liquor         5/8 of the fee of the annual all beverage license
                            charged by the state of Montana
 
(Ord. 340-13, 11-12-2013)
   B.   Proration Of Fee; Refund: Provided, however, that where a license
hereunder is issued for a period commencing subsequent to the first of the
current year for which such license may be issued, a pro rata fee only shall be
charged for the balance of such current year, but nothing herein shall be
construed to entitle any licensee hereunder to any portion of the license fee
in the event of his discontinuing such business, or the suspension or
revocation of his license prior to the expiration of such year, except and save
that he shall be entitled to a pro rata refund in the event that his business
is discontinued by virtue of said act, being, by referendum petition, rendered
inoperative, awaiting such time it may be passed upon at an election, and the
determination and declaration of the result as provided by law.
   C.   Additional Fees: The license fees herein provided for are exclusive of
and in addition to other license fees chargeable in the city for the sale of
liquor, beer and malt beverages. (1977 Code § 5.12.040)
4-2A-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Prior to the issuance of a license as herein
provided, the applicant shall file with the city clerk an application in
writing, signed by the applicant and directed to the city council, which
application shall specify the location by street and number of the premises
where the business is to be carried on under the license applied for and the
name of the persons conducting the business if the same is a partnership, and
if the same is a fraternal order, such fact must be therein set forth.
   B.   Proof Of State Licensing: The application must be accompanied by
satisfactory evidence that the applicant has the licenses required by section
4-2A-8 of this article.
   C.   Payment Of Fee: Such application must be accompanied by the license fee
in section
4-2A-4 of this article, specified for the business applied for. (1977 Code §
5.12.050)
4-2A-6: COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Denial Of License: Upon the filing of the application prescribed in
section
4-2A-5 of this article, accompanied by the evidence thereby required, and upon
the payment of the required license fee, the city clerk shall deliver such
application and accompanying documents to the city council, which may, in its
discretion, decline to authorize such license, if, in the judgment of the
council, it will be for the best interests of the city to refuse such license.
   B.   Fee And Documents Returned To Applicant: Upon such refusal, the license
fee paid by the applicant and all documents filed by him, other than such
application, shall be returned to the applicant. (1977 Code § 5.12.060)
4-2A-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents Of License: Every license issued under this article shall set
forth the name of the person to whom issued and the location by street and
number of the premises where the business is to be carried on under such
license. If it is a partnership, it shall set forth the names of the persons
conducting the business. (1977 Code § 5.12.070)
   B.   Transferability Of License: Such license shall be signed by licensee,
and shall be nontransferable; provided, however, that a transfer of any such
license may be made on application to the council, accompanied by satisfactory
evidence of the consent of the Montana department of revenue to such transfer
of the license by it issued under said act. (1977 Code § 5.12.070; amd. 2000
Code)
   C.   Posting Of License: Such license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises in respect to which it is issued and shall be exhibited to a
police officer whenever the same is requested. (1977 Code § 5.12.070; amd. 2000
Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
   D.   Separate And Distinct Licenses: Every license issued under the
provisions of this article is separate and distinct, and no person except the
licensee therein named, shall exercise any of the privileges granted
thereunder, and all licenses are applicable only to the premises in respect to
which they are issued, as the word "premises" is defined in section
4-2A-2 of this article.
   E.   Licensee Limited To One Premises: It is expressly made unlawful for any
licensee to operate more than one bar, or any arrangement or device from which
liquor is dispensed and/or served, and it is required that a separate license
be procured for each bar or any arrangement or device from which liquor is
dispensed and/or served. (1977 Code § 5.12.070)
4-2A-8: STATE AND CITY LICENSES:
No person, club, or fraternal organization shall be entitled to a license under
this article unless such person, club or fraternal organization shall have in
respect to the same premises for which a license under this article is sought:
   A.   A subsisting liquor license issued under the laws of Montana;
   B.   A subsisting beer license issued under the laws of Montana; and
   C.   A subsisting beer license issued under the ordinances of the city.
(1977 Code § 5.12.080)
4-2A-9: STATE LAW PREVAILS:
The provisions of this article as to the issuance of licenses, as herein
provided for, shall be effective concurrently with state law. (1977 Code §
5.12.210)
4-2A-10: BUSINESS CARRIED ON UNDER LICENSE ISSUED:
No business shall be carried on under any license issued under this article
except in the name of the licensee. No license shall be effective until a
permit shall have been first secured under the laws of the United States if
such permit is necessary or is required under such law. (1977 Code § 5.12.220)
4-2A-11: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No licensee shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any liquor to:
   A.   Any minor actually under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Any intoxicated person or any person actually, apparently or obviously
intoxicated.
   C.   A habitual drunkard.
   D.   An interdicted person. (1977 Code § 5.12.090)
4-2A-12: LIQUOR PURCHASED FROM STATE LIQUOR STORE:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or keep for sale and/or have on
his premises for any purposes whatever, any liquor except that purchased from a
state liquor store, and any licensee found in possession of, or selling and
keeping for sale, any liquor which was not purchased from a state liquor store,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as hereafter provided, and if the
council shall be satisfied that any such liquor was knowingly sold or kept for
sale within the licensed premises by such licensee, or by his agents, servants
or employees, it shall be mandatory that the council immediately revoke the
license of such licensee. (1977 Code § 5.12.110)
4-2A-13: SELLING LIQUOR WITHOUT LICENSE:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person who has not been
issued a license under this article to sell or keep for sale any alcoholic
liquor; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
apply to those engaged in the sale of liquor.
   B.   Railroad Dining Or Buffet Cars: In any dining or buffet car operated by
any railroad in connection with regularly operated train service, when the
person serving such liquor is in the employ of such railroad and is acting
within the scope of his employment in so doing, provided a license has been
issued to said railroad under said act by the Montana department of revenue,
and the same, or a duplicate thereof, is displayed in such car. (1977 Code §
5.12.120; amd. 2000 Code)
4-2A-14: POSTING LICENSE AT ENTRANCE TO PREMISES:
Each licensee under this article shall conspicuously display at the entrance to
the premises where liquor is being sold, in letters at least three inches (3")
high, the words "Licensed Retail Liquor". Said letters shall preferably be
illuminated at night, but in any event easily discernible to anyone entering
said premises and placed in such a way as to cause them to be noticed by anyone
entering said premises. (1977 Code § 5.12.130)
4-2A-15: HOURS; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon any premises
licensed to sell liquor at retail during the hours other than as permitted by
state law. (1977 Code § 5.12.100)
4-2A-16: ENTERTAINMENT AFTER HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to permit any song,
instrumental or dance music of any kind or character whatsoever, in any
premises, or any room or hall adjacent to any premises, in which liquor is
served between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. of the same day. (1977 Code § 5.12.230)
4-2A-17: MINORS RESTRICTED:
It is hereby expressly made unlawful for any minor to enter into, for any
purpose whatsoever, the premises covered by a license under this article unless
such minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legally appointed guardian,
and any minor violating the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for each separate offense; provided, however, that provisions of this section
shall not apply to hotel dining rooms; nor to lunch counters and/or booths
where liquor is not served by any licensee hereunder. (1977 Code § 5.12.140)
4-2A-18: INVESTIGATION OF LICENSEE:
The city council may upon its own motion, and shall upon a written verified
complaint of any other person, investigate the action and operation of any
licensee hereunder, and shall have the power to temporarily suspend and/or
permanently revoke a license issued under this article for violation of any
provisions of this article. (1977 Code § 5.12.150)
4-2A-19: COMPLAINT AGAINST LICENSEE; HEARING:
   A.   Filing With Council; Citation Issuance:
      1.   Upon the filing with the city council of a verified complaint
charging the licensee with the commission of any act which would be cause for
the suspension or revocation of a license, within one year prior to the date of
filing said complaint, the council shall forthwith issue a citation directing
the licensee to appear before the council within ten (10) days after the date
of the service of said citation, and by filing his verified answer to the
complaint, show cause, if any, why his license should not be suspended or
revoked. (1977 Code § 5.12.160)
      2.   Service of the citation may be effected by mailing a true copy
thereof to the address of record or by a police officer. (1977 Code § 5.12.160;
amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
      3.   Failure of the licensee to answer shall be deemed an admission by
him of the truthfulness of the charge made and thereupon the council shall be
authorized to forthwith suspend or revoke the license. (1977 Code § 5.12.160)
   B.   Filing Answer To Council; Notice Of Hearing: Upon the filing of the
answer to the council, the council shall fix the time and place of the hearing
on the charges made, which hearing shall be in the council chambers of the city
hall, and not less than five (5) days' notice of said hearing shall be given to
the complainant and licensee. The notice of the hearing shall be served in the
same manner as in the citation herein provided for, with the notice of the
hearing to the complainant, there shall be attached a true copy of the answer
of the licensee. If either party has appeared by counsel, the notice shall be
given in like manner to the counsel of said party.
   C.   Council Decision: Upon the hearing, the council shall hear the evidence
presented, which may be in the form of oral testimony or affidavits, or both.
After the hearing has been concluded the council shall, within ten (10) days,
render its decision in writing, stating the persons therefor. Notice of the
decision, with a copy thereof, shall revoke or cancel a license previously
issued by it. The council shall notify the licensee, in writing by registered
mail to the address of such licensee, of its action, giving reasons therefor.
Shall the action of the council be arbitrary or capricious, one aggrieved
thereby shall, by mandamus, or other appropriate proceeding, be entitled to
have the action of the council reviewed by the district court of the state in
and for the county of Gallatin. (1977 Code § 5.12.170)
4-2A-20: EXAMINATION OF PREMISES:
Any duly authorized representative of the city council, or the mayor, or police
officers shall have the right at any time to make an examination of the
premises of such licensee as to whether this article is being complied with.
(1977 Code § 5.12.180; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
4-2A-21: RENEWAL OF LICENSE FOLLOWING SUSPENSION:
After suspension or revocation of a license, the city council shall have the
power to renew the same if in its discretion a proper showing therefor has been
made. (1977 Code § 5.12.190)
4-2A-22: RECEIPTS FROM LICENSE FEES AND FINES:
All receipts from license fees and fines collected under the provisions of this
article shall be paid into the city treasury and deposited to the credit of the
general fund. (1977 Code § 5.12.200; amd. 2000 Code)
4-2A-23: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
article shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
 1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   License Revocation: If convicted, such license shall be immediately
revoked; provided, that this section shall not include the offense designated
in section
4-2A-17 of this article. (1977 Code § 5.12.240; amd. 2000 Code)
ARTICLE B. BEER SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Adoption Of State Law; City Authority
4-2B-2: City License Requirements; Fees
4-2B-3: Application For License
4-2B-4: Council Action On Application
4-2B-5: Duty Of City Clerk
4-2B-6: Display Of License
4-2B-7: Exercise Of General Police Power
4-2B-8: Location In Residence Prohibited
4-2B-9: Sales To Certain Persons
4-2B-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-2B-11: Penalties
4-2B-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; CITY AUTHORITY:
   A.   State Law Adopted: The city hereby recognizes the right, among others
reserved by the Montana alcoholic beverage code to the several cities and
incorporated cities of the state to enact ordinances for the enforcement of
title 16, Montana Code Annotated. To that end the penal provisions of the
Montana alcoholic beverage code are hereby adopted as the law of the city.
(1977 Code § 5.20.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   City Enforcement: The city court is hereby vested with the
jurisdiction, and the duty is hereby imposed upon the city attorney, police
officers and city judge to enforce the same. (1977 Code § 5.20.010; amd. 2000
Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
4-2B-2: CITY LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Fees Imposed: Under and by virtue of the power
granted to the city councils of the cities and towns of this state, and in aid
of the police power and regulations of the city and in exercise of the
authority reserved by the Montana alcoholic beverage code to the cities and
incorporated towns of the state, it is hereby ordained that any person who
desires to engage in the business of selling beer in the city under the
provisions of title 16, Montana Code Annotated, in the character or places
hereinafter mentioned, as defined by title 16, Montana Code Annotated, shall,
notwithstanding the fact that the person conducting such place has obtained a
license from the Montana department of revenue, first apply for and obtain a
license therefor from the city, as herein provided, and if such license is
granted shall pay therefor an annual license fee as follows:
 
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses/Beer       Annual Fee
Sales And Distribution                 (Due By September 30)
Beer and wine, table wine distributor, 100% of the fee of the annual beer and
winery, beer, wholesaler               wine license charged by the state of
                                       Montana
 
   B.   Expiration Of License; Transfer; Prorate Fee:
      1.   Any license used in any year shall expire on September 30 at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight of such year. (Ord. 341-13, 11-12-2013)
      2.   Provided, that a transfer of any such license may be made on
application to the city, accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of
the transfer of the license issued by the Montana department of revenue for
such business.
      3.   Provided, further, that where a license hereunder is issued for a
period commencing subsequent to the first day of the current year for which
such license may be issued, a pro rata fee only shall be charged for the
balance of such current year, but nothing herein shall be construed to entitle
any licensee hereunder to any refund of any portion of the license fee in the
event of his discontinuing such business or the suspension or revocation of his
license, prior to the expiration of such year. (1977 Code § 5.20.020; amd. 2000
Code)
4-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Every person required by this Article to obtain
a license must, before commencing such business, file with the City Treasurer
an application, in writing, directed to the City Council.
   B.   Evidence Of State License Required: Such application shall be in
substantially the same form as the form which may be prescribed by the Montana
Department of Revenue to carry out the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Code for a like business under title 16, Montana Code Annotated, and must be
accompanied by satisfactory evidence that the applicant is the owner and holder
of a subsisting license or permit issued by said Department under the
provisions of title 16, Montana Code Annotated, for the same business and the
same location for which application for City license is being made.
   C.   Payment Of Fee: Such application must be accompanied with the license
fee prescribed in Section
4-2B-2 of this Article, specified for the business applied for, and, if such
applicant is an agent, such applicant must accompany such application with
principal's acknowledgment of such agency. (1977 Code § 5.20.030; amd. 2000
Code)
4-2B-4: COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Refusal Of License: Upon the filing of the application prescribed in
Section
4-2B-3 of this Article, accompanied by the evidence thereby required, and upon
the payment of the required license fee, the City Clerk shall present the
application to the next regular meeting of the City Council following his
receipt of such application and accompanying documents, if any, when he shall
submit such application and accompanying documents to the Council, which may in
its discretion decline to authorize such license if, in the judgment of the
Council, it will be for the best interest of the City to refuse such license.
   B.   Fee And Documents Returned: Upon such refusal, the license fee paid by
the applicant and all documents filed by him, other than such application,
shall be returned to the applicant. (1977 Code § 5.20.040)
4-2B-5: DUTY OF CITY CLERK:
The City Clerk shall be charged with the collection of the licenses herein
provided for, and application for license, accompanied by the fee therefor,
shall be filed with such City Clerk. The City Clerk shall prepare all blanks
for licenses, and all books of account in connection therewith, and all
expenses in connection with the administration of this Article shall, so far as
possible, be charged against the funds collected under this Article. (1977 Code
§ 5.20.080)
4-2B-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any or all licenses issued under the provisions of this Article shall be, at
all times, prominently displayed in the place of business of such licensee.
(1977 Code § 5.20.060)
4-2B-7: EXERCISE OF GENERAL POLICE POWER:
   A.   Inspection And Regulation: Every person, firm, association or
corporation licensed under the provisions of this Article shall be subject to
regulation, inspection, control and supervision under the general police power
of the City and all of the ordinances now in force or which may hereafter be
adopted, in aid of such police power and regulation; and each and every such
license shall be subject to suspension and revocation as herein provided. (1977
Code § 5.20.090)
   B.   Additional Costs: The business of selling beer within the City requires
special regulation, inspection, control and protection under the general police
power of the City, and on account of such special service it is estimated that
there is chargeable to such business, all of the costs of administration and
control of this Article. All of the funds paid or collected under the
provisions of this Article shall be paid to the City Treasury to the credit of
the General Fund. (1977 Code § 5.20.100)
4-2B-8: LOCATION IN RESIDENCE PROHIBITED:
No license shall be issued for any such business if the same is to be conducted
in a residence district of the City. (1977 Code § 5.20.050)
4-2B-9: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
   A.   Service Prohibited: No licensee or his or her employee, agent, servant,
nor any other person shall sell, deliver, give away, exchange, or dispose of,
or cause, or permit to be sold, delivered, given away, bartered, exchanged, or
disposed of, any liquor, alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, beer, ale, porter,
or wine to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2.   Any intoxicated person or any person actually, apparently, or
obviously intoxicated;
      3.   An habitual drunkard;
      4.   An interdicted person.
   B.   Remaining On Premises Prohibited: No such person shall be allowed or
permitted to come into or remain in or about premises where beer or liquor is
sold.
   C.   Exception: Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the furnishing of
intoxicating liquor to persons under twenty one (21) years of age upon any
physician's prescription where authorized by the laws of this State or the
United States, nor the furnishing of wine for sacramental purposes. (1977 Code
§ 5.20.110)
4-2B-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If any license issued by the Montana Department of Revenue under the provisions
of the Alcoholic Beverage Code shall be revoked, or shall be suspended under
the provisions of title 16, Montana Code Annotated, the companion license
issued under the provisions of this Article shall be automatically revoked or
suspended for the same period, and in the event said action by the Montana
Department of Revenue shall, on appeal, be modified or set aside, the
suspension or revocation of the license issued under the provisions of this
Article shall likewise be automatically affected. (1977 Code § 5.20.070; amd.
2000 Code)
4-2B-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm, association or corporation violating
any of the provisions of this Article shall, upon conviction, be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   License Revocation: If any such licensee or his or her employee, agent,
or servant is convicted of any offense under this Article, the licensee's
license shall be immediately revoked, or in the discretion of the Council
suspended temporarily for a time to be determined by the Council. (1977 Code §
5.20.120; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
4-3-1: License Required
4-3-2: Application For License
4-3-3: Grant Of License
4-3-4: License Not Exclusive
4-3-5: Term Of License; Annual License Fee
4-3-6: Transfer Of License
4-3-7: Procedure Upon Termination
4-3-8: Indemnification Of City
4-3-9: Conditions On Street Occupancy
4-3-10: Safety Requirements
4-3-11: Person Designated As Agent
4-3-12: Operational Standards
4-3-13: Violations
4-3-14: Penalty
4-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a cable television system
within the City without first having obtained a license for such purpose. (1977
Code § 5.28.010)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license to engage in the business of operating a cable
television system shall be made by filing an application with the City Clerk.
The application shall set forth the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant; and should the applicant be a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation.
   B.   An outline of the general construction and operating plans of the
applicant.
   C.   A proposed schedule for the construction of the system and the proposed
date of the commencement of the service.
   D.   A statement of the policy of the applicant concerning the extension of
the system within the license area. (1977 Code § 5.28.020)
4-3-3: GRANT OF LICENSE:
The City Council shall issue to a qualified applicant, a license granting unto
the licensee the right and privilege to erect, construct, install, repair,
replace, reconstruct, maintain and operate in, on, over, under, upon, across
and along any public street, public way and public place now laid out or
dedicated, and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the license
area, such poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and
appurtenant to the cable television system. (1977 Code § 5.28.030)
4-3-4: LICENSE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The rights, privileges and license to engage in the business of operating a
cable television system in the City provided for in this Chapter shall not be
exclusive and the City has the right to grant similar rights, privileges and
licenses to others. (1977 Code § 5.28.040)
4-3-5: TERM OF LICENSE; ANNUAL LICENSE FEE:
The term of such license shall be fifteen (15) years; and the annual license
fee, in lieu of all license and business and occupational taxes, shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00), payable on or before January 15 in each year. If
such license is granted after January 15 in any year, the said license fee
shall be prorated for the first year. The City reserves the right to review and
modify said license fee from time to time. (1977 Code § 5.28.050)
4-3-6: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license granted hereunder is transferable by the licensee upon application to
the City Council, and approval of such transfer shall not be withheld by the
City Council except for good cause shown after public hearing at which both the
licensee and the proposed transferee shall have the right to be heard. (1977
Code § 5.28.110)
4-3-7: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
If any license granted hereunder is not renewed by the licensee or if the
license is terminated for any other reason, the licensee shall, at its own
expense, remove all of its facilities located on public ways, leaving the said
public ways in a safe condition, to conform to the existing condition of said
public ways. (1977 Code § 5.28.120)
4-3-8: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
The licensee shall at all times protect and hold harmless the City from all
claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind and
description, including investigation costs, court costs and attorney fees,
which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any person arising out of the
negligence of the licensee in the ownership, construction, repair, replacement,
maintenance and operation of the cable television system. The City shall give
the licensee prompt written notice of any such claims filed against it. (1977
Code § 5.28.080)
4-3-9: CONDITIONS ON STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Location Of Transmission Lines, Structures: All transmission and
distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by the licensee within the
City shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use
of the streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin or abut any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways and places.
(1977 Code § 5.28.060)
   B.   Restoration Of Street, Public Way: In case of disturbance in the
street, sidewalk, alley, public way, grass or paved areas or any other public
or private property, the licensee shall, at its own expense and in the manner
approved by the Street Superintendent replace and restore said street,
sidewalk, alley, public way, grass or paved area or any other public or private
property in as good a condition as before the work involving such disturbance
was done. (1977 Code § 5.28.060; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Street Grade Alteration By City; Duties Of Licensee: If at any time the
City shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public way, the licensee shall, upon reasonable notice in
writing from the City, remove, re-lay and relocate its poles, wires, cables,
underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   D.   Placement Of Fixtures: Any fixture placed in any public way by the
licensee shall be placed in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual
travel on such public way. (1977 Code § 5.28.060)
4-3-10: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prevention Of Accidents: The licensee shall at all times employ
ordinary care and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods
and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause
damage, injuries or nuisance to the public.
   B.   Compliance With City Regulations: The licensee shall install and
maintain its wires, cables and fixtures and other equipment in accordance with
requirements of the ordinances, code and regulations of the City, and in such a
manner that they will not interfere with any installation of the City or public
utilities serving the City.
   C.   Maintenance Of Equipment: All structures and lines, equipment and
connections in, over, under and on the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public
ways or places of the City, wherever situated or located, shall at all times be
kept and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition and in good
order and repair. (1977 Code § 5.28.070)
4-3-11: PERSON DESIGNATED AS AGENT:
The licensee shall file with the City Clerk, the name, address and telephone
number of one or more persons who shall be its agent or agents to receive
communications from the City or subscribers of the licensee. (1977 Code §
5.28.090)
4-3-12: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The licensee shall operate and maintain its cable television system in full
compliance with whatever technical standards are lawfully prescribed by the
Federal Communications Commission. (1977 Code § 5.28.100)
4-3-13: VIOLATIONS:
From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person
to construct, install or maintain within the City, any equipment or facilities
for distributing any television signals or radio signals through a cable
television system, unless a license authorizing such use of such street or
property or area has first been obtained, and unless such license is in full
force and effect. (1977 Code § 5.28.13)
4-3-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and for each day of violation or
failure to comply the person so violating may be subject to penalty as provided
in Section
 1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 5.28.140; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Classification
4-4-4: License Required
4-4-5: Issuance Of License
4-4-6: Fees
4-4-7: Inspection
4-4-8: Expiration Of License; Denial Of Renewal
4-4-9: Suspension
4-4-10: Revocation
4-4-11: Judicial Review
4-4-12: No Transfer Of License
4-4-13: Location Restrictions
4-4-14: Nonconforming Uses; Amortization
4-4-15: Additional Regulations For Adult Motels
4-4-16: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
4-4-17: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
4-4-18: Additional Regulations Concerning Public Nudity
4-4-19: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And Videos
4-4-20: Exterior Portions Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
4-4-21: Signage
4-4-22: Sale, Use Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
4-4-23: Persons Younger Than Eighteen Prohibited From Entry; Attendant Required
4-4-24: Massages Or Baths Administered By Person Of Opposite Sex
4-4-25: Exemptions
4-4-26: Notices
4-4-27: Injunction
4-4-28: Separability
4-4-29: Repealer
4-4-30: Effective Date
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses and
related activities to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials.
(Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, cafe or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently feature:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity; or
   B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, photographic
reproductions or other image producing devices that are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; or
   D.   Persons who engage in "exotic" or erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
   ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
   A.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas", and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
twenty four (24) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than twenty four (24) hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually and consistently
shown that are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually and consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or seminudity, and/or
live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   DIRECTOR: The chief of police and such employee(s) of the police department
as he may designate to perform the duties of the director under this chapter.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. "Employee"
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on the premises
as a patron or customer.
   ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business;
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business; or
   E.   A sexually oriented business or premises on which the sexually oriented
business is located.
   LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER: A facility licensed by the state of Montana,
whether situated within the city or not, that provides care, training,
education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than twelve (12) children
under fourteen (14) years of age, where such children are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than
twenty four (24) hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is
operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE: A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy or
musical drama.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who repeatedly or regularly
appears in a state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or
similarly depicted by other persons for consideration.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to section
 4-4-4 of this chapter.
   SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between persons of the opposite sex and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio
or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if fully and opaquely covered;
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or other
countries.
   B.   For which:
1. Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
2. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
3. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period;
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breast, whether covered or uncovered;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as
the floor areas existed on August 1, 2000.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-3: CLASSIFICATION:
Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult cabarets;
   C.   Adult motels;
   D.   Adult motion picture theaters;
   E.   Adult theaters;
   F.   Escort agencies;
   G.   Nude model studios; and
   H.   Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful:
      1.   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business operator's license ("operator's license")
issued by the chief of police pursuant to this chapter; or
      2.   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work and/or perform services on the premises of the sexually oriented
business, if such employee is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented
business employee license ("employee license") issued to such employee by the
chief of police pursuant to this chapter;
      3.   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business if such person is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented
business employee license issued to such person by the chief of police pursuant
to this chapter.
      4.   It shall be a defense to subsections A2 and A3 of this section if
the employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or
maintenance of machinery, equipment or the premises.
Violations of any provision within this subsection A shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   B.   An application for a sexually oriented business operator's license must
be made on a form provided by the city. The application must be accompanied by
a sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches (±6"). Prior to issuance of an operator's license, the
premises must be inspected by the chief of police. Prior inspection by the
chief of police or other public safety officer shall be required only when the
provisions set forth in sections
4-4-17 and
 4-4-18 of this chapter are applicable.
   C.   An application for a sexually oriented business employee license must
be made on a form provided by the city.
   D.   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information reasonably necessary (including fingerprints)
to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to
supplement an application with new information received subsequent to the date
the application was deemed completed.
   E.   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually oriented business
is an individual, he must sign the application for an operator's license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or
greater interest in the business must sign the application for an operator's
license as applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually
oriented business or as the entity that wishes to operate such a business, all
corporate officers and directors must sign the application for an operator's
license as applicant.
   F.   Applications for an operator's license, whether original or renewal,
must be made to the chief of police by the intended operator of the enterprise.
Applications must be submitted to the office of the chief of police or the
chief of police's designee during regular working hours. Application forms
shall be supplied by the chief of police. The following information shall be
provided on the application form:
      1.   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant(s);
      2.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      3.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      4.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided;
         a.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented
business under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state:
1) the sexually oriented business' fictitious name and 2) submit the required
registration documents;
      5.   Whether the applicant has been convicted or is awaiting trial on
pending charges of a "specified criminal activity" as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter, and, if so, the "specified criminal activity" involved,
the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
      6.   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or
county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the business license was denied, suspended
or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and
whether the applicant is or has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed
under a sexually oriented business ordinance whose business license has
previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location
of the sexually oriented business for which the business license was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      7.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      8.   The single classification of a license, as found in section
4-4-3 of this chapter, for which the applicant is filing;
      9.   The telephone number of the establishment;
      10.   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be located;
      11.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and
the date on which the establishment began operations as a sexually oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
      12.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten (10)
days following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same;
      13.   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space,
films, videocassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which
depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the
applicant shall comply with the application requirements set forth in section
4-4-19 of this chapter.
   G.   Each application for an operator's license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee in full;
      2.   If the establishment is a state of Montana corporation, a certified
copy of the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      4.   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the state of Montana, a certified copy of the certificate of limited
partnership, together with all amendments thereto;
      5.   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      6.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      7.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in subsection G6 of this section is not also the owner of the sexually oriented
business, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease
option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right
of the owner(s) or proposed owner(s) of the sexually oriented business to have
or obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the sexually oriented business;
      8.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the property to be
certified; and the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue or school within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the property to be
certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
      9.   Any of subsections G2 through G8 of this section shall not be
required for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents
previously furnished to the chief of police with the original application or
previous renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   H.   Applications for an employee license to work and/or perform services in
a sexually oriented business, whether original or renewal, must be made to the
chief of police by the person to whom the employee license shall issue. Each
application for an employee license shall be accompanied by payment of the
application fee in full. Application forms shall be supplied by the chief of
police. Applications must be submitted to the office of the chief of police or
the chief of police's designee during regular working hours. Each applicant
shall be required to give the following information on the application form:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including "stage" names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color and eye color;
      4.   Present business address and telephone number;
      5.   Date, issuing state and number of photo driver's license, or other
state issued identification card information;
      6.   Social security number; and
      7.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years old.
The personal information provided in this subsection shall be confidential and
shall not be disclosed to the public except to the extent required by state or
federal law.
   I.   Attached to the application form for any license under this chapter
shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation and suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has, within the past five (5)
years, been convicted or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a "specified
criminal activity" as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter and, if so, the "specified criminal activity" involved,
the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   J.   Every application for a license under this chapter shall contain a
statement under oath that:
      1.   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in
the application and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
      2.   The applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   K.   A separate application and operator's license shall be required for
each sexually oriented business as set forth in section
4-4-3 of this chapter.
   L.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business operator or employee license. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-
9-2003)
4-4-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the filing of an application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the chief of police shall issue a temporary license to said
applicant. The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within thirty (30) days
from the date of the completed application. After the investigation, the chief
of police shall issue an employee license, unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      2.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter;
      4.   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      5.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two (2) years of the date of the current
application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately rendered null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as set forth in subsection I of this section.
   B.   A license issued pursuant to subsection A of this section, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it is granted, the
expiration date and the address of the sexually oriented business. While
engaged in employment or performing services on the sexually oriented business
premises, an employee shall, at all times, possess the license in such manner
as to be available for immediate inspection upon lawful request.
   C.   A license issued pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the chief of police that the applicant has not been convicted of any
"specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, or committed any act
during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the
initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be
made within thirty (30) days of the completion application. The renewal of a
license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
4-4-6 of this chapter. Nonrenewal of a license shall be subject to appeal as
set forth in subsection I of this section.
   D.   If application is made for a sexually oriented business operator's
license, the chief of police shall approve or deny issuance of the license
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed application. The chief of
police shall issue a license to an applicant unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
      1.   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      2.   An applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   An applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate a
sexually oriented business within the preceding twelve (12) months, or whose
license to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the
preceding twelve (12) months;
      4.   An applicant is overdue in payment to the city for taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to the
sexually oriented business for which license is sought, or the property on
which the sexually oriented business is located or will be located;
      5.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined in section
 4-4-2 of this chapter;
      6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the police department and zoning commission as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances, if such approval is required
under other sections of this chapter;
      7.   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   A license issued pursuant to subsection D of this section, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is
granted, the expiration date, the address of the sexually oriented business and
the classification in section
 4-4-3 of this chapter for which the license is issued. The license shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   F.   If so required under other sections of this chapter, the chief of
police shall complete his certification that the premises are in compliance or
not in compliance within twenty (20) days of receipt of the completed
application by the chief of police. The certification shall be promptly
presented to the chief of police. Failure of an appropriate department to
timely certify its inspection shall not be grounds for refusing to issue a
license within the mandatory time period prescribed in subsection D of this
section.
   G.   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification, as set forth in section
4-4-3 of this chapter.
   H.   In the event that the chief of police determines that an applicant is
not eligible for a sexually oriented operator's license, the applicant shall be
given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within thirty (30) days
of the receipt of the completed application by the chief of police, provided
that the applicant may request, in writing at any time before the notice is
issued, that such period be extended for an additional period of not more than
ten (10) days in order to make modifications necessary to comply with this
chapter.
   I.   An applicant may appeal the decision of the chief of police regarding a
denial to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
clerk/treasurer within ten (10) days after service of notice upon the applicant
of the chief of police's decision. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by
a memorandum or other writing setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and
all arguments in support thereof. The chief of police may, within fifteen (15)
days of service upon him of the applicant's memorandum, submit a responsive
memorandum to the city council. After reviewing such memoranda, as well as the
chief of police's written decision, if any, and exhibits submitted to the chief
of police, the city council shall vote either to uphold or overrule the chief
of police's decision. Such vote shall be taken within twenty one (21) calendar
days after the date on which the city clerk/treasurer receives the notice of
appeal. The status quo immediately prior to denial of the license shall be
maintained during the pendency of the appeal. Judicial review of a denial by
the chief of police and city council may be made pursuant to section
4-4-11 of this chapter. The status quo shall continue to be maintained during
the pendency of judicial review.
   J.   A license issued pursuant to subsection D of this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the chief of police that the applicant has not been convicted of any
"specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, or committed any act
during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the
initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be
made within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a
license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
4-4-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-6: FEES:
The initial fee for a sexually oriented business operator's license shall be
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The annual fee for a sexually oriented
business operator's license for renewal is five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
annual fee for a sexually oriented business employee license, whether new or
renewal, is fifty dollars ($50.00). These fees are to be used to pay for the
cost of the administration and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04,
12-9-2003)
4-4-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   The city shall regularly inspect the premises of the sexually oriented
business in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. An
applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department to
inspect the premises at any time the establishment is open for business. Such
inspection shall be limited to: visual assessment of the activities conducted
in areas to which patrons have access or are allowed access; requests for
inspection of the licenses required under this chapter; and requests for
identification of those individuals who reasonably appear to be under the age
of eighteen (18).
   B.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a misdemeanor if he/she refuses to promptly permit such lawful
inspection of the premises. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; DENIAL OF RENEWAL:
   A.   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
4-4-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date. When application is made less than thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be
affected.
   B.   When the chief of police denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in the event a licensee appeals
the nonrenewal of a license, the status quo immediately prior to nonrenewal
shall be maintained throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to and including
judicial review on the merits as set forth in section
4-4-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-9: SUSPENSION:
The chief of police shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if he determines that licensee or an employee of licensee has:
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   B.   Operated or performed services in a sexually oriented business while
intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
   C.   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   D.   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in
the event a licensee appeals the suspension of a license, the status quo
immediately prior to suspension shall be maintained throughout the pendency of
the appeal, up to and including judicial review on the merits as set forth in
section
4-4-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   The chief of police shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
section
4-4-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The chief of police shall revoke a license if he determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee was convicted of a "specified criminal activity" on a
charge that was pending prior to the issuance of the license;
      3.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      4.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      5.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      6.   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      7.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any
taxes, fees, fines or penalties relating to the sexually oriented business or
the premises thereon;
      9.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under eighteen
(18) years of age to enter or remain in the establishment;
      10.   A licensee has attempted to sell his business license, or has sold,
assigned or transferred ownership or control of the sexually oriented business
to a nonlicensee of the establishment; or
      11.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person or persons to
engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of the sexually oriented
business.
   C.   When the chief of police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a license for one
year from the date revocation became effective. Notwithstanding the provisions
of this section, in the event the licensee appeals the revocation of a license,
the status quo immediately prior to revocation shall be maintained throughout
the pendency of the appeal, up to and including judicial review on the merits
as set forth in section
4-4-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Within fourteen (14) days of a denial of an initial or renewal application by
the chief of police or city council, or suspension or revocation of a license
by the chief of police, the applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial
review of such action in the district court of the eighteenth judicial district
court, in and for the county of Gallatin. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-12: NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application and set forth
in the operator's license.
   B.   An operator's license shall not be transferable from one location to
another. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-13: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be located in certain districts as
established in title 11 of this code provided that:
   A.   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within:
      1.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of a church, synagogue, mosque,
temple or building which is used primarily for religious worship and related
religious activities;
      2.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of a public or private educational
facility including, but not limited to, child daycare facilities, nursery
school, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools,
intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools,
vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools, special education
schools, junior college and universities; school includes the school ground,
but does not include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only
incidentally as a school; or
      3.   Four hundred fifty feet (450') of another sexually oriented
business.
   B.   A sexually oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, containing another sexually oriented business.
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship, or public or
private elementary or secondary school.
   D.   For the purposes of subsection C of this section, the distance between
any two (2) sexually oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest
exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located. (Ord. 275-A-
03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-14: NONCONFORMING USES; AMORTIZATION:
   A.   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date hereof that is in
violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements of this
chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be
permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two (2) years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty
(30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within three thousand feet
(3,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually
oriented business that was first established and continually operated at a
particular location is the conforming use and the later established business
(es) is nonconforming.
   B.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, synagogue or
regular place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary
school, within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the sexually oriented
business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid business
license, and does not apply when an application for a business license is
submitted after an operator's license has expired or has been revoked. (Ord.
275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an "adult motel" as that term is defined in this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping room
in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   For purposes of subsection B of this section, the terms "rent" or
"subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
   D.   Violation of subsection B of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-
03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   B.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years commits a misdemeanor if
the person appears seminude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the
person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to the public view
or visible by any other person.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or with knowledge, allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an
area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right
of way.
   D.   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-18: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who, with knowledge and intent,
appears in person in a nude or seminude condition in a sexually oriented
business, unless the person is an employee who, while nude or seminude, is at
least ten feet (10') from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two
feet (2') from the floor.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while nude or seminude, to
solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer on the sexually
oriented business premises, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any
gratuity to any employee, while said employee is nude or seminude on the
sexually oriented business premises.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while nude or seminude, to
touch a patron or the clothing of a patron, or for a patron to touch a nude or
seminude employee or the clothing of a nude or seminude employee, while the
employee is on the sexually oriented business premises. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-
9-2003)
4-4-19: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The chief of police may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since said diagram was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the chief of police or his
designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed at all
times. No doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks or
other object(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager's station any portion
of the premises to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted, as designated in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of
this section.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-candles as measured
at the floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person at
any time.
      10.   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
      11.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no more
than one person at a time occupies a viewing booth or room, and to ensure that
no person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing booths
and rooms.
      12.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
      13.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      14.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable materials. No wood,
plywood, composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty
eight inches (48") of the floor.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A14 of this section
commits a misdemeanor if he/she, with knowledge, fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-20: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      2.   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   E.   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-21: SIGNAGE:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any sexually oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the
sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign or one secondary
sign, as provided herein.
   B.   Primary signs shall have no more than two (2) display surfaces. Each
such display surface shall:
      1.   Not contain any flashing lights;
      2.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      3.   Not exceed seventy five (75) square feet in area; and
      4.   Not exceed ten feet (10') in height or ten feet (10') in length.
   C.   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   D.   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   E.   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      1.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      2.   Not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area;
      3.   Not exceed five feet (5') in height and four feet (4') in width; and
      4.   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   F.   The provisions of subsections B1, C and D shall also apply to secondary
signs.
   G.   Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-22: SALE, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of
a sexually oriented business is prohibited.
   B.   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord.
275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-23: PERSONS YOUNGER THAN EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT
REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than eighteen
(18) years of age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually oriented
business at any time the sexually oriented business is open for business.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented business
to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to the
sexually oriented business at all times during such sexually oriented business'
regular business hours. It shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years from entering the sexually oriented
business. It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the
age of eighteen (18) unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
      1.   A valid operator's, commercial operator's or chauffeur's driver's
license; or
      2.   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state of
Montana reflecting that such person is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   C.   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-
03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-24: MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX:
It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of whether
in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage parlor
or any similar type business where any physical contact with the recipient of
such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex. Violation of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-25: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Montana, a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies rated G,
PG, PG-13 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or live
theatrical performances with serious artistic, social or political value, that
depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities,
are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter. (Ord. 275-A-03-04,
12-9-2003)
4-4-26: NOTICES:
   A.   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the chief of police or
any other city office, division, department or other agency under this chapter
to any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be
given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the chief of police. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the chief of police
or his designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the
establishment.
   B.   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the chief of police by
any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the chief of police.
   C.   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the chief of police in
writing of any change of residence or mailing address. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-
2003)
4-4-27: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid operator's license, or in violation of section
4-4-13 of this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense or violation. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-28: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections and clauses shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-
2003)
4-4-29: REPEALER:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
4-4-30: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective thirty (30) days after final passage by the
city council and approved by the mayor. (Ord. 275-A-03-04, 12-9-2003)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Personnel
5-1-2: Volunteer Fire Department; Qualifications
5-1-3: Chief Of Fire Department; Duties
5-1-4: Salaries Of Department Officers
5-1-5: Duties Upon Alarm Of Fire
5-1-6: Unlawful Use Of Fire Apparatus
5-1-7: Fire Equipment Taken Outside City Limits
5-1-8: Assisting Firefighters
5-1-9: Interfering With Officials; Injuring Property
5-1-10: Fire Limits Extended
5-1-11: Penalty
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
From and after the passage and taking effect of this chapter, the fire
department of the city shall consist of a chief of the fire department, and
such honorary members and volunteers' organization as the city council may by
resolution elect or denominate, and the city police shall be ex officio members
of the fire department. There shall not be more than twenty eight (28) total
members according to Montana state law. (1977 Code § 2.30.010; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 311-09, 4-28-2009)
5-1-2: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Name Of Organization: The organization shall be called the Three Forks
volunteer fire department, and shall embrace the entire city.
   B.   Qualifications: The members thereof shall be citizens of the United
States and residents of the city, and all vacancies therein shall be filled by
a majority vote of the members of said organization, and each member shall
continue as such while a resident of the city and have the physical ability to
perform the duties of firefighter, unless sooner removed for cause. (1977 Code
§ 2.30.020; amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES:
   A.   Keep Record Of Members, Inventory Of Property: The chief of the fire
department shall cause to be kept a roll or record of the members thereof,
specifying the time of admission and discharge or resignation of each member,
and a record or inventory of all the city's property entrusted to their care.
(1977 Code § 2.30.030)
   B.   Records Subject To Inspection: Said rolls and records shall at all
times be subject to the inspection of the mayor, fire committee of the city
council or any council member of the city. (1977 Code § 2.30.030; amd. Ord.
311-09, 4-28-2009)
   C.   Annual Report To Council: On or before the first Monday in May of each
year, said chief shall make a report to the city council giving the names of
the members of the department and the officers thereof and the condition and
serviceableness of the fire apparatus and equipment, and such other information
thereof as may be necessary to an intelligent understanding of true conditions
prevailing in said department in order to promote the highest efficiency
therein as may be possible. (1977 Code § 2.30.030)
5-1-4: SALARIES OF DEPARTMENT OFFICERS:
   A.   Chief Of Fire Department: The salary of the chief of the fire
department shall be set annually by the city council. (1977 Code § 2.36.010)
   B.   Secretary Of Fire Department: The salary of the secretary of the fire
department shall be set annually by the city council. (1977 Code § 2.36.020;
amd. 2000 Code)
5-1-5: DUTIES UPON ALARM OF FIRE 1 :
   A.   Extinguishment Of Fire: The fire department under the direction of the
chief or other proper officer shall, upon alarm of fire, proceed with the
utmost dispatch to the place of fire with the fire engine and other apparatus
under its care and there work the same under the direction of the chief or
other officer in charge and shall place and work such engine and apparatus in
the most effective manner until the fire is extinguished.
   B.   Responsibility Of Officer In Charge: The officer in charge shall be
responsible for the working of the fire department, and his orders must be
strictly obeyed by each and every member of the fire department. (1977 Code §
2.30.040; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2-3, rule 17, of this code.
5-1-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take out or remove from the firehouse,
or any rooms where the same are kept, any ladders, trucks, or any other fire
apparatus except in case of fire or under the direction of the chief or other
officer in charge, or to mark, deface, or in any manner injure any of the fire
apparatus used by the fire department. (1977 Code § 2.30.050)
5-1-7: FIRE EQUIPMENT TAKEN OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any officer connected with the fire department to
suffer or allow the engine, apparatus or equipment to be taken beyond the city
limits, except for training or mutual aid, and it shall be unlawful for any
person having charge of any engine or other apparatus to suffer or allow the
same to be applied to the private use, without the permission of the fire
chief. In no event will the city be left without proper protective equipment.
(1977 Code § 2.30.060)
5-1-8: ASSISTING FIREFIGHTERS:
In the case of a fire, the chief of the fire department or such officer who may
be in charge, or command, may prescribe limits in the vicinity of a fire within
which no person, except those residing therein, members of the fire department,
or police officers or those admitted by the chief of the fire department or
officer in charge or command or his subordinates, shall be permitted to come.
The mayor, chief of the fire department or other officer in charge or command
at any fire, when in his judgment the same is necessary, may call upon any
person present to assist the firefighters in their duties, or to assist in
extinguishing any fire, and any such person so called upon who shall refuse or
neglect to assist, unless physically unable, shall be punished as hereinafter
prescribed. (1977 Code § 2.30.070; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
5-1-9: INTERFERING WITH OFFICIALS; INJURING PROPERTY:
   A.   Interfering With Officers Or Firefighters: It shall be unlawful for any
person wilfully to interfere with any officer or firefighter, in the
performance of his duty, at, going to, or returning from any fire, or while
attending to his duties as a member of the fire department.
   B.   Driving Across Fire Hose; Injuring Alarm Equipment: It shall be
unlawful for any person wilfully or negligently to drive any vehicle across,
along or upon any hose when the same is in use for any purpose, or wilfully
cut, deface, destroy or injure any telegraph wire, or pole or signal box used
for the purpose of giving an alarm of fire, or any fire alarm telephone or any
property belonging to the fire department. (1977 Code § 2.30.080; amd. 2000
Code)
5-1-10: FIRE LIMITS EXTENDED:
The fire limits in the city are hereby extended so as to include and embrace
block numbers 4, 5, 6, 13, 14, 16, 17, 24, 25, 28, 29, 47 and 48, in the city.
The following boundaries of said blocks shall be said fire limits: on the
north, Neal Street; on the east, First Avenue East; on the south, Grove Street
and on the west, First Avenue West; and on the northwest, Railway Avenue. (1977
Code § 7.02.010)
5-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter will be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 2.30.090; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Explosive Powder Over Fifty Pounds
5-2-2: Gasoline Storage
5-2-3: Coal-Oil And Kerosene
5-2-4: Giant Powder And Dynamite
5-2-5: Liquid Petroleum
5-2-6: Penalty
5-2-1: EXPLOSIVE POWDER OVER FIFTY POUNDS:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, dealer, or person to have, store or keep
at any time at his ordinary place of business, or elsewhere within one mile of
the City limits, any quantity of any explosive powder greater than fifty (50)
pounds, and that in tin or iron cases or canisters, nor shall any such
merchant, dealer, or person have, store or keep any greater quantity of Giant
powder caps more than two thousand (2,000), nor of any other inflammable or
explosive materials in large quantities or in unsafe vessels or packages. (1977
Code § 7.04.010; amd. 2000 Code)
5-2-2: GASOLINE STORAGE:
   A.   Aboveground: It shall be unlawful to store aboveground or to have on
any premises or in any place of business in the City within the fire limits any
quantity of gasoline greater than ten (10) gallons, except that it may be kept
in isolated buildings or tanks far enough removed from any habitable building
to be safe against possible injury to occupants of adjoining buildings and
premises. (1977 Code § 7.04.020)
   B.   Over Five Gallons: It shall be unlawful to have, keep or store in any
place of business or otherwise, within the fire limits, gasoline in any
quantity over five (5) gallons, except that it shall be stored in metal tanks
buried at least three feet (3') underground, or in fireproof structures outside
of any building in which any person works or sleeps. The quantity stored in
such tanks or fireproof structures on any one lot shall be limited to two
hundred (200) gallons for automobile garages and sixty (60) gallons for stores.
No gasoline storage tanks shall be located under any sidewalk nor in any street
or alley except by permission of the City Council. (1977 Code § 7.04.030)
5-2-3: COAL-OIL AND KEROSENE:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, dealer, or person to have, keep or store
in his ordinary place of business, within the fire limits, at any time, any
coal-oil, kerosene, petroleum or any inflammable oils or any mixtures thereof
in quantities greater than one hundred (100) gallons, and that in original
packages or in an iron receptacle, tank or vessel, or one so constructed and of
such material as to render said coal-oil, kerosene, petroleum or any
inflammable oils or any mixtures thereof safe from danger of igniting,
combustion or explosion. (1977 Code § 7.04.040)
5-2-4: GIANT POWDER AND DYNAMITE:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, dealer, or person to have, store or keep
in his ordinary place of business or elsewhere within the City limits or within
one mile of the City limits any Giant powder or dynamite. (1977 Code §
7.04.050)
5-2-5: LIQUID PETROLEUM:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, dealer, or person to have, keep or store
in his ordinary place of business, any propane, butane or other liquid
petroleum products or inflammable mixtures in large quantities or in unsafe
vessels or containers or adjacent to habitable buildings so as to assure
against possible injury to occupants of adjoining buildings and premises. (1977
Code § 7.04.060)
5-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person, merchant or dealer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 7.04.070; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Burning Prohibited
5-3-2: Exceptions; Open Burning
5-3-3: Penalty
5-3-1: BURNING PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation shall ignite, cause to be ignited, permit to be
ignited, allow or maintain any open fire within the city limits. Burning of
household garbage, food waste, or discarded materials is prohibited. (Ord. 365-
2016, 8-9-2016)
5-3-2: EXCEPTIONS; OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Ban On Burning: The mayor, after seeking advice of the fire chief, may
declare a ban on burning within the municipal limits of the city of Three
Forks. Such ban shall continue for the duration of the period and may be lifted
by the mayor. The mayor shall provide the council with the information
supporting the declared ban on burning and shall inform the council when such a
ban is lifted. This ban shall apply to all exceptions listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 358-15, 7-28-2015)
   B.   City Authorization: Open burning of the following types may be allowed,
in compliance with fire department guidelines. All fires must be attended at
all times. (Ord. 365-2016, 8-9-2016)
      1.   Bonfires: Ceremonial or controlled bonfires with the approval of the
fire department and the city council;
      2.   Training Fires: Fires set for the purpose of a bona fide instruction
and training of public, institutional or industrial employees in the methods of
firefighting. (Ord. 358-15, 7-28-2015)
   C.   Certain Burning Allowed:
      1.   Open burning for campfires and outdoor cooking is allowed.
      2.   Burning of leaves and small branches is allowed in burn barrels or
fire structures not exceeding forty eight inches (48") in diameter, or in small
debris piles not exceeding thirty six inches (36") in diameter, if done in a
safe manner. (Ord. 365-2016, 8-9-2016)
   D.   County Permit: Any burning allowed pursuant to and with the possession
of a Gallatin County burning permit. (Ord. 358-15, 7-28-2015)
5-3-3: PENALTY:
The penalty for a violation of any provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 259-99, 7-13-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definition
5-4-2: Application Of Chapter
5-4-3: Contracted Services
5-4-4: Assessment And Payment Of Costs
5-4-5: Containers Required; Specifications
5-4-6: Garbage Deposits; Property Owner Permission Required
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the word "garbage" as used in this Chapter
means all refuse, animal, plant and vegetable matter, ashes, floor sweepings,
wastepaper, and the like; but shall not be construed to include animal or
poultry manure, basement, foundation, or lawn excavations, or loose earth from
excavations of any kind, or trees, except small prunings, or debris from the
construction or wreckage of buildings; but this definition shall not be held to
exclude as garbage anything which is commonly known or accepted as such even
though not specified herein, and in case of doubt or dispute, the City Council
shall decide such dispute and its decision shall be final and conclusive. (1977
Code § 7.08.010)
5-4-2: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this Chapter shall extend and be applicable to all places and
premises within the corporate limits of the City where garbage accumulates.
Nothing in this Section, nor in this Chapter contained, shall be construed to
afford or grant immunity to any owner, operator or occupant of any premises
within the corporate limits of the City, without regard to the purpose for
which used, from the duty to keep the same free from unsanitary, unsafe, or
unsightly accumulations of "garbage", as defined in Section
5-4-1 of this Chapter, or which is offensive to the neighborhood as a nuisance,
nor to disregard or violate any other provision of this Chapter, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter for the protection and the
safety of the life, property, and health of the citizens of the City; nor shall
any such other chapter be considered or regarded as repealed or modified by
anything in this Chapter contained unless clearly inconsistent herewith and
unless herein expressly so provided; but all other such chapters shall be and
are continued in full force and effect and shall be read and construed,
harmonized therewith if it be possible; nor shall any provision of this Chapter
be construed as granting immunity or exemption from prosecution for violation
of its provision of this Chapter for its observance and enforcement and to make
it effective as a police regulation of the City. (1977 Code § 7.08.020)
5-4-3: CONTRACTED SERVICES:
The collection, removal and disposition of garbage in the City shall be done
and performed under the supervision, direction and control of contracted
services, and in strict conformity with the provisions of this Chapter, and
with the additional rules and regulations that may be made from time to time by
the City Council. (1977 Code § 7.08.040; amd. 2000 Code)
5-4-4: ASSESSMENT AND PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Assessment Against Real Property: The cost and expense of collecting
and disposing of garbage under the provisions of this Chapter and of rules and
regulations made pursuant thereto, including the cost of procuring, collecting
and hauling equipment, and the maintenance, repair and replacement thereof as
required; of salaries, wages, stationery and office supplies and office
equipment, books of account and all incidental costs and expense, shall be
specially assessed against the real property serviced and from which garbage is
deposited, collected and removed, except as otherwise herein provided.
   B.   Residences:
      1.   Single-Family: The basis and unit for such assessment of residence
premises shall be a residence occupied and used for residential purposes by one
person or one family, and charges and assessments for services rendered thereto
shall be made as the rules and regulations of the City Council made pursuant
hereto shall provide on the basis of actual cost.
      2.   Multiple-Family: A residence which is occupied by more than one
family shall be assessed more than the unit charge, and adjustment of charges
and assessments above and on the basis of the unit price for a multiple-family
dwelling shall be made as the rules and regulations shall provide and as
experience shall show to be fair and equitable on the basis of actual cost,
above the unit price, of the service rendered.
   C.   Businesses: When garbage removal service is rendered to business and
professional concerns, the charge for such service shall be at actual cost as
computed by the city council under its rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Special Assessments; Lien: All special assessments made and levied
under this chapter shall be made and levied and collected in the same manner,
so far as practicable, as are other special assessments and levies of the city
and shall be a lien against the property against which they are severally
assessed and levied until paid and discharged, and shall be subject to the same
penalty for delinquency in payment when due and payable, as are other special
assessments and levies made by the city and as are authorized by the laws of
the state.
   E.   Disposition Of Monies; Garbage Fund: All special assessments and
levies, and all other money collected, received or paid under the provisions of
this chapter shall be kept in a separate fund to be known as the garbage fund
and shall be paid out only on warrants drawn against such fund and signed as
are other warrants of the city for the disbursements of its funds, and only
upon claims duly executed, presented, audited and allowed, all as required by
law. (1977 Code § 7.08.050)
5-4-5: CONTAINERS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Containers Required: The owner, operator and occupant for human
habitation, and every place of business within the city limits shall provide,
or cause to be provided, and at all times keep or cause to be kept within a
container, including trailers, for the deposit therein of garbage.
   B.   Container Specifications: Containers may be of any size, similar to
service providers' residential and commercial containers, so long as they have
a suitable fly tight cover to prevent animal and insect infiltration, spillage
and/or blowing of garbage, and must be constructed and at all times maintained
so as to prevent leakage. Except for during scheduled pickup times by a
contracted service provider, containers must be stored completely on private
property.
   C.   Number Of Containers: As many containers shall be provided on any
premises as is necessary and sufficient for the deposit of the garbage
accumulating thereon.
   D.   Requirement for Dumping: Contracted service providers have scheduled
weekly pickups for hauling garbage to the landfill. Bi-weekly pickups are also
available. Owners, operators and occupants of both residential and commercial
habitations must also haul garbage to a permitted sanitary a landfill no less
than twice per calendar month to ensure public health and safety is met. (1977
Code § 7.08.030; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 336-13, 9-10-2013; Ord. 401-2023, 3-14-
2023)
5-4-6: GARBAGE DEPOSITS; PROPERTY OWNER PERMISSION REQUIRED:
Deposit of garbage upon premises or property of another without permission is
prohibited. The deposit of garbage upon the premises or property of another,
within the corporate limits of the city, without the express permission and
consent of the owner or occupant of such other property or premises, is hereby
forbidden and prohibited, and any such depositing shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter, and upon conviction in the city court, shall subject the
offender to the penalties provided for violations hereof. (1977 Code §
7.08.060; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 401-2023, 3-14-2023)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty in the city court of a violation of this chapter, or
any rule or regulation made and promulgated pursuant thereto, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 7.08.070; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WEEDS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Cutting Or Removing Required
5-5-3: Noncompliance
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                Noxious weeds must be completely removed as per the definition
NOXIOUS WEEDS:  and guidance of Title 7 Local Government, Chapter 22 Weed and
                Pest Control, Part 21 County Weed Control, MCA.
                Any unchecked or overgrown vegetation that is unsightly,
                troublesome or a useless weed including a plant of little
                value, especially one that is uncared for, growing plentifully
NUISANCE WEEDS: and detrimentally in a garden or lawn, or vegetation growth
                that is destructive and detrimental to an agricultural
                interest, is not grown for the purpose of landscaping or food
                production, or any similar unwanted vegetation or grass over
                six inches (6") in height.
 
(Ord. 347-13, 11-26-2013; amd. Ord. 397-2022, 6-28-2022)
5-5-2: CUTTING OR REMOVING REQUIRED:
All persons are hereby required to remove all weeds from said premises under
their control and to the center of the street or alley along, in front of, or
abutting on said premises and to keep the same free from weeds. (Ord. 347-13,
11-26-2013)
5-5-3: NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Notice of Violation: Upon its own initiative, or having received a
written complaint, the city shall inspect the subject property to ensure a
violation exists and notify the property owner(s) or agent of the owner(s). The
notice of violation shall be made by posting the notice on the premises, or by
mailing a copy to the property by first-class mail.
   Notice shall include:
      1.   A statement specifically describing the violation of this chapter;
      2.   Geographic location of the area of noncompliance by legal
description or other reasonably identifiable description;
      3.   Specify that the owner(s) or agent of owner(s) has a time limit as
defined in this chapter from the date of such notice to bring the property into
compliance;
      4.   Advise the owner(s) or agent of owner(s) that if noncompliance is
not resolved by the date specified the city may enter upon the property and
institute appropriate control measures;
      5.   That the owner bears the cost for removal if performed by the city.
   B.   Time Limit for Removal: The property owner(s), or agent of the owner
(s), has a period of seven (7) days to comply with this chapter.
   C.   Violation and Procedure in Cases of Noncompliance; Corrective Action: A
reasonable period of time, but not more than seven (7) days, may be provided to
the property owner(s), or agent of owner(s), to initiate compliance procedures.
The property owner(s), or agent of owner(s), has the right to request an
informal hearing with the city officer, employee, or agent, to enter into an
agreement for a corrective action plan to bring the property into compliance.
If such a request is made, it shall not extend the seven (7) day period within
which compliance procedures must be initiated. If corrective action is not
taken by the property owner(s), or agent of owner(s), within the timeframe
specified, or agreed upon, the city may enter upon the property and institute
appropriate control measures.
   D.   Removal by the City; Invoice to Property Owner: After the period of
seven (7) days, the city shall immediately take appropriate control measures.
Upon completion of such work, the city shall submit an invoice to the property
owner(s), or agent of owner(s), in the amount for the cutting/removal of the
nuisance weeds, plus an administrative fee, and penalty, as set by the City
Council via resolution. All fees are intended to pay for the labor,
administration, fuel, equipment, or contracted services performed on behalf of
the property owner(s) or agent.
   Invoices must specify:
      1.   The location and work performed by or on behalf of the city;
      2.   Cost of work performed by or on behalf of the city;
      3.   Administrative fee;
      4.   Payment due date of thirty (30) days from the date invoice is sent;
and
      5.   That a penalty shall be assessed on the property for every one (1)
month outstanding up to the time the City Council assesses the cost against the
property.
   E.   Assessment: If the bill is not paid when due, such costs, including
administrative fee and penalty, can be assessed against the property in any
lawful manner to collect the outstanding balance including placing a special
assessment levied against the property on which the nuisance weeds were
destroyed, and collected in the same manner as other special assessments by the
city.
      1.   Annually the city shall prepare a list of all lots, tracts, and
parcels of real property within the city from which nuisance weeds were cut/
removed by the city and for which such charges and penalties have not yet been
paid. The list shall include the following:
         a.   Owner's name as shown on the tax rolls and common address if
known;
         b.   Tax Code number of the property;
         c.   Legal description of the property;
         d.   Cost of the nuisance weed removal, administrative fee, and
penalty or penalties.
      2.   The assessment list shall be incorporated into a special assessment
resolution which shall be presented to the City Council. After passage of the
resolution, the assessments stated therein together with administrative costs
and penalty shall constitute a special tax as provided in 7-22-4101, MCA, and a
lien placed on the real property shows on the assessment list. A copy of the
resolution shall be certified to the official collecting the city's taxes and
assessment. (Ord. 347-13, 11-26-2013; amd. Ord. 397-2022, 6-28-2022)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, WRECKED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Storage And Accumulation Restricted
5-6-2: Notice To Owner Of Vehicle Or Land
5-6-3: Public Notice When Owner Unknown
5-6-4: Removal Of Vehicle By City
5-6-5: Authority To Contract For Removal
5-6-6: Penalty
5-6-1: STORAGE AND ACCUMULATION RESTRICTED:
   A.   Storage Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful to park, store, or
leave, or permit parking or storing of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle
of any kind or part thereof, for a period of time in excess of five (5) days,
within the city limits, which is in rusted, wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled or inoperative, or abandoned condition, whether attended or not,
unless same is completely enclosed within a building or unless it is in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed for same.
(Ord. 242, 12-10-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Removal Required: The accumulation and storage of
one or more of such vehicles or parts thereof as hereinbefore defined, on
private property or public property, shall constitute a nuisance, detrimental
to the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of the city, and it shall be
the duty of the registered owner of such vehicle or part thereof, and it shall
also be the duty of the owner of the private property or the owner of the
private property adjacent to the public property, or lessee or other person in
possession of private property adjacent to the public property upon which such
vehicle or part thereof is located, to remove same from the city limits, or to
have the same housed in a building where it will not be visible from the
street. (Ord. 242, 12-10-1996)
5-6-2: NOTICE TO OWNER OF VEHICLE OR LAND:
   A.   Issuance Of Notice; Time Limit For Removal:
      1.   It shall be the duty of a police officer to give written notice to
the registered owner of any motor vehicle or part thereof which is in violation
of section
5-6-1 of this chapter, or to give such notice to the owner or lessee of private
land upon which the motor vehicle or part thereof is situated, giving notice
that the vehicle or part thereof violates section
 5-6-1 of this chapter, and demanding that the motor vehicle or parts thereof
be removed from the city limits within five (5) days from the time of service
of notice, or that within five (5) days same may be housed in a building where
it will not be visible from the street. (1977 Code § 9.38.020; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
      2.   The notice may be given by personal service or by certified mail,
with a return receipt requested.
   B.   Evidence Of Receipt Of Notice: Written notice required by this section
shall be deemed to have been given, i.e., constructive notice, when the
registered owner of the motor vehicle or parts thereof, or the owner, lessee or
other person in possession of private property concerned herein either:
      1.   Refuses to accept the prepaid United States mail certified letter
from the city and letter is returned from the post office marked "refused"; or
      2.   The person to be notified is present in the city but the
notification letter is returned marked "unclaimed" by the post office, in which
event notice by the city may be made by affixing the letter in a conspicuous
place at the main entrance or to the front door of the residence of such
person. (1977 Code § 9.38.020)
5-6-3: PUBLIC NOTICE WHEN OWNER UNKNOWN:
   A.   Posting Of Public Notice: After diligent search and inquiry by a police
officer, no written notice as above shall be required where the registered
owner of such vehicle or parts thereof or the owner of the private property or
lessee or other person in possession of private property upon which such
vehicle or parts thereof is located cannot be found or determined, but instead
a public notice shall be posted by the city clerk in three (3) public places in
the city for five (5) consecutive days. (1977 Code § 9.38.030; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
   B.   Contents Of Notice: Such public notice shall include, among other
information, "Public Notice: To Whom It May Concern", date, legal description
of the sites, address of same, a full description of the motor vehicle or parts
thereof, when available, the last known owner of the vehicle and/or owner of
the realty or last known person in possession of the situs and the date from or
approximate period of time during which the nuisance has existed. (1977 Code §
9.38.030)
5-6-4: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY CITY:
   A.   Assessment And Collection Of Costs: In the event that any of the
aforesaid persons, whether an individual, firm or corporation, fails, neglects
or refuses to remove the abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicle or parts thereof
or house same in the building as provided in subsection
 5-6-1B of this chapter, and abate the nuisance after the required notice, the
city, its agent or contractor may remove the vehicle or parts thereof at the
current towing and storage rate as determined by the city; which cost shall, if
in the best interests of the city as determined by the city mayor, to be
collected from the registered owner of such vehicle or parts thereof or the
owner of the private property or lessee or other person in possession of
private property upon which such vehicle or parts thereof is located. (1977
Code § 9.38.040; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   City Ownership: Ownership of any vehicles or parts thereof removed by
the city, its agent or contractor shall, upon such removal, be vested in the
city, its agent or contractor, as applicable. (1977 Code § 9.38.040)
5-6-5: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Junk Dealer:
      1.   City Authority: The city mayor is authorized to enter into a written
agreement with a duly licensed junk dealer for the removal of abandoned,
wrecked or junked vehicles or parts thereof under this section wherein the
consideration for the services of the junk dealer shall be the vehicle or parts
thereof at no expense to the city.
      2.   Liability Insurance Requirement: The junk dealer, before entering
into contract with the city or being appointed its agent or contractor in
reference to section
5-6-4 of this chapter and this section, shall furnish evidence of public
liability insurance to adequately protect such agent or contractor and the city
deemed reasonable in the opinion of the city mayor.
   B.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: In the event a qualified and suitable junk
dealer is not available to contract with or act as the city's agent or
contractor as provided herein, the city mayor is authorized to contract with
the lowest responsible bidder to provide for the removal from private property
of abandoned, wrecked or junked vehicles or parts thereof under section
5-6-4 of this chapter. (1977 Code § 9.38.050)
5-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, unless
otherwise specifically designated in this chapter, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 9.38.060; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 7
COMMUNITY DECAY AND BEAUTIFICATION
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Purpose And Governing Body
5-7-3: Prohibitions
5-7-4: Shielding
5-7-5: Corrective Action
5-7-6: Enforcement And Penalties
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated below:
   ACCUMULATE: To store, gather, collect, heap or pile up.
   AGRICULTURE: The art or science of cultivating the ground, including
harvesting of crops and rearing and management of livestock, tillage,
husbandry, farming, horticulture and forestry; the science and art of the
production of plants and animals useful to man.
   COMMUNITY DECAY: A public nuisance created by allowing rubble, debris, junk
or refuse to accumulate resulting in conditions that are injurious to health,
indecent, offensive to the senses or which obstruct the free use of property so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, including,
but not limited to: bricks, wood, tires, boxes, dirt, demolition wastes,
machine parts. It must affect more than one person and/or establishment.
"Community decay" does not include:
   A.   Normal farming, ranching or other agricultural operations, or apply to
a farm, ranch or other agricultural facility, or any appurtenances thereof,
during the course of its normal operation;
   B.   Persons servicing, manufacturing or processing materials, goods or
products on lots in public view, so long as the materials used in the normal
operation of the business are neatly stacked or piled;
   C.   Normal residential maintenance or landscaping.
   DEPARTMENT: The city office that will respond to community decay complaints
including the police, city planning staff, city-county health departments or
any other office designated by the Three Forks city council.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Three Forks city council.
   NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to
the sense, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or which unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use in the customary manner, of any public park,
square, street, sidewalk or highway. A nuisance does not include anything which
is done or maintained under authority of a statute, nor does it include the
normal operations of an agricultural or farming operation that has been in
operation longer than the complaining residents and/or establishment.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation,
city, town or any other entity, whether organized for profit or not.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal 1 .
   PUBLIC VIEW: Any area visible from a point up to six feet (6') above the
surface of the center of a public highway as defined in section 60-1-103(22),
Montana Code Annotated.
   SHIELDING: Refers to fencing or other manmade barriers to conceal community
decay from public view. It also refers to natural barriers. Any shielding
barrier must conform to all city zoning, planning, building and protective
covenant provisions. Any shielding is to be of sufficient height so that none
of the violations on the premises are visible to public view. This is not
intended to require that permanent buildings, other structures, utility poles
or any farm buildings, ranch buildings or other agricultural facilities or
appurtenances are to be included in this and be shielded.
   WEEDS: Any unchecked or overgrown vegetation that is unsightly, troublesome,
useless or noxious as defined by the state of Montana department of agriculture
and the United States department of agriculture - national resource
conservation service's category 1 weeds for Montana, and includes a plant of
little value, especially one growing plentifully and detrimentally in a garden
or lawn, or vegetation growth that has been declared noxious, destructive and
detrimental to an agricultural interest, or any similar unwanted vegetation or
grass over six inches (6") in height. Noxious weeds must be completely removed
as per the USDA-NRCS requirements. (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009; amd. Ord. 328-
11, 3-27-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 27-30-102.
5-7-2: PURPOSE AND GOVERNING BODY:
Pursuant to section 7-5-4104, Montana Code Annotated, the purpose of this
chapter is to regulate, control and prohibit conditions that contribute to
community decay on or adjacent to all public roadways within Three Forks.
The governing body to administer this chapter is the Three Forks city council
through its designated department(s). (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009)
5-7-3: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter to own or maintain any public nuisance
that results in community decay visible from a public roadway.
No person shall accumulate rubble, debris, or refuse that, upon investigation,
is deemed to be a "public nuisance" as defined by this chapter. Material that
may constitute community decay includes, but is not limited to, bricks,
concrete, wood, cardboard, paper, pallets, tires, dead animals/animal parts,
dirt, demolition waste, junk vehicles, wrecked trailers, iron, metal, machine
parts, appliances and barrels. (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009)
Property owners are responsible for all vegetation on their property as well as
the property that extends from their property line to the center of the street
(s) and the center of the alley. (Ord. 328-11, 3-27-2012)
No person(s) shall allow projecting objects from their property onto or over
the street right of way, alleys or sidewalks.
Any awning, structure, sign or branches of any tree or shrub must be built to
or trimmed to the following height clearances:
   A.   Seven feet (7') over any sidewalk or street parking area.
   B.   Fourteen feet (14') over any street driving area, this is fourteen feet
(14') from either side of the street's centerline.
   C.   Fourteen feet (14') clearance over any alleyway. (Ord. 327-11, 4-10-
2012)
5-7-4: SHIELDING:
The maintenance of materials that would be considered a public nuisance under
this chapter shall be lawful if such materials are shielded from public view in
accordance with the following standards:
   A.   All plans for shielding shall be approved by the planning and zoning
enforcement agent prior to commencing construction of shielding.
   B.   When fences are used for shielding, the boards may be spaced and/or
slanted to reduce wind load. The space between boards when viewed from
broadside may not be more than 1.5 inches wide. Chainlink fences with standard
fiberglass or similar inserts are acceptable, provided the gap between adjacent
inserts does not exceed 1.5 inches.
   C.   No more than one of the approved shielding materials shall be used on
any one side of a shielding fence.
   D.   The fencing is to be maintained by the property owner or occupant in a
neat and workmanlike manner and shall be replaced and/or repaired when
necessary.
   E.   Screening with trees and shrubs must provide a similar degree of
shielding at all times of the year. Trees and shrubs may best be used in
conjunction with other shielding materials. A berm may also be used, provided
the slopes of the berm are covered and graded smooth, with not less than three
inches (3") of topsoil, and seeded with a weed free seed mix.
   F.   Any shielding must conform to all city zoning, planning, building code
and protective covenant provisions applicable to the property and shall be
sufficient height that none of the nuisance materials on the premises are
visible to public view.
   G.   The material being shielded may not present a threat to public health
and safety. (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009)
5-7-5: CORRECTIVE ACTION:
   A.   Upon its own initiative or within fourteen (14) days of receiving a
completed complaint form (signed by 2 or more people) that a condition or
community decay exists, the city shall inspect the subject property to
determine whether there is a violation of this chapter. Complaint forms are
available at the Three Forks city office (exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein). (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009)
   B.   If it is determined that this chapter has been violated, the city shall
notify the owner, manager, lessee of the property, or other responsible party
in writing, delivered by any reasonable means. A notice of violation is not a
citation but is an alert to the property owner, manager, lessee or other
responsible party that the property is out of compliance. Receipt of the
corrective action, or submission of a corrective action plan, shall be returned
to the city within fourteen (14) days.
The notice of violation shall:
      1.   Include a statement specifically describing the violation; (Ord.
326-11, 3-27-2012)
      2.   Specify that the owner, manager, lessee or other responsible party
has fourteen (14) days from the date of such notice to bring the property into
compliance;
      3.   Advise the owner, manager, lessee or other responsible party that if
the violation is not resolved, they may be issued a citation for a municipal
infraction. (Ord. 328-11, 3-27-2012)
5-7-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Municipal Infraction: A violation of this chapter shall constitute a
civil violation of this code as prescribed by Montana Code Annotated 7-1-4150.
This civil offense is punishable by a civil penalty of not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation or if the infraction is a repeat
offense, a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
repeat violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense and
be punishable as such. (Ord. 328-11, 3-27-2012)
   B.   Injunction: Action under section
5-7-5 of this chapter does not bar enforcement of this chapter or orders issued
under it by injunction or other appropriate remedy. (Ord. 307-08-09, 3-10-2009)
   C.   Enforcement: Proceedings for the enforcement of a municipal infraction
citation issued under this chapter shall be brought pursuant to the provisions
of 7-1-4151 Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 328-11, 3-27-2012)
It is the intent of this section, fines received ultimately be distributed to
the city for costs of the enforcement of this chapter. Any recovery of costs of
abatement shall be distributed to the fund paying the cost of the abatement.
(Ord. 314-09-10, 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 8
THREE FORKS PONDS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Certain Vehicles Prohibited
5-8-2: Overnight Camping Prohibited
5-8-3: Penalty
5-8-1: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It shall be illegal to operate any boat, snowmobile, jet boat, ski boat, or
other similar watercraft or snow machines on any of the Three Forks ponds when
powered by any internal combustion engine, fuel powered engine or any other
engine. Battery operated motors propelling watercraft are permitted on the
middle and east ponds. (Ord. 265-2001, 8-13-2001)
5-8-2: OVERNIGHT CAMPING PROHIBITED:
In the developed parking areas and undeveloped areas upon which any vehicle,
trailer, camper or recreational vehicle may be stopped, camping or overnight
parking between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. is prohibited. (Ord. 367-2016, 10-11-2016)
5-8-3: PENALTY:
Upon a first conviction, the fine shall be no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon each subsequent
conviction within a period of two (2) years, the fine shall be increased one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each conviction. In addition, upon conviction the
owner or operator so cited shall pay all court costs and other costs associated
with processing the complaint. (Ord. 265-2001, 8-13-2001; amd. Ord. 367-2016,
10-11-2016)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Arrest For Violations
6-1-2: Examination Of Public Places
6-1-3: Examine Entrances And Exits Of Public Buildings
6-1-1: ARREST FOR VIOLATIONS:
It shall be the duty of police officers to make complaint before the city judge
against all persons known to him to be guilty of a violation of the criminal
laws of the state or ordinances of the city; to arrest and take into custody,
with or without warrant or process, any person who shall be found in any street
or alley or in any other public place, in a state of gross intoxication, or
doing any act in violation of the laws of the state or ordinances of the city;
and to bring such person before the city judge, or place him or her in the
county jail, to be dealt with according to law; to execute all orders or
processes issued to him by the mayor, city court or city council, or other
officer having power to issue the same and make due return thereof. (1977 Code
§ 2.28.010; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
6-1-2: EXAMINATION OF PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be the duty of police officers in and for the city at all times, when
on duty, to enter all public places of business when open to the general public
and make a thorough and complete search and examination thereof for the purpose
of determining whether there is any violation of the ordinance prohibiting
nuisances, of the ordinance regulating the storage of explosives, kerosene,
coal oil, petroleum and dynamite and all other ordinances providing for the
protection and preservation of the public health, public morals and guarding
the public safety. (1977 Code § 2.28.020; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-
10-2009)
6-1-3: EXAMINE ENTRANCES AND EXITS OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be the duty of police officers at all times, when on duty, to make a
careful examination of the front and rear entrances to all public places of
businesses after the closing hour of business for the day and when closed at
any other time to the general public, and determine from said examination
whether said entrances are securely locked, bolted and fastened, and to examine
all windows in said public places of businesses that can be reached from the
street by extending hand. (1977 Code § 2.28.030; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-
10, 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Disturbing Peace And Quiet
6-2-2: Permitting Any Disturbances
6-2-3: Public Safety; Bonfires, Fireworks, Guns
6-2-4: Bows And Arrows; Other Projectiles
6-2-5: Abandoned Refrigerators, Iceboxes
6-2-6: Penalty
6-2-7: Urination Or Defecation In Public Prohibited
6-2-1: DISTURBING PEACE AND QUIET:
No person within the city, or within three (3) miles of the city limits shall
knowingly disturb the peace and quiet of any streets, neighborhood, family or
person, by loud, tumultuous noise, or by tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by
using offensively loud radio or television sets, or by threatening, quarreling,
scolding, hallooing, hollering, challenging to fight or fighting, or by
cursing, swearing, uttering obscene, profane vulgar or indecent language in the
presence of any person, or by committing any obscene, vulgar, indecent or lewd
act in any public place, or in view of any person. (1977 Code § 9.16.010; amd.
2000 Code)
6-2-2: PERMITTING ANY DISTURBANCES:
Any person knowingly permitting any disturbance described in the foregoing
section, upon premises owned or occupied by him or her, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1977 Code § 9.16.020; amd. 2000 Code)
6-2-3: PUBLIC SAFETY; BONFIRES, FIREWORKS, GUNS:
   A.   Bonfires 1 ; Fireworks Permit: It shall be unlawful within the
corporate limits of the city for any person to build bonfires in any public
street, square, or on any vacant lot, or explode, set off or fire, within said
limits, any firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, toy pistols, or any fireworks and
explosives whatever, without special permit therefor from the mayor. The mayor
permits legal (state and federal) fireworks on a yearly basis. (1977 Code §
9.12.010)
   B.   Guns Fired Within Corporate Limits:
      1.   Prohibition: No person shall hereafter wilfully shoot or fire off a
gun, pistol or any firearm within the corporate limits of the city, except as
provided in subsection B2 of this section. (1977 Code § 9.12.020)
      2.   Exception: Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to embrace
the firing of a gun, pistol or other firearm when done in the lawful defense of
the person, property or family, or in the necessary enforcement of the law.
(1977 Code § 9.12.030)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
6-2-4: BOWS AND ARROWS; OTHER PROJECTILES:
No person shall hereafter wilfully shoot any arrow or other dangerous
projectile through the use of any weapon unless such arrow or other projectile
is shot at a target with a backstop of sufficient density to stop the arrow or
projectile. The minimum dimensions of the backstop shall be four feet (4') in
width and four feet (4') in length. (Ord. 205, 6-11-1985; amd. 2000 Code)
6-2-5: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOXES:
   A.   Leaving Appliances Outside: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to leave outside of any building or dwelling in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight door or
lock which may not be released for opening from the inside of said icebox,
refrigerator or container. (1977 Code § 7.12.010)
   B.   Removing Snap Locks Or Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to leave outside of any building or dwelling in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight snap lock
or other device thereon without first removing the said snap lock or other
doors from said icebox, refrigerator or container. (1977 Code § 7.12.020)
6-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2000 Code)
6-2-7: URINATION OR DEFECATION IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on public property
or public right of way, or on private property open to public view, except in
restrooms and facilities provided for such purpose. The penalty for any person
violating these provisions is described in section
6-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 273, 6-8-2003)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Short Title
6-3-2: Purpose
6-3-3: Scope
6-3-4: Definitions
6-3-5: Curfew For Minors
6-3-6: Exceptions
6-3-7: Curfew Hours
6-3-8: Parental Responsibility
6-3-9: Law Enforcement Officers, Duty
6-3-10: Penalties
6-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CURFEW ORDINANCE. (Ord.
234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Establish Restrictions: The purpose of this chapter is to establish
reasonable restrictions upon the time of day during which minors shall be
allowed on any of the streets or other public places of the city. Such
restrictions are enacted to further the general welfare of the community and
specifically to further the following community interests:
      1.   The protection of the younger children in the city from each other
and from other persons on the street during the nighttime hours;
      2.   The enforcement of parental control of and responsibility for their
children;
      3.   The protection of the public from nocturnal mischief by minors;
      4.   The reduction in the incidence of juvenile criminal activity; and
      5.   Prevent exposure to and the possibility of being led into
involvement with crimes of violence, destruction and/or self- destruction.
   B.   General Police Powers: These restrictions are enacted pursuant to the
general police and other powers granted to self-government power local
governments. (Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-3: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to apply to all minors under the
age of eighteen (18) years and to any parent of any minor person under the age
of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CITY: The local government of the city of Three Forks, Montana, and all of
the area located within its geographical boundaries, and also the pond area and
publicly owned property outside the city limits.
   CURFEW: A regulation establishing restrictions upon the time of day during
which minor persons may appear on any of the streets or public places of the
city of Three Forks, Montana.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT FACILITY: The offices of the city of Three Forks police
department at 206 Main Street, Three Forks, Montana.
   MASCULINE GENDER: Shall include the feminine gender.
   MINOR: Any person who has not attained the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; or c) as a person to whom legal
custody has been given by order of court.
   PERSON: Any human being, male or female.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any park, playground, schoolyard, pond area, or other publicly
owned property within or outside the city limits.
   SINGULAR NUMBER: Shall include the plural number.
   STREET: Any public street, highway, sidewalk, alley, or other public way
within the city of Three Forks, Montana. (Ord. 234, 10-10-1995; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
6-3-5: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
A curfew restricting the time of day during which minor persons may appear on
any of the streets or in any of the public places of the city is hereby
established. No minor, as specified in section
6-3-7 of this chapter, shall be in or upon any street or public place within
the city during the hours provided in section
6-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any street or public
place within the city during the hours provided in section
 6-3-7 of this chapter shall not be considered in violation of this chapter
when:
   A.   Accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   B.   Accompanied by a person over eighteen (18) years of age who is
authorized by a parent of such minor to take said parent's place in
accompanying said minor for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area.
   C.   In the performance of an errand or duty directed by a parent of such
minor.
   D.   Attending a school or religious activity. This exception will apply for
one-half (1/2) hour after the completion of such activity.
   E.   Engaged in legally recognized employment. This exception will apply for
the period from one-half (1/2) hour before to one-half (1/2) hour after work.
(Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-7: CURFEW HOURS:
Minors who have not reached their eighteenth birthday shall not be in or upon
any street or public place between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. except on Friday or Saturday nights when such hours
shall be between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.;
provided, however, that on any weekday night preceding a holiday recognized by
the United States Of America, state of Montana, or the city, the hours shall be
between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. In
addition, during the period of time that the state is operating under daylight
saving time, the aforementioned hours shall be extended by one-half (1/2) hour.
(Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-8: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It is a violation of this chapter for any parent, guardian or other
person having the care, custody or control of a minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years to allow such minor, either expressly or by neglect to duly exercise
such care, custody or control, to wander, play, loiter on the public streets,
highways, parks and playgrounds after the hour prescribed in section
6-3-7 of this chapter.
   B.   The burden for proving the exception noted in this chapter is on the
defendant.
   C.   In any prosecution under this section, it shall not constitute a
defense that the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of such minor does not have knowledge that such minor did
wander, stroll or play in the public places during the hours of the curfew.
(Ord. 323-11, 6-14-2011)
6-3-9: LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, DUTY:
   A.   Ascertain Name Of Minor Violator And Parent: Upon finding a minor in or
upon any street or public place within the city in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the attending law
enforcement officer of the city to take the name of such minor and the name and
address of the minor's "parent" as defined in section
 6-3-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Notify Parent Or Guardian: The law enforcement officer shall
immediately notify the parent or guardian of the minor in violation of the
curfew, and the parent or guardian shall immediately appear to take charge of
such minor.
   C.   Entrust Minor To Parent Or Guardian: When a minor is apprehended for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the law enforcement officer shall
turn the minor over to the minor's parent or parents. If a parent cannot be
located, or fails to take charge of the minor, said minor may be entrusted to a
relative, neighbor, or other person who will, on behalf of the parent, assume
responsibility of caring for the minor pending the availability or the arrival
of the parent. (Ord. 234, 10-10-1995)
6-3-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines Imposed: Upon the first incident or violation of this chapter, a
written notice or warning shall be given to a parent or guardian of the minor
who is in violation of this chapter. Subsequent violation and conviction under
this chapter shall result in a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
second offense, two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a third offense and
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a fourth offense. Subsequent offenses shall
have a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine imposed each time and the court may
consider heavier financial or other penalties. (Ord. 316-09-10, 11-10-2009)
   B.   Youth Court: "Minors", as defined in section
 6-3-4 of this chapter, may be cited into youth court upon violation of this
chapter at the discretion of the law enforcement officer. (Ord. 234, 10-10-
1995)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Definitions
6-4A-2: Dog Licensing Requirements
6-4A-3: Additional Dog(s) Permit
6-4A-4: Tag And Collar
6-4A-5: Running At Large Prohibited
6-4A-6: Impoundment
6-4A-7: Nuisance Dogs
6-4A-8: Suspected Rabies
6-4A-9: Dangerous Dogs
6-4A-10: Penalty
6-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADDITIONAL DOG(S) PERMIT: A permit obtained by an occupant of a residential
dwelling, after approval by the City Council, for when one harbors more than
three (3), but not more than four (4) dogs.
   CURRENT VACCINATION CERTIFICATE: A vaccination certificate against rabies
which shall be dated within three (3) years from the date that the application
for a dog license is made.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which bites or attempts to bite any human being
without provocation, or which harasses, chases, bites, or attempts to bite any
other animal.
   DOG: Includes male and female.
   DOGGY DAY CARE: A business which keeps/cares for animals for pet owners
throughout the day, but not overnight which is not allowed in the city limits.
   HARBOR: A person who habitually lets or permits a dog to remain or be in or
about his or her house or premises.
   KENNEL: A commercial business in which one keeps animals for pet owners
which includes overnight stays, typically with an exterior fenced property (to
prevent dogs getting loose off the property), and interior fenced individual
dog runs which may be indoor and/or outdoor, and a larger exercise area. This
includes "doggy day cares" which do not house animals overnight which is not
allowed in the city limits.
   OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog.
   POUND: The place provided by the city and maintained by the Three Forks
police department for the impounding of dogs.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: A dog which is off the owned or leased premises of the dog
owner, unless he shall be under leash and under the control of a competent
person.
   VACCINATE: The inoculation of a dog with an antirabies vaccine under the
administration of the county health officer or by any licensed veterinarian,
the cost of said vaccination to be borne by the owner of the dog.
(1977 Code § 8.04.010; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009; Ord. 320-10,
10-12-2010; Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-2: DOG LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Fee; Time For Registration: Every dog over five (5)
months of age in the city limits is required to have a license. The annual
license fee shall be set via resolution adopted by the city council. The fee
shall be for each dog and each dog shall be registered for the calendar year on
or before April 15 of each year at the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Application For License: The owner shall state at the time application
is made for such license, his/her name, address, phone number, the dog's name,
breed, color, sex, altered status (spay/neuter), and current rabies vaccination
certificate or like proof, and no license shall be is-sued by the clerk without
such current rabies vaccination certificate.
   C.   Term Of Registration: Any dog brought into the city after April 15 and
prior to the following April 15, or any dog attaining the age of five (5)
months after such date and prior to such date in the succeeding year shall pay
the fee and register the dog as provided herein. Such registrations shall
expire on December 31 annually.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs
whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily within the city, nor to dogs brought
into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor to "seeing
eye" dogs or "hearing impaired" guide dogs, properly trained to assist a blind
person or hearing impaired person, when such dogs are actually being used by a
blind person or a hearing impaired person for the purpose of aiding them in
going from place to place.
(1977 Code § 8.04.020; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 359-15, 7-28-2015; Ord. 402-2024,
1-9-2024)
6-4A-3: ADDITIONAL DOG(S) PERMIT:
   A.   Limit On Number Of Dogs; Application And Hearing:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, family or group of persons in the
same dwelling to keep, harbor, or maintain any number more than three (3) dogs
over five (5) months of age in or upon any property. (Ord. 244, 1997; amd. 2000
Code). It is unlawful for any person, family or group of persons in the same
dwelling to keep, harbor, or maintain more than four (4) dogs of any age with
or without an issued permit in or upon any property.
      2.   Any person, family or group of person in the same dwelling in or
upon any property may apply for a permit authorizing the keeping of four (4)
dogs. The application form shall be provided by the City and must be
accompanied by the applicable fee to be set via resolution adopted by the city
council. Submittal of a complete, signed application is an agreement between
the applicant and the city to perform an inspection prior to any decision. If
the applicant is not the property owner, the application shall include the
property owner's signature.
         a.   Said application fee will be used to cover the cost of staff to
create and mail notice to the property owners within three hundred feet (300' -
the equivalent of one city block), excluding streets and alleys, in any
direction from the applicant's property, of the hearing scheduled before the
city council to decide on the Additional Dog Permit application. This fee is
nonrefundable.
      3.   This section shall not apply to licensed veterinarian hospitals. It
is intended to apply to keeping or maintaining a commercial dog kennel or doggy
day cares, and breeding dogs, which are hereby declared to be nuisances, unless
an additional dog permit is granted by the city council after application and
hearing.
      4.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the clerk shall schedule the
decision at a public meeting before the city council. Such hearing shall be
held after investigation of the premises by a city employee or law enforcement,
who shall inspect the space the animals will be housed. Such inspection report
shall include at a minimum the care/health of the animals, access to outdoor
space, whether or not the outside space is fenced, if there are any odors or
excess of animal waste, and any dog-related complaints associated with the
applicant. The employee/officer may make a recommendation of approval, approval
with conditions, or denial to the city council.
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: An additional dog permit shall be required where
the applicant owns, harbors, or keeps more than three (3) dogs, which
application shall be authorized or denied based upon the information in the
application, provided during the application process and including, but not
limited to public comment presented to the city council. The license fee shall
be set via resolution adopted by the city council and is good for the calendar
year, or any part thereof, expiring on December 31, unless sooner revoked. A
permit holder must adhere to any conditions imposed by the city council, and
agrees to inspections by law enforcement upon any complaint(s) received, or
upon renewal.
   C.   Annual Renewal: Upon approval of an additional dog permit, said permit
must be renewed each calendar year no later than April 15. Such renewal shall
include a fee set via resolution adopted by the city council.
   D.   Revocation Of License: Upon complaint being made and substantiated that
an additional dog permit is being operated in an improper manner or violates
any of the conditions imposed, the city council may revoke the permit after a
proper hearing and notice to the permittee. In the event the permit is revoked,
the dog owner shall then have no more than thirty (30) days to remove the
animals in excess of the number allowed by law.
   E.   Violation, Fines: It is unlawful to have more than three (3) dogs
harbored or maintained on a premises without a current permit. If, after ninety
(90) days of notice of violation of this subsection, more than three (3) dogs
remain on the premises, the fine doubles for each dog over the allowance.
(Ord. 244, 1997; amd. Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-4: TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon payment of the license fee, the city clerk shall
issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog
licensed. The shape of the tag shall change every year and shall have stamped
thereon the year for which it was issued.
   B.   Collar Required: Every owner shall provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed, and see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn; provided, however, that it shall be lawful to remove such
collar and license tag when such dog is under the immediate control of its
owner or his/her agent.
   C.   Duplicate Tag; Fee: In case the tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
will be issued by the clerk upon payment as set via resolution by the city
council. Tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another.
(1977 Code § 8.04.030; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-5: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED 1 :
   No owner of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large at any time.
(1977 Code § 8.04.040)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article C of this chapter.
6-4A-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority to Impound: It shall be the duty of any city employee or law
enforcement to ap-prehend any dog running at large, or unlicensed, or without
collar and license tag, in violation of any one or more of sections
6-4A-1 through this section to impound such dog at the animal shelter for the
county, or other location designated by the city council.
   B.   Registry Required: Police officers, upon impounding any dog, shall make
or cause to be made a complete registry, entering the apparent breed, color,
sex and whether licensed. If licensed, he shall enter the name and address of
the owner and the number of the license tag.
   C.   Supervision Of City Employees: Any person employed by the city for the
purpose of enforcing sections
6-4A-2 through
6-4A-10 of this article shall be under the supervision and authority of police
officers.
   D.   Use Of Tranquilizer Gun Or Similar Device: No person, including police
officers, or members of the Three Forks police department shall, in the
enforcement of sections
6-4A-8 through
6-4A-10 of this article, use a "tranquilizer gun" or any similar mechanized
device which causes paralysis or unconsciousness in a dog, except if the dog is
a "dangerous dog" as defined in section
6-4A-1 of this article. However, nothing herein shall preclude the use of such
a tranquilizer gun or similar device in the hands of a licensed veterinarian or
a member of the Three Forks police department or other city employee who is
certified in writing by a licensed veterinarian as competent to use such a
tranquilizer gun or similar device.
(1977 Code § 8.04.050; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009; Ord. 320-10,
10-12-2010; Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-7: NUISANCE DOGS:
   No owner shall keep a dog, whether running at large or not, which shall
cause annoyance or disturbance by prolonged or repeating barking, howling, or
yelping, by chasing motor vehicles or human beings, or repeatedly damaging or
destroying the flowers, plants, lawn, shrubbery, or trees of a neighborhood or
of a citizen. Any owner keeping such a nuisance dog in violation of this
section shall be punished as set forth in section the PENALTY section of this
article.
(Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-8: SUSPECTED RABIES:
Any dog suspected of having rabies shall be seized by a police officer and
impounded for a period of ten (10) days. The county health officer shall be
notified at once of such impounding and the dog may be disposed of only under
his direction.
(1977 Code § 8.04.080; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009; Ord. 402-
2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-9: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Relinquish Dangerous Dog To Authorities: Whenever a written complaint
is made before a police officer or city judge, that a "dangerous dog", as
defined in section
6-4A-1 of this article, has bitten or attempted to bite any human being without
provocation, or which harasses, chases, bites, or attempts to bite any other
animal, the police officer shall issue an order allowing the police officer to
seize the dog which is the subject of the complaint for a period up to seventy
two (72) hours. The animal would be kept until the police officer has completed
the investigation of the charge or seventy two (72) hours whichever is less.
   B.   Failure To Relinquish Dangerous Dog: The owner or possessor who shall
refuse or neglect to turn over said dog to the police officer within twelve
(12) hours of receiving such order described in subsection A of this section
shall be in violation of this article and punished as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Dangerous Dog Retention: Upon the expiration of seventy two (72) hours
after relinquishment of the dog described in subsection A of this section, if
the investigation supports, in the opinion of the Three Forks police
department, the dog should be retained as evidence until the case is
adjudicated, the Three Forks police department may apply to the city court for
an order allowing the dog to remain in the custody of the Three Forks police
department pending file adjudication of the charge. Upon conviction, in
addition to any other penalty, the party so convicted shall be assessed all
costs and fees for the keeping of the dog.
(Ord. 320-10, 10-12-2010; amd. Ord. 331-12, 4-10-2012; Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
6-4A-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Dangerous Dogs: Any owner or possessor of a dangerous dog upon
violating the provisions of this article by owning or possessing a dangerous
dog shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) but not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or six (6) months' imprisonment for a first
offense. Upon conviction of a second offense for the same dangerous dog, the
fine shall be no less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or alternatively the
court may order the euthanization of the dangerous dog. Upon conviction of a
third or subsequent offense for the same dangerous dog, the fine shall be no
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or in the alternative the court may
order the euthanization of the dangerous dog.
   In addition to the fine, an owner or possessor who is found guilty of
violating this provision shall pay restitution to the city for all costs and
expenses of boarding the dangerous dog. If the dog is euthanized, the owner or
possessor who is found guilty of violating the provision shall pay as
restitution to the city all costs and expenses of euthanizing the dog.
   Any owner found violating the provision for failure to relinquish to a
police officer, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), but not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or six (6) months' imprisonment
for each offense.
   B.   Nuisance Dogs: Any owner found violating any provision of this article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and/or six (6) months' imprisonment.
   C.   Licensing Penalties: Any owner found violating any provision of the
licensing provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 329-12, 2-14-2012; amd. Ord. 332-12, 4-10-2012; Ord. 363-2015, 1-12-2016;
Ord. 402-2024, 1-9-2024)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
SECTION:
6-4B-1: Hoofed Animals At Large
6-4B-2: Animals And Fowl At Large
6-4B-2-1: Chickens
6-4B-3: Prohibition Of Pastures
6-4B-4: Exceptions
6-4B-5: Fines Collected
6-4B-6: Penalty
6-4B-1: HOOFED ANIMALS AT LARGE:
The herding or running at large of hoofed animals upon the City streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, or public places or grounds within the City, excluding
the Buttelman land west of the Jefferson River while it is zoned agricultural,
is hereby prohibited and declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 226, 1993)
6-4B-2: ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE:
It is hereby made and declared unlawful and a nuisance for any hoofed animals
(i.e., hogs, horses, cattle, sheep, swine, and goats) and fowl (i.e., chickens,
turkeys, ducks, and geese) excepting those chickens allowed to be kept by City
ordinance and those animals in times of rodeos and parades, to be kept within
the corporate limits of the City for more than forty eight (48) hours, and such
animals or fowl so kept within the City longer than said allowed time are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and a violation of this article and the
continuance of the same shall be regarded as a separate offense to be punished
as such separate offense. Roosters are strictly prohibited within the City
limits and the presence of the same shall be hereby declared to be a nuisance
and a violation of this article and the continuance of the same shall be
regarded as a separate offense to be punished as such separate offense. (Ord.
354-15, 2-24-2015)
6-4B-2-1: CHICKENS:
   A.   Permits Required/Inspections/Renewal Fee: The maximum number of permits
issued shall be established by the City Council and adopted by resolution. Each
permit, if approved, will be issued on a first come, first served basis
providing all requirements of this section are met. The acceptance by an
application of a permit as described herein is a representation by the
applicant that so long as a permit is held, the inspection described in this
sec-tion is consented to by the applicant. An annual renewal and inspection
shall be done within twelve (12)-months of the initial permit issuance date, at
a fee determined by the City Council via resolution.
      1.   Prior to the keeping of any chickens, a party seeking to keep
chickens shall obtain a permit from the City. A permit fee may be established
by resolution of the City Council and may be revised from time to time. Only
one permit shall be issued per lot. Issuance of a permit is a discretionary
act, based on a complete application being provided and all requirements being
met.
      2.   The owner of the chickens shall keep a copy of all signed City
approval documents for inspection upon request by law enforcement, animal
control officer or Zoning Code official.
      3.   A permit for chickens under this section does not relieve any party
from any requirement to obtain any other permit or other necessary approvals
for any structure, fence, lighting, heat source, etc., as required by this Code
or State of Montana Code.
      4.   A party wishing to keep chickens shall submit an application to the
Three Forks City office.
      5.   The application shall contain the following:
         a.   A sketch identifying the property boundaries, the location of all
structures on the property and distances between said structure and between the
property boundaries. The sketch must also indicate the location of the chicken
enclosure and henhouse.
         b.   A description of cubic footage of the henhouse.
         c.   The name, address, and signed statement of the property owner, if
different from the applicant, consenting to the keeping of the applied for
number of chickens on the property.
         d.   A sworn statement that all statements contained in the
application are true and that the permit holder shall keep the chicken in
compliance with the terms of the permit, application and this section.
   B.   Roosters: No roosters shall be kept or maintained within the City.
   C.   Number Of Chickens: The number of chickens authorized per permit shall
comply with the following, subject to all other standards in this article:
      1.   For each residential parcel, up to six (6) chickens.
      2.   For parcels with multiple households the physical area used for
determining the maximum number of allowed hens is exclusive to each permit and
may not overlap. This may restrict the number of permits issued on a given
parcel.
   D.   General Regulations For Keeping Chickens:
      1.   No chickens may run at large within the corporate limits of the
City. All chickens must be contained within the permittee's property boundary.
      2.   The permittee shall provide the chickens with a cover, predatorproof
henhouse that is thoroughly ventilated, of sufficient size to admit free
movement of the chickens. The henhouse must be adjacent to and provide free
access to the chicken enclosure. Any heat source or electrical facilities
installed in a chicken house must comply with all adopted Building and
Electrical Codes of the State of Montana.
      3.   Chickens shall be secured within the enclosure from sunset to
sunrise.
      4.   Chicken enclosures and houses must be kept in a neat and sanitary
condition at all times, and must be cleaned on a regular basis so as to prevent
offensive odors.
      5.   Storage of chicken manure must be in a fully enclosed bin/container
as to prevent offensive odors.
      6.   Chickens shall have continuous access to adequate food and water.
      7.   Store feed must be kept in rodent and predator proof containers.
      8.   Chickens shall be maintained in a healthy condition. Ill chickens
shall either receive appropriate medical care or be culled.
      9.   No henhouse shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') to any
structure inhabited by someone other than the chicken owner, custodian or
keeper, and not closer than ten feet (10') to any property line. Henhouses may
be movable but must comply with all standards of this section.
      10.   Henhouses will not be permitted in any front yard.
      11.   No chickens shall be slaughtered within the public view.
   E.   Compliance With Investigator: If during any inspection by any of those
listed above, the investigator determines changes are to be made to the
enclosure, henhouse, or the number of chickens to be kept, or require
mitigation for the impact to adjacent properties, such as fencing or other
screening, the applicant/permit holder shall comply with the order of the
investigator. A person aggrieved by a decision of the investigator may appeal
to the City of Three Forks' Variance Board, who shall review all applicable
information and issue a decision on the appeal. Appeals on the Variance Board's
decision may be made to the City Council. At the time of the final approval by
the initial investigator, the investigator/officer shall indicate final
approval on the permit and keep a record of final approval.
   F.   Permit Specific To Permit Holder: A permit to keep chickens is specific
to the permit holder and the location of the permit. A person wishing to move
chickens to a different property shall obtain a new permit. A new resident of a
property who intends to keep chickens shall obtain a new permit regardless of
whether chickens were kept on the property or continue to be kept on the
property.
   G.   Changes In Standards: Changes to the standards contained in this
section shall require any permit holder to comply with any new standard,
regulation, or condition and no notice to a permit holder is required prior to
enforcement of any new standard beyond that required for adoption of a new or
revised ordinance.
   H.   Zoning Permit Issuance: Any enclosure, building, structure or henhouse
that exists, or will be built or brought onto the residential property for the
use of raising chickens must apply for and be issued a zoning permit and where
applicable a floodplain permit. If the permittee is adding a structure of any
kind which will be located within the floodplain, the permittee must comply
with all ordinances regarding floodproofing of the structure. (Ord. 348-14, 2-
25-2014; amd. Ord. 372-2017, 6-27-2017; Ord. 400-2023, 3-14-2023)
6-4B-3: PROHIBITION OF PASTURES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or pasture any hoofed animals and
fowl within the City limits excepting chickens allowed to be kept by City
ordinance, and those animals in times of rodeos and parades. (Ord. 344-13, 11-
26-2013)
6-4B-4: EXCEPTIONS:
This article will not apply nor will it be enforced against any property or
animals located on property within the City limits that lies west of the
Jefferson River. (Ord. 226, 1993)
6-4B-5: FINES COLLECTED:
All fees, fines and forfeitures collected hereunder shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and dispensed as the City Council may provide. (Ord.
226, 1993)
6-4B-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, including revocation of the permit. "Offense" is defined as
each animal for each day. (Ord. 372-2017, 6-27-2017)
   6-4C ()CHAPTER 4
   ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE C. ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
SECTION:
6-4C-1: Definitions
6-4C-2: Owner's Duty
6-4C-3: Violation; Fines Imposed
6-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ANIMAL: Includes both male and female.
   OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: An animal is defined as "running at large" which is off
the owned or leased premises of the animal's owner, unless he shall be under
leash and under the control of a competent person. (Ord. 209, 12-9-1986)
6-4C-2: OWNER'S DUTY:
The owner or keeper of any animal within the City limits shall at all times
prohibit and prevent said animal from being at large. (Ord. 209, 12-9-1986)
6-4C-3: VIOLATION; FINES IMPOSED:
   A.   Fines Imposed: Any person violating the provisions of this Article
shall be guilty of a public offense and shall be fined as follows:
      1.   Upon a first conviction, a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be imposed.
      2.   Upon a second conviction within one year from the date of the first
conviction, the fine shall be twice the amount of the fine for the first
conviction.
      3.   Upon a third conviction within one year from date of the first
conviction, the fine shall be four (4) times the amount of the fine for the
first conviction.
      4.   Upon a fourth conviction within one year from the date of the first
conviction, the fine shall be eight (8) times the amount of the fine for the
first conviction.
   B.   Jail Sentence: In addition to the fines set forth above, any one
conviction may include sentence in the Gallatin County jail for a period of not
more than ten (10) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 209, 12-
9-1986)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of State Regulations
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Mayor And Police Officers; Enforcement
7-1-4: Government Vehicles
7-1-5: Authorized Emergency Vehicles; Exemptions
7-1-6: Pushcarts, Bicycles, Animals
7-1-7: Traffic Signs And Signals
7-1-8: Crosswalks For Pedestrians
7-1-9: Lanes For Traffic
7-1-10: Bicycles, Skateboards And Vehicles On Sidewalks
7-1-11: Air Compression Brakes
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adoption: All ordinances of the City relating to the regulation of
traffic within the City are hereby revised and recodified by the adoption of
the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways as set forth in title 61,
chapters 8 and 9, Montana Code Annotated, and as amended from time to time.
   B.   Copy On File: One full printed copy of the Act is on file in the Office
of the City Clerk. The aforesaid Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, for all
intents and purposes, as though set forth herein at length. (2000 Code)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are not
herein given, shall be given the ordinary meanings. Whenever in this chapter
the following terms are used, they shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section:
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS: That portion of Montana State Highway 10 within the
limits of the City of Three Forks, Montana; all of Main Street in the City of
Three Forks, Montana; and all those streets and avenues which may be hereafter
designated by the Council as arterial highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of City departments as are
designated or authorized by the Mayor.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: All that part or those parts of Three Forks on Main
Street and that portion or those portions of Montana State Highway 10 within
the limits of the City of Three Forks, Montana.
   CAMPING, PRIVATE NON-COMMERCIAL: The use of temporary living accommodations
such as tents, tepees, yurts, and recreation vehicles such as motor homes,
campers, or trailers or any other vehicle or structure not permitted.
   COUNCIL: The City Council.
   CROSSWALK: That portion of a street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, or any other
portion of a street or roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines, or, if none, then, the lateral boundary lines of two (2) or more streets
or highways which join one another at an angle, whether or not one such street
or highway crosses the other.
   MAYOR: The Mayor of the City.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle as herein defined, which is self- propelled.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS: All signs, markings and devices, other than signals,
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the Mayor
or other official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of guiding, directing,
warning or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR: Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a street
or roadway, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic regulations or
traffic signs or signals.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every police officer or any officer authorized to direct or
regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: All that part or those parts of Three Forks not included
in the business district.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of a street, roadway or
highway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street, avenue or alley between the regularly
established curb lines, and, where there are no curbs, that part devoted to
vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET: "Avenue" and "alley".
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street, roadway or
highway for purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device using colored lights, or words, or any
combination thereof, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated,
by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed. It also
includes stationary "stop" signs.
   VEHICLE: Every machine in, upon or by which a person or objects may be
transported or drawn upon a street or roadway, whether currently operable or
not, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks. (1977 Code § 10.16.010; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-
2009; Ord. 376-2017, 10-10-2017)
7-1-3: MAYOR AND POLICE OFFICERS; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: It shall be the duty of the Mayor and police
officers of the City to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The police
officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic, either in person or by
means of visible or audible signal in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, the police officers or Fire
Department may direct traffic, as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code § 10.16.020; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-
09-10, 11-10-2009)
   B.   Noncompliance: It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of the police officers with
reference to "traffic" as defined in section
7-1-2 of this chapter. (1977 Code § 10.16.030; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10,
11-10-2009)
7-1-4: GOVERNMENT VEHICLES:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the operator of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, the State, the
County, or the City, and it shall be unlawful for any said operator to violate
any of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise herein provided.
(1977 Code § 10.16.040)
7-1-5: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing of
vehicles shall not apply to "authorized emergency vehicles" as defined in this
chapter while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency
in the necessary performance of public duties. This exemption shall not,
however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of a
reckless disregard of the safety of others. (1977 Code § 10.16.050)
7-1-6: PUSHCARTS, BICYCLES, ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the operator of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter with reference to the equipment of vehicles
and except those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
(1977 Code § 10.16.060)
7-1-7: TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Placement And Enforcement:
      1.   The Mayor shall determine and designate the character or type of all
official traffic signs and signals, and it shall be his duty to place and
maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, all official traffic signs and
signals required hereunder.
      2.   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator, if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, the sign herein required is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen in the exercise of ordinary care and caution.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective without signs being erected to give notice thereof.
(1977 Code § 10.16.070)
   B.   Disobeying: It shall be unlawful for any operator to disobey the
instructions of any official traffic sign or signal placed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(1977 Code § 10.16.080; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
   C.   Unofficial Signs And Signals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain or to
display upon or in view of any street any unofficial sign, signal or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which
hides from view any official traffic sign or signal.
      2.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the Mayor is hereby empowered to remove the same, or
cause it to be removed, without notice. (1977 Code § 10.16.090)
   D.   Defacing Signs Or Signals: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully deface, injure, move, obstruct or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal or barricade. (1977 Code § 10.16.100)
7-1-8: CROSSWALKS FOR PEDESTRIANS:
The Mayor is hereby authorized to establish and to designate and shall
thereafter maintain, or cause to be maintained, by appropriate devices, marks
or lines upon the surface of the street, roadway or highway, crosswalks at
intersections where, in his opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the street, roadway or highway, and at such other places as he may
deem necessary. (1977 Code § 10.16.110)
7-1-9: LANES FOR TRAFFIC:
The Mayor is hereby authorized to mark or cause to be marked lanes for traffic
on street pavements at such places as he may deem advisable, consistent with
the provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code § 10.16.120)
7-1-10: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Unlawful Use Of Sidewalks: No person shall make unlawful, unauthorized
or improper use of the sidewalks upon any of the streets in the City; nor ride,
drive or use thereon any bicycle, velocipede, skateboard, scooter, motorcycle,
motor vehicle, or any riding machine/device of any kind.
   B.   Exemptions: Handicap use of motorized mobility; riders learning to ride
or using training wheels; motorized use of snow removal equipment during
inclement weather conditions.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 338-13, 9-10-2013)
7-1-11: AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Use Prohibited; Exception: The use of air compression brakes generally
known as "jake brakes" is hereby prohibited within the City limits. An
exception shall be if, in an emergency situation, the use of air compression
brakes is necessary to prevent accident or injury to persons or property.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 258-99, 6-8-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definition
7-2-2: Power Of The Mayor
7-2-3: Removal, Impounding, Return Of Motor Vehicles
7-2-4: Fines And Penalties
7-2-5: General Parking Regulations
7-2-6: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
7-2-7: No Parking Of Certain Vehicles
7-2-8: Responsibility For Charges
7-2-9: Parking Near Driveways Entering Main Street
7-2-10: Angle Parking
7-2-11: Handicapped Parking
7-2-12: U-Turns
7-2-13: Restricted Parking
7-2-14: Residential Parking Restrictions
7-2-15: School Area Parking Restrictions
7-2-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "motor vehicle" includes all kinds of
vehicles, any kind of trailer, camper, recreational vehicles, boats, trucks and
semitrucks with or without trailers. (Ord. 310-09, 5-12-2009)
7-2-2: POWER OF THE MAYOR:
The Mayor of the City of Three Forks is empowered to designate areas of
parking, limitations on parking, no parking, standing or stopping. He/she is
hereby authorized and empowered to designate areas or zones of parking, no
parking, restricted or limited parking such as handicapped parking, standing or
stopping, and may provide for the erection of suitable signs and/or designate
such zones by providing for the painting of the curb a color recognized by the
Department of Transportation to designate a specific zone. Any person stopping,
standing or parking in such zones as the Mayor may designate hereunder, that
does not have proper permitting, shall be subject to the punitive provision of
this chapter. (Ord. 373-2017, 7-11-2017)
7-2-3: REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING, RETURN OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Motor vehicles parked in violation of any section of this chapter may be
removed or impounded by any police officer or highway patrolman in accordance
with this Code at owner's expense. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-4: FINES AND PENALTIES:
See section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this Code. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-5: GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle, or trailer, boat, camper or
motorcycle upon any street, roadway, thoroughfare or alley; or on and in any
other public place for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle or motor vehicle for sale.
      2.   Greasing, maintaining or repairing such vehicle, except repairs that
are necessitated by an emergency rendering vehicle inoperable. (Ord. 268, 2-11-
2003)
   B.   When a vehicle is loading or unloading within a public alley, ten feet
(10') of the width of the alleyway shall be available at all times for the free
movement of vehicular traffic. When such a vehicle is loading or unloading in
an alley, the same shall not be parked in such a position as to block the
driveway or entrance of any abutting property, except for in Central Business
District. (Ord. 376-2017, 10-10-2017)
   C.   City streets are not to be used as storage areas. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
   D.   Except as otherwise provided, a vehicle parked upon a public street or
thoroughfare shall be parked or stopped parallel to the travelled way facing
the same direction as the traffic flow upon such street or thoroughfare.
Further, parking or stopping shall be of such a distance as to not block,
inhibit or impair the travelled way in any manner, including but not limited to
opening doors shall not interfere or cross the plane of the travelled way.
   E.   Camping, private non-commercial is prohibited within the Municipal
limits, except in authorized and permitted campgrounds.
   F.   No vehicle, inoperable or unlicensed vehicle, inoperable or unlicensed
trailer, inoperable or unlicensed camper or inoperable or unlicensed
recreational vehicle may remain standing or parked on one side of the public
street within any one block for more than seventy two (72) hours. After seventy
two (72) hours, any vehicle and any inoperable or unlicensed vehicle,
inoperable or unlicensed trailer, inoperable or unlicensed camper or inoperable
or unlicensed recreational vehicle may be declared abandoned and a five (5) day
notice of intent to remove and impound may be placed on the vehicle, trailer,
camper or recreational vehicle by the City or law enforcement. The cost of
towing and impoundment storage is the responsibility of the owner. (Ord. 376-
2017, 10-10-2017)
7-2-6: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police
or traffic control officer or highway patrolman in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk, walkways and trails.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection or within fifteen feet (15') of an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk, or within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk when marked
by painted lines and designated by a sign.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within twenty feet (20') of the approach to any traffic signal, stop
sign or other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping or parking would obstruct the flow of traffic; or leave less than
twenty feet (20') of available roadway from the free movement of traffic.
   I.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
curb, roadway or street.
   J.   Upon any bridge or elevated structure within the City.
   K.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (Ord. 268, 2-11-
2003)
7-2-7: NO PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful at any time to park a motor vehicle giving off an
offensive or disagreeable odor, or any tank truck, tank trailer or like vehicle
containing or used for the transportation of gasoline, butane, fuel oil or
other highly toxic flammable substance to be parked on any street, alley, park
or other public place or upon any private property in the City where it would
create a hazard to life or adjacent property for a period longer than thirty
(30) minutes; however, this restriction shall not be construed to prevent the
delivery of such liquid to retail gas stations or to private residence or
business or business property, but only for so long as is reasonably necessary
to complete such delivery. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHARGES:
The owner of a vehicle, which has been removed or impounded, will be
responsible for moving and storage expenses arising from the transportation of
said vehicle. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-9: PARKING NEAR DRIVEWAYS ENTERING MAIN STREET:
   A.   East Side: It shall be illegal for any person to park any motor vehicle
within fourteen feet (14') of the north side and four feet (4') on the south
side of any driveway entering upon the east side of Main Street located in the
City.
   B.   West Side: It shall be illegal for any person to park any motor vehicle
within fourteen feet (14') of the south side and four feet (4') of the north
side of any driveway entering upon the west side of Main Street located in the
City. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-10: ANGLE PARKING:
Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking, vehicles
shall be parked wholly within, or between, two (2) such adjacent marks or
signs. In the Business District, all vehicles must be parked on, and by turning
the same to, the right side of the street in the direction which such vehicles
are facing. No left turns into parking spaces. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-11: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "physically handicapped"
means a physical disability, in firmness, malformation or disfigurement which
is caused by bodily injury, birth defects or illness. It includes, without
limitation, any degree of paralysis, amputation, lack of physical coordination,
dependence upon a wheelchair or any other remedial appliance or device.
   B.   Reserved Handicapped Parking: Whenever a particular parking space has
been designated and reserved for the handicapped, no person shall park in said
space unless he/she has visibly displayed on his/her vehicle a valid
handicapped parking permit or license plate issued by a municipality, the State
of Montana or any other state, or the Veterans' Administration. (Ord. 268, 2-
11-2003)
   C.   Designated Handicapped Parking: A parking space reserved for a person
with a disability must be designated by a sign showing the international symbol
of accessibility, indicating that a permit is required, and stating the penalty
for a violation. Violators will pay a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. (Ord.
374-2017, 7-11-2017)
7-2-12: U-TURNS:
Main Street: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to make
a U-turn for parking or any other purpose on Main Street or in the business
district of the City. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003)
7-2-13: RESTRICTED PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park on Main Street between Ash Street
and Date Street from three o'clock (3:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. any
vehicle. (Ord. 278-03-04, 4-13-2004)
7-2-14: RESIDENTIAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Within the borders of an officially designated residential district or
on the side of any street which borders or is within the borders of an
officially designated residential district, no person shall allow a motor
vehicle that is licensed for highway use, while such vehicle is parked or
standing to: (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003; amd. Ord. 376-2017, 10-10-2017)
      1.   Operate its refrigeration and/or generator unit;
      2.   Allow its engine to run more than thirty (30) minutes in any twelve
(12) hour period, or allow its generator to run more than sixty (60) minutes in
any twelve (12) hour period except when temperature is ten degrees (10°) below
zero Fahrenheit; (Ord. 376-2017, 10-10-2017)
      3.   Hold a load of live animals or offensively odorous material for more
than one hour in any twelve (12) hour period. (Ord. 268, 2-11-2003; amd. Ord.
376-2017, 10-10-2017)
7-2-15: SCHOOL AREA PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Exclusive of adjacent lot owners who will be issued a City permit to exceed the
one (1) hour parking, and School-issued parking permits for School-maintained
property, parking shall be restricted in the City right-of-way as follows:
   A.   Year round:
      1.   East Oak Street - between North 5th Avenue East and North 4th Avenue
East:
         a.   One-way traffic flow pattern traveling east to west from North
5th Avenue to North 4th Avenue East;
         b.   North half of this block has designated angled parking spaces;
         c.   South half of East Oak Street is designated "No Parking".
      2.   North 4th Avenue East - from East Oak Street to East Neal Street:
         a.   One-way traffic flow pattern traveling from north to south;
      3.   East Oak Street - between North 2nd Avenue East and MT Hwy-2/
Frontage Road:
         a.   North half of East Oak Street "No Parking".
   B.   Commencing on roughly August 20 of each year and continuing through
roughly June 6 of the next calendar year (as the school dates change from year
to year), from the hours of seven thirty o’clock (7:30) A.M. to four o’clock
(4:00) P.M. Monday through Thursday, parking and stopping of any vehicles as
defined in section
7-2-1 of this Title and Chapter shall be restricted as follows. (Refer to
Section E of this Title and Chapter for outside school dates.)
      1.   North 4th Avenue East - from East Oak Street to East Neal Street:
         a.   Easterly side one (1) hour parking;
         b.   Westerly side Student loading/unloading and handicap spaces.
      2.   North 4th Avenue East - from East Neal Street to East Ash Street
(both sides of street):
         a.   One (1) hour parking.
      3.   North 3rd Avenue East - from East Neal Street to East Ash Street
(both sides of street):
         a.   One (1) hour parking.
      4.   North 2nd Avenue East - from MT Hwy-2/Frontage Road to East Oak
Street:
         a.   Both sides are all day parking, maximum seventy-two (72) hours
(refer to section
7-2-5(F) of this Title).
      5.   North 2nd Avenue East - from East Oak Street to East Neal Street:
         a.   Easterly side is all day parking, maximum seventy-two (72) hours
(refer to section
7-2-5(F) of this Title);
         b.   Westerly side only one (1) hour parking.
      6.   North 2nd Avenue East - from East Neal Street to East Ash Street:
         a.   North half of Easterly side is all day parking, maximum seventy-
two (72) hours (refer to section
7-2-5(F) of this Title);
         b.   South half of Easterly side one (1) hour parking;
         c.   Westerly side one (1) hour parking.
      7.   East Oak Street - between North 2nd Avenue East and MT Hwy-2/
Frontage Road:
         a.   South half one (1) hour parking.
      8.   East Neal Street - between North 2nd and North 4th Avenues East:
         a.   North half is designated (from west to east) as student drop off/
pick up, followed by Emergency Services parking, then delivery and/or supply
loading and unloading, and finally handicap parking spaces.
         b.   South half (from west to east):
         (1)   Adjacent to the parking lot is all day parking, maximum seventy-
two (72) hours (refer to section
7-2-5(F) of this Title);
         (2)   From the alley between North 2nd and 3rd Avenues East all the
way to North 4th Avenue East is one (1) hour parking.
   C.   The City shall issue parking permit(s) exempting the adjacent lot owner
(s) from the one (1) hour parking area restrictions and authorizing adjacent
lot owner(s) permission to park vehicles in the one (1) hour parking area for
longer than the restricted time so long as the City-issued parking permit is
displayed in the windshield. The parking permit does not authorize the holder
to park in any other parking restricted area(s) of the City, nor park longer
than seventy-two (72) hours (refer to section
7-2-5(F) of this Title).
   D.   Three Forks School District shall issue parking permits for the school
employees/students parking lots, which are outside of the City's rights-of-way,
and administer the permits as it sees fit.
   E.   Any time outside of the dates and hours listed in section
7-2-15(B) are exempt from these provisions, as are special events held at the
School (i.e. sports, programs, open houses) which draw larger crowds than
normal daily activities. (Ord. 362-15, 8-25-2015; amd. Ord. 403-2024, 11-12-
2024)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Use Of Streets And Highways Within City
7-3-2: Operation Of Snowmobiles
7-3-3: Excessive Noise
7-3-4: Headlights And Taillights
7-3-5: Fluorescent Flag
7-3-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 8 of this code.
7-3-1: USE OF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS WITHIN CITY:
   A.   Streets: The streets within the city shall be used only as a method of
transportation and not as a means of recreation. Streets shall only be used to
get in and out of the city, and for other necessary travel. (1977 Code §
10.12.010)
   B.   Highways: Highways cannot be used within the city limits, except for a
ninety degree (90°) angle crossing. (1977 Code § 10.12.050)
7-3-2: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Stop At Intersections: Full stops shall be made at all intersections.
(1977 Code § 10.12.020)
   B.   Single File; Speed: Snowmobiles will travel only in single file on the
right side of streets, at a speed of fifteen (15) miles per hour or less. (1977
Code § 10.12.030)
   C.   Operating On Private Property: Snowmobiles will not be operated on
private property without the permission of the owner, and at no time shall they
be operated on sidewalks or posted areas. (1977 Code § 10.12.040)
   D.   Nighttime Snowmobiling: No snowmobiling shall be done after the hour of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. within the city except in going to, or returning from
an evening ride. (1977 Code § 10.12.060)
7-3-3: EXCESSIVE NOISE:
Excessive noise shall be considered disturbing the peace. (1977 Code §
10.12.070)
7-3-4: HEADLIGHTS AND TAILLIGHTS:
Headlights and taillights shall be on at all times while operating on the
streets. (1977 Code § 10.12.080)
7-3-5: FLUORESCENT FLAG:
A snowmobile shall at all times display a fluorescent flag at least five feet
(5') from surface level. (1977 Code § 10.12.090)
7-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 10.12.100; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Use Of Streets And Highways Within City
7-4-2: Operation Of Golf Carts
7-4-3: Excessive Noise
7-4-4: Penalty
7-4-1: USE OF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS WITHIN CITY:
   A.   Streets: The streets within the city shall be used only as a method of
transportation and not as a means of recreation. Golf carts shall use the
streets only to get in and out of the city, and for other necessary travel.
(Ord. 210, 7-14-1987)
   B.   Highways: Highways cannot be used within the city limits, except for
crossing. (Ord. 322-11, 6-14-2011)
7-4-2: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS:
   A.   Stop At Intersections: Golf carts shall make a full stop at all
intersections where stop signs are located and otherwise shall follow all the
rules of the road. (Ord. 210, 7-14-1987)
   B.   Single File; Speed: (Rep. by Ord. 322-11, 6-14-2011)
   C.   Operation On Private Property: Golf carts will not be operated on
private property without the permission of the owner, and at no time shall they
be operated on sidewalks or posted areas. (Ord. 210, 7-14-1987)
   D.   Nighttime Use Of Golf Carts: No golf cart shall be operated one hour
after sunset or before sunrise within the city and only when the cart is
equipped with proper lighting equipment comparable to lighting equipment for
motor vehicles. (Ord. 322-11, 6-14-2011)
7-4-3: EXCESSIVE NOISE:
Excessive noise shall be considered disturbing the peace. (Ord. 210, 7-14-1987)
7-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 210, 7-14-1987; amd. 2000 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Excavations In Public Streets
8-1-2: Excavations For Poles
8-1-1: EXCAVATIONS IN PUBLIC STREETS:
   A.   Removal Of Natural Soil; Permit Required: It shall be unlawful, within
the corporate limits of the City, for any person to make any excavation in any
of the public streets and alleys, and to disturb and remove from the surface of
said streets and alleys any of the natural soil, dirt and earth belonging
thereon, except as provided in this Section, and without first obtaining a
license as provided for in Section
8-1-2 of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 12.02.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Improving Streets: Nothing in this Section shall be construed to
prevent or to prohibit the use, working, grading and improving said streets and
alleys as may be authorized by law, and ordinances of the City. (1977 Code §
12.02.020)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall, upon conviction for each and every offense, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 12.02.030; amd. 2000 Code)
8-1-2: EXCAVATIONS FOR POLES:
   A.   Application For Permit: It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person,
association, corporation or company to make or cause to be made, any excavation
in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or other public grounds within the
corporate limits of the City for the purpose of erecting or placing any
telephone, telegraph, electric light or other like poles, or pole used or to be
used for any like purpose, or to erect any poles therein without first making
application to the Street Superintendent for a permit to do the same, and
obtaining from said Superintendent a permit in writing to make such excavation
and erect such poles.
   B.   Contents Of Application; Pole Location: Such application shall show the
location of such poles when erected, but such location may be changed by the
City Council so as to conform to existing conditions and the ordinances of the
City; and the location of such poles, when determined, shall be, in all cases,
done under the supervision of the Street Superintendent acting under the advice
and direction of the City Council. (1977 Code § 12.16.010; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Sidewalk Specifications And Grade On Main Street
8-2-2: Construction Requirements For Sidewalks On Main Street
8-2-3: Property Owner To Build Or Repair
8-2-4: Repair Of Deteriorated Sidewalks; Lien For Costs
8-2-5: Construction Of New Sidewalks
8-2-6: Obstructing Streets During Construction Or Repair
8-2-7: Width Of Sidewalks
8-2-8: Penalty
8-2-1: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS AND GRADE ON MAIN STREET:
   A.   Supervision: All sidewalks constructed and laid upon either side of
Main Street in the City between the south line of Blocks 47 and 48 to its
intersection with the east line of Railway Avenue shall be constructed of
cement or concrete material, and shall be constructed and laid under the
direction and supervision of the City Engineer and according to the provisions
of this Chapter, the surveys and profiles of Main Street now on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and the plans and specifications prepared and adopted
by the City Council. (1977 Code § 12.04.010; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Sidewalks: The sidewalk on either side of Main Street shall be
fourteen feet (14') in width; the curb or sidewalk grade at edge nearest the
carriageway shall be four inches (4") higher than grade line of center of
street; the elevations of line "A" or top of sidewalk along the property line
shall be as follows at block corners; the figures used are in excess of four
thousand feet (4,000'):
South end Blocks               47 and 48 67.71
North end Blocks               47 and 48 67.41
South end Blocks               28 and 29 67.35
North end Blocks               28 and 29 67.05
South end Blocks               24 and 25 66.98
North end Blocks               24 and 25 66.68
South end Blocks               16 and 17 66.62
North end Blocks               16 and 17 66.32
South end Blocks               13 and 14 66.25
North end Blocks               13 and 14 65.95
South end Blocks               5 and 6   65.88
North end Blocks               5 and 6   65.58
Southwest Corner Block 4                 65.52
West line Block 4 in East line           65.39
of Railway Avenue
 
      2.   Gutters: The gutter shall be one and one-third feet (11/3') in depth
below top of curb; that grade of Main Street shall be six inches (6") lower
than line "A". (1977 Code § 12.04.020)
   C.   Grades: The grade of all sidewalks and improvements thereof made on
Main Street shall conform to the grade fixed by this Section and the surveys
and profiles having reference to Main Street, reported to and approved by the
City Council, and on file in the office of the City Clerk. (1977 Code §
12.04.030)
   D.   Penalty: All persons convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this Section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 12.04.040; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR SIDEWALKS ON MAIN STREET:
All sidewalks hereafter built on Main Street in the City shall be built
according to the provisions of Section
8-2-1 of this Chapter and shall be constructed as follows:
   A.   First or filler shall be gravel or cinders, and shall be well tamped in
layers four inches (4") thick.
   B.   Second or concrete shall be five inches (5") thick consisting of gravel
and sand to be mixed as follows: five (5) parts of gravel, three (3) parts of
sand to one part of cement.
   C.   Third or top coat shall be not less than one inch (1") thick and mixed
as follows: two (2) parts of sand to one part of cement.
   D.   The concrete shall be cut through into blocks not over five feet (5')
square and the cut shall extend through the concrete and either building paper
or sand inserted in the cut made in the concrete.
   E.   Top coat shall be cut through to the concrete and into blocks not over
five feet (5') square. The cut through the top coat for each block shall match
as nearly as possible the cut made in the concrete.
   F.   Curb shall be faced one inch (1") thick as built and shall be mixed two
(2) parts of sand to one part of cement. (1977 Code § 12.08.010)
8-2-3: PROPERTY OWNER TO BUILD OR REPAIR:
   A.   Requirement; Time Limit: All persons owning real property, a lot or
lots, abutting on Main Street between the south line of Blocks 47 and 48 and
its intersection with the east line of Railway Avenue in the City where there
are no sidewalks, or where the same are, for any reason, dangerous and unsafe
for public use and convenience, shall build, rebuild and repair the sidewalks
along and in front of such abutting property, and in conformity to the
provisions of the ordinances of the City relating to the grade and construction
of sidewalks on each side of Main Street and of this Chapter, within thirty
(30) days after this Chapter shall go into effect and be operative. (1977 Code
§ 12.08.020)
   B.   Council Resolution: At the expiration of the said thirty (30) days
mentioned in subsection A of this Section, the City Council shall, by
resolution, designate and describe the lot and block in front of which a
sidewalk shall be newly constructed and built, or rebuilt and repaired as
provided for in this Chapter. (1977 Code § 12.08.030)
   C.   Notice To Property Owner: At the expiration of thirty (30) days from
the date of the adoption and passage of the resolution mentioned in subsection
B of this Chapter, the Street Superintendent shall immediately give twenty (20)
days' notice, in writing, to the owner of the property abutting such sidewalk,
or his agent, lessee or tenant, either by mailing or delivering the same, and
if neither can be found or their address is unknown, then by posting a copy of
said notice near the front line of the lot in front of which the sidewalk is
ordered constructed or repaired, fully describing therein the termini, course,
width and character of the sidewalk ordered; during which the said parties so
desiring may construct or repair the sidewalk abutting their property, and
further providing that all such sidewalks so ordered, remaining unbuilt or not
repaired at the expiration of said twenty (20) days from the date of said
notice, shall be built by the City Council at the expense of said property
owner as in this Chapter provided for. (1977 Code § 12.08.040; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-4: REPAIR OF DETERIORATED SIDEWALKS; LIEN FOR COSTS:
   A.   Order Repair By Owner: Whenever any sidewalk which is now or which may
by reason of natural deterioration or decay, or by reason of unevenness, or for
any cause whatever, become unfit or unsafe for public travel, or dangerous to
the public safety, the Street Superintendent shall require the owner of the
premises abutting such sidewalk, or his agent, to immediately repair the same.
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Repair; Action By City: In case of his refusal or
neglect to comply with such requisition, or in case no one can be found upon
whom to serve such notice to repair such sidewalk, such sidewalk shall be
immediately removed, remodeled, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly
built under the direction of the Street Superintendent, or such other form of
relief as may be required to make the same fit for public travel, as in his
judgment may be most expedient.
   C.   Lien For Costs: The costs thereof shall be a lien upon the lot or lots
abutting upon such sidewalk, and may be enforced or the amount may be recovered
against the owner by a suit before a competent jurisdiction, or may be assessed
and collected as a special tax against such lot or lots as in other cases.
(1977 Code § 12.08.050; amd. 2000 Code)
   D.   Compliance With Document: All sidewalks in need of repair or replacing,
excluding Main Street, shall follow the Montana Code Annotated public works
document concerning Municipal sidewalks. (2000 Code)
8-2-5: CONSTRUCTION OF NEW SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Requirement; Notice; Lien For Costs:
      1.   The construction of all new sidewalks ordered, or that shall be
removed, remodeled, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly rebuilt as by
this Chapter required, shall be under the supervision and to the satisfaction
of the Street Superintendent.
      2.   The total cost of all sidewalks constructed by the City, or that may
be constructed or repaired by the Street Superintendent, in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, or in the maintenance of sidewalks, which total
costs shall include that of the sidewalk proper as well as that of any notice,
establishment of the grade and all other necessary expenditures, shall be
certified by the Street Superintendent to the City Treasurer, who shall
transmit forthwith a copy thereof to the owner of the property immediately
abutting upon said sidewalk, or to his agent, lessee or tenant, either by
mailing or delivering the same, which total cost of construction, repairing or
rebuilding must be paid within one month from the date thereof, and if not paid
within the said time, the same shall become a lien or tax against the lots
abutting upon such sidewalks and shall bear interest at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month until paid, and shall be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as other taxes affected by such charge. (1977 Code § 12.08.060;
amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Time Limit: At the expiration of twenty (20) days from the date of the
notice, as aforesaid, the Street Superintendent must cause to be built, such
portions of the sidewalks ordered that may not yet be built within twenty (20)
days from the date thereof, as may be ordered by the City Council. (1977 Code §
12.08.070; amd. 2000 Code)
8-2-6: OBSTRUCTING STREETS DURING CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR:
   A.   Permit Required: None of the duties or privileges imposed or conferred
by this Chapter shall in any way be deemed to authorize or allow the
obstruction of any street either during or after any work upon any sidewalk,
except such as may be absolutely necessary to make such improvement, without a
permit therefor.
   B.   Granting Of Permit: No material removed from any sidewalk shall be
placed upon any portion of any adjacent street, alley or place unless a permit
therefor be granted. (1977 Code § 12.08.080)
   C.   Time Limit For Removal Of Debris: All refuse lumber and debris
remaining after the completion of any sidewalk, repairs or renewals of
sidewalk, shall be removed from the street forthwith, and any owner, lessee or
tenant of abutting property who shall fail to remove any such obstruction from
any street, alley or place within forty eight (48) hours after being notified
by the Street Superintendent so to do, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a
public nuisance and shall be subject to the penalties prescribed for the
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   Failure To Remove; Lien For Costs: In case of such failure to remove
obstructions after such notice, the Street Superintendent shall cause the same
to be removed and shall charge the full costs of such removal to such owner,
lessee or tenant and the said charge shall become a lien upon said abutting
property and shall be collected as hereinbefore provided for the collection of
cost of construction or repair of sidewalks. (1977 Code § 12.08.080; amd. 2000
Code)
8-2-7: WIDTH OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Width Specified: All sidewalks on both sides of all streets crossing
Main Street in the City for the distance of one block from each side of said
Main Street shall be eight feet (8') wide. (1977 Code § 12.12.010)
   B.   Uniformity Of Width; Grade: All sidewalks provided for in this Section
shall be uniform in width, built on grade established by ordinance and
according to specifications prescribed by ordinance. (1977 Code § 12.12.020)
8-2-8: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 12.08.090; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STREET AND AVENUE DESIGNATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Datum Line Or Base
8-3-2: Benchmark
8-3-3: Grade Of Center Line
8-3-4: Elevations Of Crossings
8-3-5: Improvements
8-3-6: Penalty
8-3-1: DATUM LINE OR BASE:
The datum line or base from which the grades of the several streets and avenues
of Three Forks shall be determined, defined, fixed, and designated, shall be by
reference to the following described benchmarks: first, the top of the cement
work at the bottom of the small hole cut in the surface of the sidewalk at the
northeast corner of the square formed by the intersection of Main and Cedar
Streets, is sixty six and twenty five one- hundredths feet (66.25') above datum
and in line A of diagram. Datum is still further fixed by reference to the top
of the square stone set on the south side of the track of the N.P.R.Y. near the
present station for Three Forks, State of Montana, in the SW1/4 of Section 30,
in Township 2N Range 2E, the elevation of which is four thousand sixty one feet
(4,061') above sea level as published by authority of the U.S. Geological
Survey in the bulletin entitled "A Dictionary of Altitudes in the United
States". The elevation of the point on the datum or base line is, therefore,
referenced to sea level and is four thousand sixty six and twenty five one-
hundredths feet (4,066.25'), and for convenience in the use of the figures
referring to the elevations of points on the datum or base line for Main
Street, the figures in excess of four thousand feet (4,000') are used. (1977
Code § 10.02.010)
8-3-2: BENCHMARK:
A second benchmark shall be at the surface of the northeast corner of the
cement work around the "City pump" near the intersection of the east line of
Railway Avenue with the north line of Cedar Street; elevation above sea level,
four thousand sixty six and sixty eight one-hundredths feet (4,066.68'). (1977
Code § 10.02.020)
8-3-3: GRADE OF CENTER LINE:
The grade of center line of Main Street, from the south line of Blocks 47 and
48 to its intersection with the east line of Railway Avenue, in the Original
Townsite of Three Forks, shall be a uniform grade of one foot (1') in a
thousand, or elevation 67.21 to elevation 64.97. (1977 Code § 10.02.030)
8-3-4: ELEVATIONS OF CROSSINGS:
The elevations of crossings of center lines of streets with line "B" or grade
of center line of Main Street, in feet above Datum, shall be as follows, using
figures in excess of four thousand feet (4,000'):
Center of Main St in line with S. line of Blocks 47 and 48   67.21
Fir Street                                                     66.88
Elm Street                                                     66.51
Date Street                                                    66.15
Cedar Street                                                   65.75
Birch Street                                                   65.41
Ash Street                                                     65.05
Main Street and line Railway Avenue                            64.97
 
(1977 Code § 10.02.040)
8-3-5: IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements hereafter made on Main Street shall conform to this Chapter
and the rules and regulations promulgated by the City Council, then reported to
and approved by the City Council and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(1977 Code § 10.02.050)
8-3-6: PENALTY:
All persons convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 10.02.060; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Obstructing Streets And Grounds Prohibited
8-4-2: Builders And Contractors Obstructing Streets
8-4-3: Unloading Of Materials
8-4-4: Fence Around Excavation Area
8-4-5: Wagons, Sleighs, Or Carriages On Streets
8-4-6: Deposit Of Boxes, Barrels
8-4-7: Playing Ball In Streets
8-4-8: Obstructions During Excavation
8-4-9: Stands, Booths On Streets
8-4-10: Owner Responsibility
8-4-11: Neglecting To Remove Obstructions
8-4-12: Penalty
8-4-1: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND GROUNDS PROHIBITED:
The streets, avenues, alleys and other public grounds in the city shall be kept
free and clear of all obstructions, encumbrances and "encroachments of every
kind" and character whatsoever for the use of the public, and shall not be used
or occupied in any other way than is provided by law and the ordinances of the
city. (1977 Code § 10.04.010)
8-4-2: BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
It shall be unlawful hereafter for any builder, contractor, person, company or
corporation to build, erect, place or locate, or cause to be built, erected,
placed or located any building, fence, or obstruction, encumbrance or
encroachment of any kind or character whatsoever, in whole or in part, upon any
street, avenue, alley or other public grounds within the corporate limits of
the city. (1977 Code § 10.04.020; amd. 2000 Code)
8-4-3: UNLOADING OF MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any builder, contractor, person, company or
corporation to encumber or obstruct, or make any encroachments upon, or cause
to be encumbered or obstructed, or cause to be made any "encroachments, in any
manner" whatever, upon any street, avenue, alley or other public grounds in the
city, by unloading, depositing or placing therein or thereon any building
material of whatever kind, or any article or thing whatever, tending to
obstruct, encumber or encroach thereon, without first having obtained written
permission therefor as provided in this chapter. (1977 Code § 10.04.030; amd.
2000 Code)
8-4-4: FENCE AROUND EXCAVATION AREA:
No city officer, builder, contractor, person, company or corporation shall make
any excavation, or dig any shaft, hole, drain or ditch in any street, avenue,
alley or other public grounds of the city without providing, during the
continuance of such excavation, shaft, hole, drain or ditch, a temporary fence
around or in front of the same, and also hanging red lights about said fence
and deposits of materials, from dark to daylight of each day, so as to be
plainly seen from every direction of public approach, and so long as said
excavation or obstruction shall continue in the sidewalk, street or avenue, in
order to prevent persons, animals or vehicles from falling or being driven into
the same. (1977 Code § 10.04.070; amd. 2000 Code)
8-4-5: WAGONS, SLEIGHS, OR CARRIAGES ON STREETS:
   A.   Prohibition: No wagon, sleigh, sled, carriage, or nonmotorized vehicle
of any kind or description, without horses or other beasts of burden, shall be
permitted to remain or stand in any street, avenue, alley, or on any public
grounds within the limits of the city, except for the purpose of being
repaired, and then only in front of the premises of the person so repairing,
and within twenty feet (20') of the property line of said premises. (1977 Code
§ 10.04.040; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Removal Authorized: Any such wagon, sleigh, sled, carriage, or other
vehicle, or any part of the same may be removed by a police officer; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to automobiles or
motorcycles when in use and left standing temporarily. (1977 Code § 10.04.040;
amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
8-4-6: DEPOSIT OF BOXES, BARRELS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit empty boxes of any kind
whatever, barrels, straw, dirt, filth, chips, shavings, paper or other rubbish
in any street, avenue, alley or on any public grounds in the city. (1977 Code §
10.04.080; amd. 2000 Code)
8-4-7: PLAYING BALL IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any game of ball, or throw or
bat any ball, or to play at or engage in any other games in or upon any street
or avenue of the city, or engage in or upon any street or avenue of the city in
any sport or act or pastime having a tendency to frighten horses or damage any
property upon or along said streets or avenues. (1977 Code § 10.04.090; amd.
2000 Code)
8-4-8: OBSTRUCTIONS DURING EXCAVATION:
   A.   Permit Required; Restrictions: Any builder, contractor, person, company
or corporation who shall desire to occupy or obstruct any part of any sidewalk,
street or avenue during the excavation for any building, or for the storage of
building materials for the construction, repair, or removal of any building
may, after having first procured a permit therefor from the city council,
occupy and obstruct for such purpose not more than one-third (1/3) of the width
of such street or avenue, including the sidewalk; and that portion of the
sidewalk, or street, so to be used, shall be only that portion directly in
front of the property to be improved, and no material shall be stored, placed
or piled upon the street or avenue, except such as is to be immediately used in
such improvement or construction.
   B.   Removal Of Rubbish: No rubbish removed from any excavation of a
building shall be allowed to be stored upon the street or avenue, but the same
shall be removed from day to day, and the permission hereby given shall
terminate with the completion of the intended improvement, and all obstructions
and materials shall be immediately removed therefrom. (1977 Code § 10.04.100;
amd. 2000 Code)
8-4-9: STANDS, BOOTHS ON STREETS:
No person, traveling merchant, hawker, peddler or any itinerant vendor of
goods, wares or merchandise, patent medicines, drugs, notions, or other
articles of commerce shall erect, build, keep or maintain in any manner
whatever a stand, place, booth or any arrangement or device whatever on Main
Street in the city, for the purpose of vending, selling, advertising, or
otherwise disposing of goods, wares or merchandise, patent medicines, drugs,
notions or other articles of commerce, nor for any commercial or amusement
purposes whatsoever without a special permit therefor from the mayor; provided,
however, that when a license is issued or granted to any of the persons for any
of the businesses or occupations as above specified in this section, they may
occupy any of the streets or avenues intersecting and crossing said Main Street
and far enough removed from the corner of said streets and avenues so as not to
interfere with the free passing to and from of vehicles and pedestrians on said
Main Street and the street crossings thereof. (1977 Code § 10.04.110; amd. 2000
Code)
8-4-10: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner or person in control of any building, fence, porch, steps, building
materials, gravel and sand for building purposes, or for any purpose whatever,
or any other obstructions, encumbrances and encroachments of every kind and
character now standing and being, or which may hereafter be standing, built,
erected or placed in or upon any street, avenue, alley, or other public grounds
within the city, or which may be left standing upon any new street, avenue,
alley, or other public grounds that has been, or may hereafter be opened, shall
remove the same within such reasonable time not exceeding thirty (30) days nor
less than five (5) days, as he shall be required so to do by a written notice
signed and served by a police officer. (1977 Code § 10.04.050; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009)
8-4-11: NEGLECTING TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Whenever the owner or person in control of any
building, fence, porch, steps, building materials, gravel and sand to be used
for building purposes, or for any purpose whatever, or other obstructions,
encumbrances and encroachments of every kind and character now standing and
being, or which may hereafter be standing, built, erected or placed in or upon
any street, avenue, alley, or public grounds in the city as specified in this
chapter, shall refuse or neglect to remove the same, after notice given as
prescribed in section
 8-4-10 of this chapter or, if the owner or person in control of the same
cannot be found for the purpose of such notice, the same shall be deemed a
nuisance. (1977 Code § 10.04.060; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Removal By City; Cost Assessed To Owner: It shall be lawful for a
police officer and it is hereby made his duty to cause the same to be removed
or taken down, in his discretion, and the expense thereof shall be recoverable
from the owner. (1977 Code § 10.04.060; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-
2009)
8-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2000 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NORTHWESTERN ENERGY CORPORATION
SECTION:
8-5-1: Franchise Granted; Term
8-5-2: Extend Gas Mains
8-5-3: Provide Sufficient Quantity Of Gas
8-5-4: Disturbing System
8-5-5: Work Done In Workmanlike Manner
8-5-6: Hold Harmless Agreement
8-5-7: Right To Make Assignments
8-5-8: Exclusive Rights Or Privileges
8-5-9: City Authority
8-5-10: Failure To Comply
8-5-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED; TERM:
There is hereby granted to the Montana Power Company, a corporation, its
successors and assigns, the right, privilege and franchise for the full period
of fifty (50) years from October 14, 1980, and thereafter until and unless
otherwise provided by ordinance to construct, equip, lay, maintain and operate
in, under, upon, over and across the streets, avenues, alleys, highways,
bridges, easements and other public places in the city, as now or hereafter
constituted, mains, pipes, conduits, manholes, reducing and regulating stations
and all other appurtenances and accessories for the purpose of transporting,
conveying, distributing, supplying and selling natural gas or artificial gas,
or a mixture of natural and artificial gas for light, heat, power and other
purposes, at rates fixed and allowed by the public service commission of
Montana. NorthWestern Energy Corporation (hereinafter called the "grantee") is
a successor in interest to Montana Power Company. Grantee agrees to file with
the city clerk the schedule of rates thus fixed and allowed. (Ord. 355-15, 2-
24-2015)
8-5-2: EXTEND GAS MAINS:
The grantee shall extend its gas mains and pipes to such parties of the city as
the consumption of gas shall justify. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-3: PROVIDE SUFFICIENT QUANTITY OF GAS:
The grantee, at all times during the existence of this franchise, shall use its
best efforts to obtain and supply a continuous, sufficient and adequate
quantity of gas for use by the city and its inhabitants; provided, however,
that the grantee shall in nowise be liable to the city or to its inhabitants
because of the interruption or discontinuance of the supply of gas by causes
beyond the reasonable control of the grantee. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-4: DISTURBING SYSTEM:
The grantee shall not discontinue the distribution of gas through its
distributing system, or any portion thereof, for an unreasonable length of time
for the purpose of making repairs and extensions, but the grantee shall not be
liable to the city or to any consumers for damages caused by such temporary
discontinuance or interruption of the delivery of gas, provided that such
repairs and extensions are made with reasonable diligence. (Ord. 195, 8-11-
1980)
8-5-5: WORK DONE IN WORKMANLIKE MANNER:
   A.   Performance In Workmanlike Manner: All work done in, under, upon, over
and across the present and future streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges,
easements and other public places in the city by the grantee for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this franchise shall be done and performed in a
good and workmanlike manner.
   B.   Restoration Of Street: When any street, alley, or other public place in
the city is excavated or damaged by the grantee by reason of such work, the
grantee shall restore such street, alley or public place to its former
condition as early as practicable.
   C.   Grade Or Plan Change: If at any time a change in the grade or plan of
any street, alley or public place shall be made by order of the proper city
officials, the grantee shall, without expense to the city, make such changes in
the location of its pipes and facilities as the change of the grade or plan of
the street, alley or public place makes necessary, which said changes shall be
made as soon as possible after the grantee shall have received notice from the
proper city official having the same in charge. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-6: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
The grantee shall hold the City harmless from all costs and damages which shall
or may accrue to the City by reason of the neglect, default or misconduct of
the grantee in connection with the exercise of its rights hereunder. (Ord. 195,
8-11-1980)
8-5-7: RIGHT TO MAKE ASSIGNMENTS:
The grantee is hereby given the right and authority to make assignments of this
right, privilege or franchise, and its rights hereunder, all assignees to be
bound to the same extent as the original grantee. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-8: EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS OR PRIVILEGES:
Nothing in this Chapter contained shall be held or construed to grant any
exclusive rights or privileges, but the City reserves to itself the right at
any time to make such other grants or extend such other privileges to any other
person, company or corporation for the use of its streets, alleys or other
public places, or any thereof, for the purposes in this Chapter expressed, or
for any other valid purpose as the City Council may by ordinance from time to
time determine. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-9: CITY AUTHORITY:
The City shall pass all ordinances necessary or suitable to protect the
property and rights of the grantee and to enable the grantee to enforce any of
its reasonable rules and regulations for the management, operation and control
of the service hereunder, and shall pass any reasonable ordinance that may be
necessary or suitable in order fully to confirm to the grantee the rights
herein or hereby granted or intended so to be. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
8-5-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Failure on the part of the grantee to comply in any substantial respect with
any of the provisions of this franchise shall be grounds for a forfeiture
thereof; but no such forfeiture shall take effect if the reasonableness or the
propriety thereof is protested by the grantee until and unless a court of
competent jurisdiction (with right of appeal in either party) shall have found
that the grantee has failed to comply in a substantial respect with any of the
provisions of this franchise, and grantee shall have six (6) months after the
final determination of said question to make good the default before a
forfeiture shall result, with the right in the City Council, at its discretion,
to grant such additional time to the grantee for compliance, as necessities in
the case may require. (Ord. 195, 8-11-1980)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Park Property; Regulations Authorized
8-6-4: Hours Of Operation Of Parks
8-6-5: Park Prohibitions
8-6-6: Park And Recreational Facility Reservations
8-6-7: Park And Recreational Facility Reservation Permits; Application Process
8-6-8: Fees
8-6-9: Enforcement
8-6-10: Revocation Of Permit
8-6-11: Penalty
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this section shall apply to all park lands in the city,
whether dedicated, deeded, or otherwise acquired for park purposes, and to all
facilities designated for city recreational purposes. Each application for use
of a park or recreational facility shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
This section seeks to impose reasonable time, place and conduct controls in an
appropriate and limited manner upon events and facility uses for which
reservations are required. This section shall be administered in a manner that
seeks to allow for expression, assembly, and the exercise of religious rights
in accordance with applicable constitutional and statutory limits and controls.
(Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
FIREWORKS:             The meaning stated in
                       6-2-3.
                       A park, playground, recreation facility, pond areas, or
PARK:                  any other area in the city, developed or undeveloped,
                       owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or
                       passive recreation.
                       Any meeting, march, demonstration, picket line, race/
                       marathon, rally, or gathering of more than 75 persons
                       for a common purpose as a result of prior planning that
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY:       affects or may reasonably be expected to affect the
                       normal flow or regulation of pedestrian or vehicular
                       traffic within a park or recreational facility, or
                       occupies any park or recreational facility in a place
                       open to the general public.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY: A building, structure, place or other location within a
                       park or under the management of the city.
                       Any group or organization that is given use of a park
USER GROUP:            for an extended period of time through a park
                       reservation.(Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-
                       2018, 8-28-2018)
 
8-6-3: PARK PROPERTY; REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED:
The City Council shall have the right to adopt reasonable regulations governing
the use of the public parks in the city, and no person shall violate any of
such regulations. The Council appoints the Mayor, or his/her designee, to
administer the general provisions of this section. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018;
amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-4: HOURS OF OPERATION OF PARKS:
   A.   Hours: All parks shall be open to the public every day of the year
subject to the exceptions established herein. Anyone under the age of eighteen
(18) must adhere to the laws defined in Title
6-3-7 &
6-3-8.
   B.   General Closure: Any section or part of any park may be closed to the
public by the Mayor. Notice of closing shall be posted in a conspicuous manner.
   C.   Night Closure: No person without written permission of the Mayor shall
be physically present within the boundaries of any park between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-6-5: PARK PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person in a park or adjacent to a recreational
facility to:
      1.   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove
any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, grills, railings, paving or paving
material, water lines, equipment, signs, drinking fountains, swimming or wading
pools or other park or recreational facility property, improvements or
appurtenances whatsoever, real or personal;
      2.   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat
and sanitary condition.
      3.   Dump dirt, grass and tree clippings or dig, remove, plant or deposit
any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or other wood or
materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment or other means or agency
except as authorized by the Mayor.
      4.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary, or run or string any public utility into, upon
or across park or recreational facility property, except on special written
permit issued hereunder.
      5.   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or injure
the bark, dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure
the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
      6.   Attach any rope, cable, structure, device or other contrivance to
any tree, fence, railing, bridge, bench, building or other structure unless
otherwise posted. This prohibition does not include locking bicycles to the
foregoing mentioned structures as long as no damage is done to the structure
and so long as the bicycle does not interfere with the use and enjoyment of the
park by others.
      7.   Litter or fail to refuse to deposit litter in provided garbage
receptacles. Where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
      8.   Break glass objects and then fail to remove broken glass and safely
dispose of the broken glass in such fashion so as not to cause injury to
persons or property.
      9.   Cause or permit any domestic animal to run loose, or fail to keep
such animal under restraint as per Title 6-4C, in any park or other open space
area designated by the City Council as an area requiring restraint as per Title
6-4A. The above provision shall not apply to service animals authorized under
the Americans with Disabilities Act. Further, every owner or person having
custody of said dog or other animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal's solid waste (fecal material).
      10.   Pasture or pen any animal, domesticated or wild.
      11.   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease,
shoot or throw missiles at any animal, nor remove from the park or have in his
possession any animal, or the eggs or nest, or young of any animal. An
exception to the foregoing is made in that snakes known to be poisonous may be
killed on sight. An exception is further made to fishing where allowed by the
state department of fish, wildlife and parks. This regulation does not apply to
officers of state or local government duly acting within the course and scope
of their duties.
      12.   Start a fire except in facilities installed and provided for such
purpose, or to fail to completely extinguish a fire upon leaving the park.
      13.   Camp overnight as per Titles
5-8-2 and
7-2-5-E.
      14.   Display, offer to sell, or sell any article or service without
first obtaining permission by the City Council pursuant to this chapter,
exception of the Three Forks Chamber of Commerce's Farmer's Market.
      15.   Operate a skateboard, roller skate, inline skate, ride a bike or
similar recreational device with wheels on any tennis court, basketball court,
or in any drained swimming pool.
      16.   Operate a skateboard, rollerskate, inline skate, or ride a bike or
similar recreational device with wheels on or against any city-owned table,
bench, structure, tennis court, bike rack, parking stop, retaining wall,
fountain, statue, railing, stage, or other improvement which may suffer damage
by such use.
      17.   Operate a skateboard, rollerskate, inline skate, or ride a bike or
similar recreational device with wheels on or in any pavilion.
      18.   Practice golf with real golf balls in any park.
      19.   Drive, operate or park any vehicle or trailer on park lands or
trails, except as authorized by the Mayor.
   B.   The Mayor may create additional prohibitions which may be applicable to
one or more parks or recreation facilities. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd.
Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-6: PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY RESERVATIONS:
The following standards apply to the use, including the reserved use, of all
parks and recreational facilities:
   A.   Reservation Priority: Unless reserved according to the park reservation
procedure, established herein, the use of the park or portion thereof by the
public shall be on a first-come, first-served basis.
   B.   Scope: Only parks and recreational facilities designated within the
City of Three Forks' fee schedule resolution may be reserved for exclusive use.
   C.   Tents, canopies, inflatable structures: Approval must be granted by the
Mayor for the use of, and prior to the assembly of, any tents, canopies, shade
structures, inflatable toys, etc., within a park.
   D.   Public address or sound systems: Public address and/or sound systems
may be used within parks with the approval of the Mayor. The sound system
cannot be used for more than three consecutive hours in any park. The use of
amplified sound shall be limited to the hours between 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 9:
00 p.m.
   E.   Marking the grounds: Only water-based turf paint shall be used on any
turf. Only chalk shall be used on impervious surfaces such as sidewalks and
asphalt.
   F.   Park user group agreements: The Mayor may enter into agreements with
various park user groups, with the fee for such agreements as established by
the City Council.
      1.   Admission fees may be charged for events held in conjunction with a
park user group agreement if approved by the Mayor and listed in the agreement.
      2.   Articles, food, beverages or service may be sold for events held in
conjunction with a park user group agreement, if so noted in the agreement.
   G.   Parking: Parking spaces at a park or recreational facility are not
reserved with a park reservation permit, and all parking is on a first-come,
first-served basis. Issuance of park reservation permit does not provide
guarantee of parking to the permittee or invitees.
   H.   Portable toilet facilities: The Mayor may require a person holding a
reservation permit to provide portable toilet facilities. The Mayor shall
determine how many such facilities are needed and the timeframe in which they
must be present. If the facilities are not removed within the timeframe
established, the city may remove them and all costs associated with removal
shall be charged to the applicant.
   I.   Litter removal: A person holding a reservation permit shall pick up and
properly dispose of all types of litter within the recreational facility,
buildings and/or grounds.
   J.   Additional rules: The Mayor and/or Council may establish additional
rules governing the use of a park or recreational facility by the public or a
person holding a reserved use permit. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-
2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-7: PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY RESERVATION PERMITS; APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   A person seeking a park or recreational facility reservation permit
shall file an application with the City Clerk on forms provided by the City and
shall include all information the City deems relevant to the requested event.
Applicants must be at least 18 years of age.
   B.   An application for a reservation permit shall be filed with the City no
less than five (5) working days prior to the event.
      1.   Exception: The City will allow reservations with fewer than five (5)
working days notice if the event anticipates a small number of participants and
would have minimal impact to the neighboring community and minimal disturbance
of other public to use the rest of the park.
   C.   Standards of issuance of reservation permit:
      1.   The Mayor shall issue a permit, subject to any conditions deemed
necessary and reasonable, as provided for herein when, from consideration of
the application and such other information as may otherwise be obtained, the
Mayor finds:
         a.   The application is complete and sets forth accurately and in
sufficient detail the information required for consideration;
         b.   The conduct of the event will not unduly inconvenience either the
public in using adjacent public areas normally open for general public use or
the city in the conduct of governmental operations;
         c.   The possibility of the event causing any noise which unreasonably
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
      2.   The conduct of the event will not require law enforcement's presence
to properly police the event as to prevent normal protection of the city;
      3.   The conduct of the event is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property;
      4.   Adequate sanitation and other required health facilities (park
latrines or "port-a-potties") are or will be made available;
      5.   There is sufficient parking near the site of the event, or other
arrangements made for transportation, to accommodate the number of vehicles
reasonably expected;
      6.   Such event is not for the primary purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event that is primarily for private profit.
      7.   A reservation for public assembly permit for the same time and
general location is already granted or has been received and will be granted;
      8.   The conduct of a past event for the same purpose or by the same
organizer and/or organization.
      9.   The permittee obtain insurance which names the City of Three Forks
as an additional insured without limitation in the amounts set by the City.
   D.   An event may be limited as to the number of participants in the
interest of adequacy of facilities.
   E.   Unless otherwise agreed by the applicant, the Mayor shall act on an
application within 1 business day after determining that the application is
complete. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-8: FEES:
A nonrefundable fee shall be paid to cover administrative costs of processing
permits. The fee under this article shall be set by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-9: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced by the Mayor, or his/her designee, law
enforcement, or the fire chief. In addition this article may be enforced by
injunction, restraining order, declaratory relief, or such other order as may
be imposed by a court with appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018;
amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Mayor, or his/her designee, law enforcement, or the fire chief shall each
have independent authority to instantly revoke or suspend any permit issued
under this article:
   A.   Upon a violation of the conditions imposed in the permit;
   B.   Upon violation of this article or any other provision of law;
   C.   When a public emergency arises where the municipal resources required
for that emergency are so great that deployment of municipal personnel,
equipment or services required for the permit would have an immediate and
adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons or property.
   D.   Such revocation shall take effect immediately, and the Mayor, law
enforcement, or fire chief shall promptly notify the permittee of revocation.
After revocation, the permittee may not conduct the event, or if the event has
commenced, shall immediately cause the event to be terminated in a safe, proper
manner.  (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-6-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter will be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 382-2018, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord. 382-2018, 8-28-2018)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
DELINQUENT UTILITY BILLS 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Interest
9-1-2: Service Charge
9-1-3: Tenants Receiving Disconnect Notice
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2-3, rule 4, of this title.
9-1-1: INTEREST:
The city council does hereby assess an interest rate of one and one-half
percent (11/2%) a month on all utility bills that remain unpaid on the twenty
first day of each month. Payment is due the twentieth day of each month and the
interest shall commence on the first day after payment is due. (Ord. 295-06-07,
10-10-2006)
9-1-2: SERVICE CHARGE:
A service charge of ten dollars ($10.00) will be assessed on every utility bill
not paid by the twentieth day of each month to recover for the city the cost of
personnel and materials in notifying utility customers of their delinquent
obligations. (Ord. 294-06-07, 10-10-2006)
9-1-3: TENANTS RECEIVING DISCONNECT NOTICE:
   A.   Tenants who receive a disconnect notice two (2) times within their
residency on the landowner's property will no longer have the water and/or
sewer account in their own name; the account will be placed in the landowner's
name and become the responsibility of the landowner.
   B.   Any utility customer that receives a disconnect notice will be required
to pay the account balance in full by the disconnect date or the water and/or
sewer service will be turned off. (Ord. 300-07-08, 8-11-2008)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: City Clerk, Duties
9-2-2: Water/Wastewater Operator
9-2-3: Water System Rules
9-2-4: Rules Regulating Plumbing
9-2-5: Council Review And Control
9-2-6: Water Rates And Charges
9-2-7: Fire Hydrants And Valves
9-2-8: Enforcement; Duties Of Law Enforcement
9-2-9: Connection With City Water System Required
9-2-10: Sand Point Well Connections
9-2-11: Penalties
9-2-12: Temporary Suspension Of Water And Utility Services
9-2-13: Consent To Annexation For Continued Service
9-2-1: CITY CLERK, DUTIES:
The city clerk shall be the custodian of all books, records and papers
pertaining to the water system and shall keep a correct account of all receipts
and disbursements with reference thereto, and shall issue all bills for water
rents and materials furnished to commercial relations with consumers, and make
all reports required by law. All receipts from the operation of the water
system shall be kept in a separate fund to be known as the water fund 1 . (1977
Code § 2.34.010; amd. 2000 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
9-2-2: WATER/WASTEWATER OPERATOR:
   A.   Appointment; Salary; Term: The mayor shall at the first regular meeting
of the city council each fiscal year, or as soon thereafter as possible,
appoint, subject to the confirmation of the council, a water/wastewater
operator. The council shall fix his salary or compensation, and he shall
perform all the duties prescribed and defined as herein provided. He shall
serve until removed by the council, or until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (1977 Code § 2.34.020; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Management Of Waterworks Plant: The water/wastewater operator shall
be the general executive officer of the waterworks plant and shall have
immediate control and management of all things pertaining to said plant,
subject to the approval and confirmation of the council. (1977 Code § 2.34.030;
amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   Charge Of Employees: The water/wastewater operator shall have charge
of all employees and property pertaining to the system. He shall give written
orders for all supplies and materials, furnishing a copy of each to the city
clerk for record. He shall have charge of all contracts and shall see that they
are faithfully executed, and shall have charge of the erection, alteration, and
repair of all buildings, engines, pumps, fixtures, wells, reservoirs and
grounds. He shall determine the location and size of all water mains, service
connections, valves, hydrants and specials.
      3.   Records: He shall furnish promptly to the city clerk a report of all
physical changes in items which are a matter of record in said clerk's office.
He shall submit all bills, payrolls and accounts to the council for approval.
      4.   Tapping Mains: Upon notification of the city clerk of the issuance
of a permit to a consumer for service connection, the water/wastewater operator
shall furnish to the consumer any material specified by the city clerk and
shall tap the main and inspect the service installation.
      5.   Reports: The water/wastewater operator shall furnish to the mayor or
city council any regular or specific reports concerning his work upon demand of
the council.
      6.   Pump Record: The water/wastewater operator shall maintain a daily
pump record of each pump, the pressure maintained and the number of gallons
pumped, submitting regularly, to the city clerk such of this information as may
be required by the clerk.
      7.   Gates And Hydrants: The water/wastewater operator shall see that all
gates and hydrants are restored to their proper condition after use by the fire
department, attending promptly to any necessary repairs. It shall be his duty
also to test and flush the fire hydrants of the city whenever such testing and
flushing seems essential to service.
      8.   Inspection: Whenever in the judgment of the water/wastewater
operator, as he deems it necessary, he may cause an inspection of the pipes and
water fixtures of any consumer, and the refusal of any consumer to permit such
inspection at a reasonable time shall be sufficient cause for refusing service.
The water/wastewater operator shall be vigilant to detect and eliminate all
abuses, whether from waste or improper use of water.
      9.   Meters: The water/wastewater operator shall cause all meters to be
read and inspected monthly and shall furnish to the city clerk a copy of these
readings together with a record of all changes in installations. It shall be
the duty of the water/wastewater operator to cause the prompt repair of all
meters suspected of inaccurate measurement and he shall report to the city
clerk all items used in the repair of meters and the amounts to be charged the
consumer for these items.
      10.   Service Control: The water/wastewater operator shall cause
consumer's services to be turned on or off promptly at the request of the city
clerk, giving a report of the work when done and shall not at any time except
in case of emergency, open or close any consumer's service line without the
knowledge and consent of the clerk. (1977 Code § 2.34.040; amd. 2000 Code)
9-2-3: WATER SYSTEM RULES:
In the interest of control and protection of the water system, the following
rules shall be considered a part of the contract with every person who accepts
water service as supplied by the City, and all persons accepting said service
shall be bound by these rules:
   Rule 1. Applications; Payment of Fee: Applications for new connections to
the mains or alterations in old connections must be made at the City Clerk’s
office on the printed form furnished for that purpose. The application must be
made by the owner or agent for the property to be served and must be
accompanied by the connection fee before connection will be authorized. This
fee shall be established by the City Council and include the cost of certain
standardized items of material that will be furnished to the applicant for use
in the service line and connection. The use of the furnished items is
mandatory.
   Rule 2. Additional Service; Permit For Extensions: Should the owner of the
property or his agent desire additional service or desire to apply water for a
purpose not intended in the original application, a permit must be obtained
before extensions are made.
   Rule 3. Termination Of Service By Consumer: Upon payment of service charges
to date of notice and presentation of written notice to the city clerk,
consumers may at any time terminate service. Water rentals will be charged
until such notice is filed. No charge will be made for turning water off or on
when the account is not in arrears but no remission of the minimum charge will
be made for less than one calendar month.
   Rule 4. Consumer Payments: Service charges must be paid monthly. Accounts
not paid by the twentieth of the month following notification of the consumer
are presumed to have been received by the person for whom they were intended.
Accounts which have been terminated because of delinquency in payment must be
paid in full together with a service charge of forty dollars ($40.00) before
service will be restored. All persons not in the employ of the city water
department are forbidden to open, close or in any manner change or disturb the
curb valve or any consumer’s service line.
   Rule 5. Location of Service Pipes: No permits shall be issued for service
connections when said services are to run across adjacent property or through
buildings on the same property. Service pipes must be laid at least six-and-
one-half feet (6.5') below the surface and not in the same trench with the
sewer pipes. Service pipes may enter the building at any point designated by
the owner of the property or his agent and all risk due to freezing of such
pipes and meters shall be assumed by the said property owner.
   Rule 6. Connected Premises: Two (2) or more premises of different ownership
shall not be supplied by the same connection (see Rule 1 of this Section)
unless the services are so installed that each is controlled by a separate curb
valve. In all cases, the owner of the property served shall be responsible for
all water used either by himself or any others to whom the water is accessible.
   Rule 7. Stop And Waste: Immediately ahead of every meter, a stop and waste
valve must be installed and in service lines entering basement, this valve
should be located immediately beyond the point of entry. These valves must be
provided with handles or wrenches for their operation and when not supplied by
the City, shall be of a form and quality specified by the Water/Wastewater
Operator. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to familiarize
themselves with the uses and purposes of these valves and to report any fault
in their operation. No responsibility for damage will be assumed by the City
through failure of the owner or occupant of the premises to use the stop and
waste valve in stopping leaks or draining pipes and meters to prevent freezing.
   Rule 8. Ball Valves: Immediately ahead of every meter a ball valve must be
installed. These valves must be provided with handles for their operation and
when not supplied by the City, shall be of a form and quality specified by the
Water Superintendent. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to
familiarize themselves with the uses and purposes of these valves and to report
any fault in their operation. No responsibility for damage will be assumed by
the City through failure of the owner or occupant of the premises to use the
ball valve in stopping leaks or draining pipes and meters to prevent freezing.
   Rule 9. Private Hydrants: No private hydrants shall be located within the
street lines or in any place easy of access to the public unless the same is
metered and then only by special permit.
   Rule 10. Responsibility For Service Pipes And Fixtures: The City will not be
responsible for service pipes and fixtures. Owners, at their own expense, must
keep service pipes and fixtures from the mains in good working order and
properly protected from frost and other dangers. No claim shall be made against
the City on account of failure of any service pipe or fixture or for the
accidental failure in the supply of water. No reductions from the regular rates
will be made for any time that service pipes or fixtures are out of commission
due to frost.
   Rule 11. Special Permit; Large Quantities Of Water: A special permit must be
obtained from the Water/Wastewater Operator before water meters or other
service requiring larger quantities of water are installed.
   Rule 12. Hose For Sprinkling: Hose used for sprinkling purposes must not be
more than three-fourths inch (3/4") inside diameter and the inside diameter of
the orifice or the nozzle of the same must not be more than one-half inch (½")
in diameter.
   Rule 13. Unnecessary Use Of Water: Consumers shall prevent the unnecessary
waste of water in lawn or garden sprinkling, washing of vehicles or other
similar uses of hose, and shall keep all water outlets closed when not in
actual use. Hydrants, basins, urinals, water closets, bathtubs or any other
openings must not be left running to prevent water freezing in pipes, or for
any other unnecessary waste, and when consumers persist in a wasteful use of
water, the City reserves the right to cut off the supply, and repeated
violation of this rule will subject the offender to prosecution as hereinafter
provided.
   Rule 14. Alarm Of Fire: During alarms of fire the use of hose, yard
fountains and all other outlets where a constant flow of water is maintained is
forbidden. This rule will be strictly enforced and will subject offenders to
prosecution.
   Rule 15. Water For Building Purposes: Contractors, builders or others
desiring water for building purposes must make application to the Water/
Wastewater Operator, who will issue a permit therefor, and all consumers are
warned not to allow them to use their fixtures. Water will not be turned on in
any new building until all water used in construction thereof has been paid
for. Owners are recommended to require contractors to show a receipt in full
for water used for building purposes before making final settlement, as the
property is held for such rental.
   Rule 16. Authorized Employees: No person other than authorized employee of
the Water Department shall make any tap or connection with any main or mains or
with any distributing pipe of the water system.
   Rule 17. Accidents From Boilers And Pressure: The City will not be
responsible for accidents resulting from insecure boilers or for variation of
water pressure, or the ram from water in the mains, or collapse from any cause
whatever.
   Rule 18. Shutting Off Of Water In Mains: The City reserves the right at any
time to shut the water off in the mains for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions or for any other needful purpose and consumers will be so notified,
but no claim shall be made against the City on account of the breakage of any
service pipe or service cock or for any other damage that may result from
shutting off water for necessary repairs, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or
other connections.
   Rule 19. Meters; Regulations and Charges: Meters will be placed on all
services as directed by the Water/Wastewater Operator. Each metered consumer is
subject to the minimum charge for such class of service as he receives. In
Residential Zoning Districts, and in all mobile home parks, multi-family
structures which have one meter shall be subject to the minimum water charge
for each residential unit, regardless of meter status. Rates for additional
water are shown in Section
9-2-6 of this Chapter. In all cases where a meter is installed, the consumer
must furnish proper protection from frost or other damage, and the meter must
be located where it is easily accessible for reading purposes and repairs.
Where necessary for protection, a standard form of meter box will be required
by the Water Department. The actual cost of the same shall be paid by the
consumer. After such receptacle is placed, the Water Department will furnish
and connect the meter and maintain the same in good condition under ordinary
wear and tear. When a meter is installed at the request of a consumer, its
installation shall be permanent unless the consumer elects to have same removed
and pays all expenses incident to the installation and removal of same or
discontinues service entirely. Service on a meter for a shorter period than six
(6) months will be considered temporary and in such cases, the consumer will be
required to reimburse the Water Department for the actual cost of the labor in
connection with the installation and removal of the meter.
   Rule 20. Replacing And Testing: The Water Department may replace any meter
at such time as it may see fit and shall be the judge of the size and make of
any meter installed. In case of a dispute as to the accuracy of a meter, the
customer, upon depositing the estimated cost of making a test, may demand that
the meter be removed and tested as to accuracy in his presence. In case the
meter is found to be registering correctly or in favor of the consumer, the
cost of such testing and replacing of the meter shall be borne by the consumer.
In case the meter is found to be registering incorrectly and against the
consumer, the amount deposited by the consumer will be refunded and a
reasonable adjustment made for overcharges, for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days previous to the demand of the consumer for a test to be made. In case
a meter is found stopped for any reason, so that it is not correctly recording
the consumption of water, the Water Department may average the amount due for
the current month, using the past two (2) months as a basis of average.
   Rule 21. Interference With Meters: Water consumers are not permitted to
interfere in any way with the meter after it has been set in place. In case the
meter seal is broken or the working parts of the meter have been tampered with
or the meter damaged, the Water Department may render a bill for the current
month, based on the average of the past two (2) months, together with the full
cost of such damages as have been done to the meter, and may refuse to furnish
water until the account is paid in full.
   Rule 22. Placing of Meters: Where practicable, meters may be placed in a
location with easy access for reading and maintenance. In Residential Zoning
Districts all new multifamily residential structures shall have a meter
installed on each unit. The meter must be placed so as to be of easy access to
the officers of the Water Department, and must be carefully protected from
freezing and from other dangers. Before setting any meter, the pipes must be
blown out, and the meter must be set without the use of red lead or any other
substance for packing in the fitting. The meter must be set level and made
firm, suitable supports being provided when necessary. All new water hookups
shall have a double check-valve backflow prevention assembly installed
downstream of the water meter.
   Rule 23. Meters Outside of Buildings: When meters must be located on the
outside of buildings, they need to be placed in an approved meter pit or
structure approved by the Water/Wastewater Operator. The approved meter pit or
structure shall have a cover with easy access.
   Rule 24. Check Valves On Meters: In all cases, if meters are placed on pipes
connected to boilers or other hot-water apparatus, a check valve must be placed
between said meter and such boiler, or other hot-water apparatus, to protect
the meter from back pressure of steam or hot water.
   Rule 25. Rules Regulating Plumbing: Rules regulating plumbing work upon any
of the water mains, connections or appliances in any way pertaining to the
water system of the City are set forth in Section
9-2-4 of this Chapter. (1977 Code § 2.34.050; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 293-06-07,
10-10-2006; Ord. 390-2021, 8-10-2021; Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-2022)
9-2-4: RULES REGULATING PLUMBING:
The following rules shall be strictly adhered to by all persons performing any
plumbing work in and upon any of the mains, connections or appliances
appertaining to the waterworks system of Three Forks.
   Rule 1. Refilling Of Trenches: All trenches shall be refilled in a careful
and workmanlike manner, tamped (thoroughly wet down when weather conditions
will permit) so as to replace as nearly as possible all material excavated and
leave the surface of the street in as good condition as before commencing work.
Special care shall be observed with trenches within the street lines and all
surplus material must be removed when work is completed, and any refilling
necessary to maintain the highway in as good condition as before commencing
work for a period of three (3) months shall be done by the person causing the
excavation.
   Rule 2. Tapping Done By Water Department: No person other than an authorized
employee of the Water Department, acting under the orders of the Water/
Wastewater Operator, shall tap or make any perforation or opening of any kind
in any water main.
   Rule 3. Materials Supplied by Water Department: The Water Department
recommends that the owner and/or contractor supply all the materials for
installation according to City standards. If necessary, the Water Department
can supply the materials. There will be an additional charge for all materials
supplied. All connections will be performed by City Personnel, or authorized
agent, of the Water Department to the City main.
   Rule 4. Depth of Service Pipes: All service pipes must be laid at least six
and one-half (6 ½') feet below the surface of the ground. The general rules and
regulations respecting the kind and quality of material to be used and the
manner and the location of setting shut-off and curb boxes shall govern.
   Rule 5. Barricades And Danger Signals: Excavations within the street lines
shall be made in such manner as to impede traffic as little as possible, and
the Water/Wastewater Operator may determine and limit the time such excavations
may remain open and if unnecessarily delayed, he may direct that the force be
increased to such an extent as will hasten the work to completion. Red light
must be maintained upon all unfinished work from sundown to sunrise, and
sufficient barricades must be in place at all times until the work is
completed.
   Rule 6. Alterations, Additions And Disconnections: No alteration, addition
or disconnection in or about any water pipes or fixtures shall be made without
written permission to do such work being granted by the Water/Wastewater
Operator.
   Rule 7. Written Report: Within twenty four (24) hours after completion of
any work in connection with the water supply of any consumer, either for new
work, extensions, additional fixtures or repairs, a written report shall be
completed by the person doing the work and returned to the Water/Wastewater
Operator upon blanks furnished for that purpose, covering all improvements made
under the permit therefor.
   Rule 8. Excavations: Excavations underneath the sidewalk or areaways shall
not be made until after the tap at the main has been made, in order that the
highway may not be obstructed any longer than is absolutely necessary.
   Rule 9. Time of Tapping: The Water Department will require forty-eight (48)
hours’ notice before tapping mains, and in no case will taps be made on
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.
   Rule 10. Leaks Or Accidents: In case of leaks and other accidents to pipes
or fixtures, the water may be shut off to make necessary repairs, and a report
of the same shall be made and filed as provided in Rule 7 of this Section. In
all cases where repairs to pipes or fixtures are made on any premises, the
water shall be left turned on or off as it was before such repairs were made.
   Rule 11. Pipe Joints: Where iron pipes are to be joined together, either
brass soldering nipple or brass soldering union must be used. Wiped joints will
not be permitted on iron pipes or iron connections.
   Rule 12. Testing New Work: In no case after the completion and test of work,
if it be the first introduction of service pipe, shall the water be left turned
on at the premises, but the stopcock shall be immediately closed.
   Rule 13. Water/Wastewater Operator’s Control: The water/wastewater operator,
under the direction of the city council, shall have absolute control of the
entire waterworks system and all buildings and property pertaining to the
system.
   Rule 14. Extensions From One Street Number To Another: Service pipes shall
not be extended from one street number to another without special permission
therefor.
   Rule 15. Water And Sewer Pipes In Same Trench: Water pipes shall not be laid
in the same trench with the sewer pipes, but an entirely separate trench must
in all cases be provided for their accommodation.
   Rule 16. Separate Service Pipes: In piping buildings where various floors or
apartments are to be supplied from a separate service, the plans shall first be
submitted to the water/wastewater operator and approved by him.
   Rule 17. Ball valves: In all cases where water pipes enter a building, such
pipes must be supplied with a ball valve with handle or wrench fixed thereto as
provided in Rule 19 of this section.
   Rule 18. Setting Of Meters: The setting of meters will be governed by
section
9-2-3, rules 25, 26, and 27 of this chapter.
   Rule 19. Curb Box Lids: The opening of curb box lids by any other means than
a proper wrench is strictly forbidden and anyone violating this rule will be
held responsible for all damages occasioned thereby.
   Rule 20. Master Plumbers: Master plumbers will be held responsible for their
workmen and for each and every violation of any of the rules and regulations of
this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties prescribed herein.
   Rule 21. Inspection: The Water/Wastewater Operator may adopt such rules and
regulations as deemed necessary to provide and ensure proper inspection of the
work and no material shall be used until same has been approved. No pipe shall
be covered until such inspection and approval has been made. The Water/
Wastewater Operator must be given forty-eight (48) hours notice when work will
be ready for inspection, and when same has been inspected and approved. (1977
Code § 2.34.060; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-2022)
9-2-5: COUNCIL REVIEW AND CONTROL:
In all cases, wherein by these rules and regulations discretion is vested in
the water/wastewater operator, such discretion shall be subject to review and
control of the city council. (1977 Code § 2.34.070; amd. 2000 Code)
9-2-6: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Water Rates; Metered Water:
      1.   The rates, charges and rentals for the services and facilities
provided by the city water system shall be fixed and established by resolution
of the city council.
      2.   The monthly water use rate shall be fixed and established by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   Water Hookup Fees:
      1.   Hookup Fee: The fee for water hookups shall be the cost of all
materials, valves and parts and labor necessary to properly complete
construction of service. A fee for new water customers signing up for existing
services shall be fixed and established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Request for Hookup: Any request for water hookup shall be made to
the City Clerk, in writing on the application form provided by the City, at
least forty-eight (48) hours prior to commencement of installation. Utility
hookup will not occur during weekends, evenings, holidays or other time when
city personnel are unavailable for inspection.
      3.   Authorized Installers: Only those contractors, persons, firms, and
corporations who are bonded by a surety, authorized to conduct business within
the City and State are authorized to install the utility service. (Ord. 334-13,
4-9-2013; amd. Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-2022)
9-2-7: FIRE HYDRANTS AND VALVES:
No person, other than an authorized employee of the water department, members
of the fire department (when in discharge of their duties), or other person in
authority, shall open, close, turn or interfere with any fire hydrant, valve,
or curb stop belonging to the water works system. (1977 Code § 2.34.080; amd.
Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-2022)
9-2-8: ENFORCEMENT; DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    It shall be the duty of law enforcement officers to give vigilant aid
to the water/wastewater operator in the enforcement of all rules and
regulations and to this end they shall report all violations thereof which may
come to their attention.
   B.    The law enforcement officers shall work with the City Attorney at the
direction of the Mayor on enforcement issues. (1977 Code § 2.34.090; amd. 2000
Code; Ord. 313-09-10, 11-10-2009; Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-2-9: CONNECTION WITH CITY WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: All occupants, residents and owners of real property
located within the city which real property abuts or is adjacent to any water
transmission line of the city or any water line utilized by the city for
transmitting city water shall connect said real property and utilize the water
system as potable water for any structures located on said real property.
   B.   Existing Water Wells; Exception: Subsection A of this section shall not
apply to existing water well systems utilized by existing structures; however,
should the existing well fail or need substantial repair, then said water
system shall be attached to the city's water system.
   C.   Disconnection From Water System; Consent Required: It shall be unlawful
for any person to disconnect any water system from the present city water
system without the consent of the city. (Ord. 212, 8-10-1987)
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
provided for in section
 1-4-1 of this code per day for each day said section is violated and shall be
cause, under the zoning code 1 , for the issuance by the water/wastewater
operator of an order restricting or terminating the habitability of the
structure located on the described premises. (Ord. 212, 8-10-1987; amd. 2000
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
9-2-10: SAND POINT WELL CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be illegal and unlawful for any owner or occupant
of any real estate lot within the city to install a sand point well or any
other device which utilizes subterranean water in such a manner that the sand
point well or water system will be connected at any point to the water system
of the city or the individual water system of any occupant of real estate
within the city.
   B.   Disconnection of System by City: In addition to the penalty herein, the
City may disconnect, at the curb stop, the individual water system from the
central water system of the City.
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Under the provisions of this section,
each twenty four (24) hour period in which the sand point well or other device
is connected to the water system shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
211, 8-10-1987; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-2022)
9-2-11: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person, firm, corporation, architect, plumber or
contractor, or other person who shall be found guilty of violating any of the
rules and regulations of this chapter, or who shall fail or neglect to comply
with the provisions contained therein, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, however, that when the offense is one which
relates to rentals, leakage or illegal use of water, the water/wastewater
operator may cause the supply to be shut off and the offender shall forfeit all
payments that may have been made for same. When the water has been turned off
for violation of this chapter, it shall not be turned on again until all
amounts due have been paid and a charge of forty dollars ($40.00) will be added
to cover the cost of turning the water off and on 1 . (1977 Code § 2.34.150;
amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 293-06-07, 10-10-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2-3, rule 4 of this chapter.
9-2-12: TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF WATER AND UTILITY SERVICES:
   A.   Any request for the activation or turning on, or the suspension or
turning off of water services after four o’clock (4:00) P.M. or on weekends
shall not occur unless the fee, established via resolution by the City Council,
has been paid.
   B.   Any request for the activation or turning on of water at a location
where suspension of service has occurred due to nonpayment by the user shall
not occur unless the entire past due bill and a reconnection fee, established
via resolution by the City Council, has been paid. This reconnection fee is in
addition to the after four o’clock (4:00) P.M. or weekend fee.
   C.   City staff may, after appropriate investigation based upon need and
hardship, waive all or a portion of the fees assessed in this section with the
consent and approval of the Mayor.
   D.   If a customer or property owner desires to have their water service
turned off, either temporarily (“snowbird”) or permanently, they must sign and
submit this request on the forms prepared and approved by the City. Failure to
sign and submit such request will mean that the utility service will remain in
existence and the minimum monthly charge will be assessed.
   E.   Should a property owner or customer request water only service during
construction, such service will only be provided after execution and submission
to the city of Three Forks on forms approved by the city of such service
accompanied by the applicable fee, if any.
   F.   Only employees of the city of Three Forks are authorized to access,
turn on or turn off water. No exceptions.
   G.   The cost of any repairs of a faulty curb box valve are the sole
responsibility of the customer or property owner and shall be assessed on the
utility bill.
   H.   Absolutely no extensions or changes to these rules and regulations may
be granted except by a majority vote of the Three Forks city council at a duly
called council meeting. (Ord. 275-2003, 8-11-2003; amd. Ord. 393-2022, 5-24-
2022)
9-2-13: CONSENT TO ANNEXATION FOR CONTINUED SERVICE:
The city may, at any time, require a property owner's consent to annexation as
a condition of continued sewer and/or water service. When the city determines
to require such consent from a particular property owner, the city may notify
the property owner, in writing, that the city seeks such consent, and that if
such consent is not given, the city will require that the property owner
discontinue receiving sewer and water service. The property owner may notify
the city in writing of his or her consent to annexation. If within ten (10)
days of the property owner's receipt of such notice, the property owner
contacts the city and makes firm arrangements, in writing, to discontinue sewer
and water service, then the city shall not further pursue obtaining the
property owner's consent. If, however, the property owner has not, within ten
(10) days, made firm written arrangements to discontinue sewer and water
service, then the city shall be entitled to treat the property owner as having
consented to annexation of his or her property upon the expiration of such ten
(10) day period. The failure by the property owner to respond in writing within
ten (10) days shall entitle the city to treat the property owner as having
consented upon the expiration of such ten (10) day period.
If the property owner consents to annexation under any of the methods described
above, the property owner may not thereafter withdraw his or her consent to any
proposed annexation of his or her property. If the property owner consents to
annexation under any of the methods described above, then the city shall be
entitled to disregard any protest that such property owner makes to a proposed
annexation of his or her property. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from
seeking consent even if the city has previously obtained a waiver of protest
from such property owner or from his or her predecessor in interest. (Ord. 292-
05-06, 3-28-2006)
CHAPTER 3
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Short Title
9-3-2: Intent
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Regulated Substances
9-3-5: Prohibited Activities
9-3-6: Restrictions Within Wellhead Protection Areas
9-3-7: Required Permits
9-3-8: Exhibit A, Regulated Substances List
9-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter will be known as the THREE FORKS WELLHEAD PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
The provisions of this Chapter will be effective within the City and the Mayor
is hereby vested with the power to enforce the terms of this Chapter. This
Chapter will establish prohibitions and restrictions to prevent public water
supply contamination by hazardous or toxic substances. This Chapter shall be
liberally construed to effect its purpose. (Ord. 225, 1993)
9-3-2: INTENT:
In order to protect existing and future water supply wells serving the City,
the City Council declares that the storage, handling, use, production, or
disposal of hazardous or toxic substances in the zone of contribution to public
water supply wells is potentially harmful to the drinking water of the City and
that certain activities are prohibited and regulated within certain defined
wellhead protection areas. (Ord. 225, 1993)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply within this Chapter:
   ADMINISTERING AGENCY: City building office as supervised by the Mayor.
   AQUIFER: A ground water bearing geologic formation or formations that
contain enough saturated, permeable material to yield significant quantities of
water.
   CONTAMINATION: The presence of any harmful or deleterious substances in the
drinking supply.
   DRINKING WATER: Water that is satisfactory for drinking, for culinary and
domestic purposes, and that meets current State and Federal drinking water
standards.
   GROUND WATER: Water that fills all the unblocked pores of underlying
material below the water table which is the upper limit of saturation, or water
which is held in the unsaturated zone by capillarity.
   HANDLE: To use, generate, process, produce, package, treat, store, emit,
discharge, or dispose of a regulated substance.
   REGULATED SUBSTANCE: A hazardous or toxic substance regulated under Section
9-3-4 of this Chapter.
   THREE FORKS AQUIFER: The aquifer underlying the City of Three Forks which
supplies the area with water.
   WELLHEAD: The physical structure, facility, or device at the land surface
from or through which ground water flows or is pumped from subsurface, water-
bearing formations.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA: The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water well or
well field which is determined to have a one hundred foot (100') radius from
the well.
   ZONE OF CONTRIBUTION: The area surrounding a pumping well that encompasses
all areas or features that supply ground water recharge to the well. (Ord. 225,
1993)
9-3-4: REGULATED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Hazardous And Toxic Substances: The substances to be regulated include
certain known hazardous or toxic substances which may cause contamination of
the Three Forks aquifer.
   B.   List Of Substances; Periodic Review: The substances to be regulated are
those set forth on, or referred to in, the list entitled "Exhibit A, Regulated
Substances", Section
9-3-8 of this Chapter. The list will be reviewed and revised as necessary by
formal amendment of this Chapter. A mixture shall be deemed a regulated
substance if it contains more than one percent (1%) by volume of any regulated
substance.
   C.   Exceptions: This Chapter shall not apply to regulated substances that:
      1.   Are handled in a quantity less than or equal to the household
quantity listed for that substance in Exhibit A, Section
9-3-8 of this Chapter;
      2.   Are contained in consumer products packaged for distribution to, and
use by, the general public for personal or household purposes;
      3.   Are contained in commercial office supplies used by a business not
engaged in commercial printing or reproduction;
      4.   Are contained in a vehicle fuel tank. (Ord. 225, 1993)
9-3-5: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The following activities are prohibited within wellhead protection areas:
   A.   The drilling of private water wells, for any purpose;
   B.   The drilling of injection wells;
   C.   The establishment or creation of dumps or landfills. (Ord. 225, 1993)
9-3-6: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person who engages in an activity involving the
handling of regulated substances within a wellhead protection area after the
date of adoption of this Chapter may do so only after obtaining a ground water
noncompliance permit. Such continuing activity shall be referred to as "legal
noncomplying activity". No person shall engage in any new activity involving
the handling of regulated substances within a wellhead protection area without
a permit.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: Legal noncomplying activities may be continued
and maintained as long as the person engaged in such activity maintains a
ground water noncompliance permit, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   No legal noncomplying activity may be enlarged or increased or
expanded or altered so as to substantially increase the risk of contamination
from such activity in the judgment of the administering agency;
      2.   Any legal noncomplying activity that is discontinued or abandoned or
ceases for a period of six (6) months shall not be considered a legal
noncomplying activity, and thereafter may not be resumed; (Ord. 225, 1993)
      3.   In the event a facility which houses a legal noncomplying activity
is destroyed or damaged by any means to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or
more (as determined by a State building inspector), the activity involving the
handling of regulated substances shall not thereafter be considered a legal
noncomplying activity and may not thereafter be resumed or continued. (Ord.
225, 1993; amd. 2000 Code)
9-3-7: REQUIRED PERMITS:
   A.   Ground Water Noncompliance Permit:
      1.   Obtaining Permit: All persons required to obtain a ground water
noncompliance permit within a wellhead protection area shall obtain that permit
within one month after the adoption of this Chapter.
      2.   Duration Of Permits: Ground water noncompliance permits must be
renewed every three (3) years. Permits shall expire on December 31 of the third
year.
      3.   Permit Application: All applications for ground water noncompliance
permits must be filed with the administering agency prior to the deadline for
obtaining an initial permit or expiration of an existing permit. All
applications shall contain a completed ground water noncompliance permit
application form, which shall be available from the administering agency.
      4.   Fees: The application fee for a ground water noncompliance permit
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). This fee must be received by the administering
agency at the time of the application.
      5.   Permit Issuance: The administering agency shall issue a ground water
noncompliance permit upon finding that:
         a.   The permit application is complete; and
         b.   All applicable fees have been paid.
   B.   Permit Specifications: The ground water noncompliance permit shall
authorize the applicant to handle regulated substances identified in the
application in quantities not to exceed those specified therein. The acceptance
of a ground water noncompliance permit shall authorize an agent of the City to
enter and inspect the facility subject to the permit. (Ord. 225, 1993)
9-3-8: EXHIBIT A, REGULATED SUBSTANCES LIST:
!!!
   EXHIBIT A
   REGULATED SUBSTANCES
Substance                      Household Quantity
Petroleum products:
Gasoline                       20 gallons
Diesel                         20 gallons
Oil                            20 gallons
Other                          20 gallons
Halogenated solvents, but not
limited to those containing:
Tetrachloroethylene            10 gallons
Trichloroethylene              10 gallons
Methylene chloride             10 gallons
1,1,1 Trichloroethane          10 gallons
Hazardous chemicals as defined 10 gallons (liquid)
by section 50-78-102, MCA      50 pounds (solid)
 
(Ord. 225, 1993)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Basic Sewer Rates
9-4-2: Connection With City Wastewater (Sewer) System Required
9-4-3: Residential And Travel-Trailer Park Sewer Rates
9-4-4: Sewer Hookup Fees
9-4-5: Collection Of Rates
9-4-6: Exception To Nonindustrial User Rates
9-4-7: User Charge System Review And Revision
9-4-8: Wastewater Treatment Services; Notice Of Rate
9-4-9: Service To Imerys (A Corporation, Or Its Successors)
9-4-10: Enforcement; Duties Of Law Enforcement
9-4-11: Penalties
9-4-1: BASIC SEWER RATES:
Sewer Rates: All owners of buildings connected to the public sewer system are
liable for sewage rates. In Residential Zoning Districts, and in all mobile
home parks, multi-family structures shall be subject to the minimum sewer
charge for each dwelling unit. The rate shall be fixed and established by
resolution of the city council. From initial sign up until an average rate is
reached, customers will be set up on a household size basis as defined below.
The average sewer rate is based upon the water usage for the months of
December, January, February and March of the preceding year. The rates are
computed each fiscal year and the new rate to be in effect July of each year.
If water was not used during the month(s) of December, January, February or
March, the sewer rate computation would be made on the basis of any four (4)
months of use in the year. A utility customer may petition the city council to
amend the determination of the household size/average sewer rate and present
evidence in support of the customer's petition. It shall be the duty of each
customer to notify the city when circumstances have arisen which result in a
change in the designated household size/average sewer rate.
   A.   Customers Receiving Water And Sewer Utility Service:
      1.   First Four Hundred Cubic Feet: The base rate for the first four
hundred (400) cubic feet of water flow and usage shall be fixed and established
by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Over Four Hundred Cubic Feet: All water flow and usage that exceeds
four hundred (400) cubic feet shall be fixed and established by resolution of
the city council.
      3.   Household Size Defined: "Household size" is defined as the number of
human beings six (6) years or older living in and utilizing the sewage
connections, including sinks and toilets, within a unit. Every two (2) human
beings under the age of six (6) will constitute one person in determining
household size. Household size shall be used to establish rates for commercial
and nonresidential rates.
   B.   Customers Receiving Sewer Utility Service Only:
      1.   Fixed Rate: Monthly sewer rate for customers not receiving water
utility services shall be fixed and established by resolution of the city
council.
      2.   Household Size Defined: "Household size" is defined as the number of
human beings six (6) years or older living in and utilizing the sewage
connections, including sinks and toilets, within a unit. Every two (2) human
beings under the age of six (6) will constitute one person in determining
household size. Household size shall be used to establish rates for commercial
and nonresidential rates.
      3.   Determination And Notification Of Household Size: The city clerk
shall notify each present sewer utility customer of the prescribed sewer charge
and the number of the household size as determined by the clerk. The clerk's
determination shall be binding upon the utility customer and shall be the basis
for the future utility assessment unless and until a sewer customer receives a
new determination from the city council.
   C.    Travel-trailer parks will be charged the minimum sewer connection
charge, as determined by resolution adopted by the City Council,    per sewer
connection ordinances in place. If the travel-trailer park is seasonal, which
means connected to the system and shut off for use during a portion of the
year, the owner is obligated to pay for no less than one inactive service
connection for the travel-trailer park.(Ord. 356-15, 2-24-2015; amd. Ord. 385-
2019, 10-8-2019; Ord. 389-2021, 8-10-2021)
9-4-2: CONNECTION WITH CITY WASTEWATER (SEWER) SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.    Every building which produces gray water, sewage or discharge of any
type is required, in a manner authorized by the laws of the State of Montana,
laws, rules and regulations of Gallatin County and the City of Three Forks, to
be connected to the City of Three Forks’ public sewer system.
   B.    Septic Tanks: In no instances shall septic tanks, cesspools, privies,
privy vaults, or other facilities be used for the disposal of sewage, except
where approved in writing by the City Engineer, Water/Wastewater Operator, and
County Sanitarian, and a public sewer is not available. (Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-
2019)
9-4-3: RESIDENTIAL AND TRAVEL-TRAILER PARK SEWER RATES
See section
9-4-1 of this chapter.
(Ord. 335-13, 4-9-2013; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-4: SEWER HOOKUP FEES:
   A.    Fee Imposed: The fee for sewer hookups shall be the actual cost of all
materials, valves and parts and labor necessary to properly complete
installation of service.
   B.    Request For Hookup: Any request for sewer hookup shall be made to the
city clerk, in writing, at least twenty four (24) hours prior to commencement
of installation. Utility hookup will not occur during weekends, evenings,
holidays, or other times when city personnel are not available for inspection.
   C.    Authorized Installers: Only those contractors, persons, firms and
corporations who are bonded by a surety authorized to conduct business within
the state are authorized to install the utility service. (Ord. 228, 7-26-1994;
amd. 318-09-10, 11-24-2009; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-5: COLLECTION OF RATES:
Each user of the sewage utility will be deemed to have contracted and agreed to
pay the sewage charges hereby imposed, and such charges may be collected by
action at law whenever the same are more than thirty (30) days overdue and
shall bear interest, at the highest rate allowed by law for contract
indebtedness, from and after the twentieth day of the month when the charge
becomes due and payable. (Ord. 192, 8-13-1980; amd. Ord. 231, 1995; amd. Ord.
385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-6: EXCEPTION TO NONINDUSTRIAL USER RATES:
Nonindustrial users with above normal domestic waste strength shall be liable
for an industrial sewer rate based on the formula described in section
9-5-6 of this title. (Ord. 192, 8-13-1980; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-7: USER CHARGE SYSTEM REVIEW AND REVISION:
The city shall review the user charge system not less than every two (2) years
and shall revise the system as necessary to assure equality of the system and
to assure that sufficient funds will be collected to adequately operate and
maintain the system. (Ord. 192, 8-13-1980; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-8: WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICES; NOTICE OF RATE:
The user will be notified at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user's charges which are attributed
to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 192, 8-13-1980; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-
8-2019)
9-4-9: SERVICE TO IMERYS (A CORPORATION, OR ITS SUCCESSORS):
The city will provide water and sewer services to Imerys, as per agreement
dated March 27, 2001, for a period of twenty (20) years without requiring
annexation into the city. In pertinent part, the agreement provides that Imerys
will pay the city for water and sewer services, on a monthly basis, based on
the amount of flow through the sewer line, and on the applicable rates
described in the city's water and sewer ordinances. The city shall review rates
for water and sewer service provided outside of the city limits and
specifically under the agreement and set the rate by separate resolution. (Ord.
360-15, 7-28-2015; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-10: ENFORCEMENT; DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    It shall be the duty of law enforcement officers to give vigilant aid
to the water/wastewater operator in the enforcement of all rules and
regulations and to this end they shall report all violations thereof which may
come to their attention.
   B.    The law enforcement officers shall work with the City Attorney at the
direction of the Mayor on enforcement issues. (Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-4-11: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person, firm, corporation, architect, plumber or
contractor, or other person who shall be found guilty of violating any of the
rules and regulations of this chapter, or who shall fail or neglect to comply
with the provisions contained therein, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, however, that when the offense is one which
relates to rentals, leakage or illegal use of wastewater, the water/wastewater
operator may cause the water supply to be shut off and the offender shall
forfeit all payments that may have been made for same. When the water has been
turned off for violation of this chapter, it shall not be turned on again until
connections are repaired and approved by the water/wastewater operator, city
engineer, county sanitarian and all amounts due have been paid, including the
fee to turn on/off as per
9-2-11 of this title. (Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions And Abbreviations
9-5-2: Use Of Public Sewer Required; Exception
9-5-3: Applications And Requirements For Service
9-5-4: Installation Charges
9-5-5: Domestic Sewer Rates
9-5-6: Travel-Trailer Park Rates
9-6-6A: Industrial Sewer Rates
9-5-7: Submission And Approval Of Industrial Cost
9-5-8: Use Of Funds; Repayment Of Grant Monies
9-5-9: Connection Specifications And Restrictions
9-5-10: Pipes
9-5-11: Joints
9-5-12: Construction Of Sewers
9-5-13: Prohibited Discharges
9-5-14: Sewage Quantities
9-5-15: Control Manholes
9-5-16: Sewage Testing And Analysis
9-5-17: Remedies And Penalties For Violations
9-5-18: Pretreatment
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
   A.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter,
shall have the designated meanings:
BOD    - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMPs   - Best Management Practices
CFR    - Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    - Categorical Industrial User
COD    - Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA    - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    - gallons per day
IU     - Industrial User
mg/l   - milligrams per liter
MPDES  - Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SIU    - Significant Industrial User
TSS    - Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
 
   B.   Definitions:
ACT OR "THE    The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
ACT":          amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
               An "authorized or duly authorized representative" of an IU may be:
               A.   If the IU is a corporation:
                  1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation
               in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
               policy or decision-making functions for the corporations; or
                  2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
               facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions which
               govern the operation of the regulated facility including having explicit or implicit
               duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct
               other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with
               environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
AUTHORIZED     established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for control
REPRESENTATIVE mechanism requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
OF THE IU:     delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
               B.   If the IU is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
               proprietor, respectively.
               C.   If the IU is a federal, state, or local government facility: a director or
               highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
               the activities of the governmental facility, or their designee.
               D.   The individuals described in subparagraphs A through C of this paragraph, may
               designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the
               authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
               operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
               responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
               authorization is submitted to the city.
               Schedules of activities, prohibition of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
BEST           management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR Part 403.5(a)(1)
MANAGEMENT     and (b) and subsection D of Ordinance
PRACTICES OR   9-5-18. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
BMPS:          practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal
               or drainage from raw materials storage or sector control programs to control
               pollutants from certain non-domestic sectors.
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
OXYGEN DEMAND  standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty degrees (20 ) centigrade,
OR BOD:        usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
BUILDING       That part of the horizontal piping of the drainage system which extends from four
SEWERS:        feet (4') outside the building and which receives the discharge from the building
               sanitary sewage drainage and conveys it to the public sewer.
CATEGORICAL    Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
PRETREATMENT   accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that
STANDARD OR    apply to a specific category of IUs and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
CATEGORICAL    N, Parts 405-471.
STANDARD:
CATEGORICAL
INDUSTRIAL     Any IUs subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard or categorical standard.
USER OR CIU:
CHEMICAL       A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and
OXYGEN DEMAND  inorganic, in water.
OR COD:
               The term refers to the:
CONTROL        A.   The POTW if the POTW's Pretreatment program has been submitted and approved in
AUTHORITY:     accordance with the requirements of section 403.11; or
               B.   The EPA if the POTW's Pretreatment program has not been approved.
ENVIRONMENTAL  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION     Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized
AGENCY OR EPA: official of said agency.
INDIRECT       The introduction of any pollutant into the POTW from any non-domestic source
DISCHARGE OR   regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
DISCHARGE:
INDUSTRIAL     A source of indirect discharge.
USER OR IU:
               A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
               sources, both:
               A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its
               sludge processes, use or disposal; and
               B.   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of the City of Three Forks MPDES permit
               (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
INTERFERENCE:  prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
               statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent
               State or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
               including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery
               Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
               prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act;
               the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and
               Sanctuaries Act.
               Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the POTW upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:   commercial facilities (IUs) to implement the general and specific discharge
               prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and subsection D of Ordinance
               9-5-18.
               Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological
MEDICAL WASTE: wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
               contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
NONCONTACT     Water used for cooling that does not come into direct contact with any raw material,
COOLING WATER: intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
               A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
               concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
PASS THROUGH:  other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the City of Three
               Forks MPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
               violation.
               Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation,
PERSON:        association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other
               legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition
               includes all Federal, State, and local governmental entities.
pH:            A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
               Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage,
               sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
POLLUTANT:     radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
               dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of
               wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, flow, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity,
               or odor).
               The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
               alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu
PRETREATMENT:  of, a discharge of such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can
               be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or
               by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants, unless
               allowed by an applicable Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT   Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on an IU,
REQUIREMENTS:  other than a Pretreatment Standard.
PRETREATMENT   Pretreatment Standards shall mean Prohibited Discharge Standards, Categorical
STANDARDS OR   Pretreatment Standards, and Local Limits, including BMPs.
STANDARDS:
PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE      Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain pollutants; these
STANDARDS OR   prohibitions appear in subsection D of Ordinance
PROHIBITED     9-5-18.
DISCHARGES:
               The sewers constructed in streets, alleys, roadways, and easements, and are the
PUBLIC SEWERS: sewers to which the building sewers connect. All public sewers are under the control
               of the City of Three Forks.
               A treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C section 1292),
               which is owned by a State or municipality (as defined by section 502(4) of the Act).
PUBLICLY OWNED This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
TREATMENT      recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
WORKS OR POTW: nature. It also includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey
               wastewater to a POTW Treatment Plant. The term also means the municipality as
               defined in section 502(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the Indirect
               Discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
POTW TREATMENT That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment (including recycling
PLANT:         and reclamation) of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
               Pipes which carry sewage from building sewers, but exclude storm, surface or ground
SANITARY       water runoff. The City Engineer, Water/Wastewater Operator and other duly authorized
SEWERS:        personnel shall be permitted to enter upon all properties having connection to the
               public sewers for the purpose of inspecting, observation, measurement, sampling, or
               testing, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
SEPTIC TANK    Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
WASTE:         and septic tanks.
SEWAGE:        Human excrement and gray water (as from showers, dishwashing operations, sinks,
               bathes, or washing machines).
               All IUs subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR
               chapter I, subchapter N; and
               A.   Any other IU that:
                  1.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day or
SIGNIFICANT    more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, Noncontact Cooling Water
INDUSTRIAL     and boiler blowdown wastewater);
USER OR SIU:      2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
               of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW Treatment
               Plant; or
                  3.   Is designated as such by the Control Authority on the basis that the IU has
               a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating
               any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement (in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
               Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could cause a violation of the
SLUG LOAD OR   prohibited discharge standards in subsection D of Ordinance
SLUG           9-5-18. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
DISCHARGE:     including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge,
               which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any
               other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or pretreatment requirements.
STORM WATER:   Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and
               resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
TOTAL
SUSPENDED      The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
SOLIDS,        wastewater, or other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
SUSPENDED
SOLIDS OR TSS:
               Liquid and water-carried pollutants from residential dwellings, commercial
WASTEWATER:    buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether
               treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd.
               2000 Code; Ord. 395-2022, 6-14-2022)
 
9-5-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Connection With Public Sewer: Every building having plumbing fixtures
installed or intended for human habitation and occupancy or use on premises
abutting streets, alleys, roadways, or easements in which there are public
sewers or within City limits of a public sewer, shall have a connection with
the public sewer.
   B.   Septic Tanks; Privies: In no instances shall septic tanks, cesspools,
privies, privy vaults, or other facilities be used for the disposal of sewage,
except where approved by the City Engineer, Water/Wastewater Operator, and
County Sanitarian, and a public sewer is not available. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980;
amd. 2000 Code)
9-5-3: APPLICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: All applications for service must be made to
the City Clerk and must be signed by the owner of the property or his
authorized agent. The application will detail the type of dwelling served,
commercial, industrial, or domestic, the length, grade and size of sewer, and
the block and lot location in the city. There shall be sufficient information
such that the city engineer or water/wastewater operator can effectively
determine the feasibility of the proposed sewer.
   B.   Consent Of Property Owners: If the building sewer is to be connected to
a sewer built by private parties, or is to pass through property not owned by
the applicant, the written consent of the owner shall be procured and filed
with the application. The engineer or water/wastewater operator approval shall
be required before construction begins. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. 2000 Code)
9-5-4: INSTALLATION CHARGES:
A minimum fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be charged for the
installation and inspection of each service connection and for the filing in
the office of the water/wastewater operator such data and drawings that are
necessary to complete the records. Special conditions may be established by the
city in the case of multiple hookups. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. Ord. 249-98, 2-
10-1998; 2000 Code)
9-5-5: DOMESTIC SEWER RATES:
See section
9-4-1 of this title. (2000 Code)
9-5-6: TRAVEL-TRAILER PARK RATES:
See Section
9-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. Ord. 385-2019, 10-8-2019)
9-5-6A: INDUSTRIAL SEWER RATES:
Each industrial sewer user connected with the sewer by a building sewer to the
public sewer shall be liable to industrial sewage rates. The industrial sewer
rate shall be contingent on the volume of sewage discharged, the BOD
concentration, and the suspended solids concentration in relation to the
standard domestic concentrations. The assumptions for standard domestic BOD
loading will be two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l), two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) for suspended solids, and a residential home
per day discharging rate of three hundred fifty (350) gallons.
   A.   I.R.= 0.75 (monthly water cost) + Vu. x 62.4 (.0578 (BOD-200) k1 +
0.0721 (S.S. - 250) k1 ).
   B.   0.0578 is the dollar per pound charge for BOD.
   C.   0.0721 is the dollar per pound charge for 5.5.
   D.   k1 converts milligrams to pounds = 2.2026 x 10-6.
   E.   Vu. = monthly volume (H20) of user in cubic feet.
   F.   BOD is 5-day 20°C biological oxygen demand in milligrams per liter.
   G.   S.S. is suspended solids in milligrams per liter.
(Ord. 196, 9-9-1980)
9-5-7: SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF INDUSTRIAL COST:
Industrial users will be required to abide by the Pretreatment Ordinance (
9-5-18). Industrial users will be determined based on the information that may
be requested below in subsection C. Each new industrial sewer user that desires
to be connected to the public sewer shall furnish an estimate of the BOD and
suspended solid concentrations expected. Their water meter will establish
discharge volume. Any special system where water use is not discharged to sewer
will be taken into special review by the city engineer and rate established.
After a month of full operation, and at one-year intervals thereafter, tests
will be taken according to section
9-5-16 of this chapter.
   A.   Surcharge Rate: The city, or its city engineer, will determine the
average total suspended solids (TSS) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily
loadings for the average nonindustrial user. The city, or its engineer, will
assess a surcharge rate for all industrial users discharging wastes with BOD
and TSS strengths greater than the average nonindustrial user. Such users will
be assessed a surcharge sufficient to cover the costs of treating such users'
above normal strength wastes. The City will review the user charge system as
necessary to assure equity of the system and to assure that sufficient funds
will be collected from the system to adequately operate and maintain the
wastewater treatment works.
   B.   Special Agreement And/Or Agreements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
   C.   The City may require a user of sewer services to provide information
needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These requirements may
include:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewater.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. Ord. 395-2022,
6-14-2022)
9-5-8: USE OF FUNDS; REPAYMENT OF GRANT MONIES:
   A.   Separate Fund: The funds received from the collection of sewer user
charges shall be kept as a separate and distinct fund by the city clerk,
subject only to disbursement by order of the city council. This fund shall be
used for: 1) the payment of the cost of management, 2) maintenance, 3)
operation and 4) repair of the sewage system, including treatment and disposal
works, 5) for the creation of a sinking fund for the retirement of any
indebtedness, 6) for the payment of interest on any such indebtedness; and any
surplus in such fund may be used for the enlargement or replacement of the same
and for the payment of the interest on any debt incurred for the construction
of such sewage system, including sewage pumping, treatment and disposal works,
and for retiring such debt, but shall not be used for the extension of a sewage
system to serve unsewered areas or for any purpose other than one or more of
those above specified.
   B.   Repayment Of Grant Monies: At the present time there is no industry
served by the wastewater treatment works construction completed under EPA
project C 300200-03. However, it will be required of any industry served by
this construction in the future, during the applicable industrial cost recovery
period, to pay back its fair share of the appropriate grant monies, for the
referenced project, in accordance with title 40 CFR 35, subpart E. (Ord. 196,
9-9-1980)
9-5-9: CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Specifications: Connections to the public sewer shall be made with an
inserta tee. In all cases, the installation of the inserta tee shall be
according to the manufacturers specifications and a watertight joint must be
provided. The installation shall be inspected by City personnel. In areas where
special improvement districts have been constructed and inline wyes or inserta
tees are already in place, City personnel will be contacted as to its location
and the connection for the sewer service will be made.
   B.   Restrictions: All building sewers shall run from four feet (4') outside
the building to the public sewer, and shall have a minimum of four feet (4')
cover. All joints shall be water-tight, and inspected by the City Engineer,
Water/Wastewater Operator, or an authorized agent, prior to backfilling of
trenches. The contractor shall supply the City a certificate to be endorsed by
the Engineer or authorized agent specifying and attesting to the material used,
the watertight nature of the sewer, and connection to the existing sewer as
provided in this Chapter. In no case will the contractor be allowed to connect
a building sewer to the outlet of a septic tank or cesspool and discharge the
water into the public system.
   C.   Minimum Grades: Refer to the Public Design Standards. (Ord. 196, 9-9-
1980; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 395-2022, 6-14-2022)
9-5-10: PIPES:
Refer to the Public Design Standards. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. 2000 Code; Ord.
395-2022, 6-14-2022)
9-5-11: JOINTS:
Refer to the Public Design Standards. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. 2000 Code; Ord.
395-2022, 6-14-2022)
9-5-12: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS:
   A.   Owner Responsible For Expense: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   B.   Compliance With State And Federal Regulations: All construction work
will be done in accordance with all State and Federal occupational safety and
health legislation.
   C.   Conforming To Standards: Refer to the Public Design Standards.
   D.   Streets, Roadways, Sidewalks: The contractor shall give sufficient (a
recommended minimum of forty-eight (48) hours) for sufficient inspection and
testing during the backfilling operation. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. 2000 Code;
Ord. 395-2022, 6-14-2022)
9-5-13: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Storm Water; Contaminated Water; Industrial Process Waters: No person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters into the City's sanitary sewers. Any
industrial or domestic development with anticipated sewer loadings containing
high suspended solids, BOD, nutrients, or heavy metal contents must have their
sewer application permit reviewed by the City Engineer.
   B.   Certain Waters And Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or waste to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
sewers, structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to: ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wool,
whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes,
cups, carton containers, wet wipes (even those labeled "flushable"), etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Prohibited Discharges as listed in Ordinance
9-5-18, Subsection D.
   C.   Interceptors And Preliminary Treatment Devices; Approval: Grease, oil,
sand interceptors, flow-equalizers, and other preliminary treatment devices
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they are necessary
for the proper handling of wastes containing floatable grease, oil, sand, or
other harmful ingredients in excessive amounts. All interceptors or preliminary
treatment devices shall be of an approved type and capacity, readily accessible
for cleaning and inspection and approved by the City Engineer before
construction.
   D.   Maintenance Of Devices: Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizers
are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense. The Owner(s)
shall be responsible for maintaining records of the dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the City. Any removal and hauling of the
collected materials not performed by Owner(s) personnel must be performed by
currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   E.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   F.   Misdemeanor: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection F of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount as
specified in section
1-4-1 of this code per each day of violation.
   G.   Liability For Expense, Loss Or Damage: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 196, 9-9-
1980; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 395-2022, 6-14-2022)
9-5-14: SEWAGE QUANTITIES:
Where the expected sewage flow from a facility exceeds thirty two (32) gallons
per minute for a five (5) hour period, or ten thousand (10,000) gallons per
day, approval from the City Engineer will be required. Approval will be based
upon the types of flow-equalizing equipment and preliminary treatment
facilities provided for the heavy loadings of BOD, suspended solids, nutrients,
and heavy metals present in the sewage. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980)
9-5-15: CONTROL MANHOLES:
Where required by the City Engineer, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer shall install a suitable manhole for the purpose of sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at
all times. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980)
9-5-16: SEWAGE TESTING AND ANALYSIS:
   A.   Waters And Wastes: All measurements, tests, and analyses to the
characteristics of water and wastes as required by this Chapter, the City
Engineer shall be done in accordance with "Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Sewage". All such samples shall be taken at either the control
manhole or the nearest manhole downstream from the point the building sewer
enters the sanitary sewer. Testing will include a five (5) day BOD, suspended
solids, a flow measurement, and fecal coliform. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980; amd. 2000
Code)
   B.   Grease, Oil, Heavy Metals: If necessary, and at the discretion of the
City Engineer, testing for grease, oil, and heavy metals may be required. (Ord.
196, 9-9-1980)
9-5-17: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Liability For Expense, Loss Or Damage: Any person who shall violate any
of the provisions of this Chapter or fail to comply with the foregoing
requirements shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damages
occasioned to the City by reason of such violation or failure of compliance.
   B.   Discontinue Water Service For Nonpayment Of Charges: In the event of
nonpayment of charges for either water or sewer service and benefits to any
premises, the City Council may direct the supply of water to such premises to
be discontinued until such charges are paid. (Ord. 196, 9-9-1980)
9-5-18: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This section sets forth uniform requirements for
Industrial Users ("IUs") of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works ("POTW") for the
City of Three Forks related to pretreatment. It is intended to enable the POTW
to comply with its Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("MPDES")
permit from the Montana Department of Environmental Quality as well as all
applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.
section 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part
403). The objectives of this section are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
      3.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      4.   To promote and protect the reuse and recycling of wastewater and
sludge from the POTW; and
      5.   To enable the POTW to comply with its MPDES permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other Federal or State laws to
which the POTW is subject.
This section shall apply to all IUs of the POTW.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this section. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the POTW may be delegated to a duly
authorized municipal employee.
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this section,
shall have the designated meanings: See Ordinance
9-5-1.
   D.   Prohibited Discharge Standards:
      1.   General Prohibitions: No IU shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant which causes pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in
subsection D2 of this subsection apply to all IUs of the POTW whether or not
they are subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other National,
State, or local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No IU shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60 degrees C) using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, or otherwise causing
corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. Solid or viscous
pollutants shall not be discharged whole or ground by garbage grinders. This
includes, but is not limited to ashes, cinders, sand, oil and grease from food
service establishments, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, underground garbage, paunch manure, hair and flesh,
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.;
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
         e.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW Treatment Plant exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the
Approval Authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits;
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW in accordance with subsection Y of this section;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
POTW Treatment Plant, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the POTW Treatment
Plant's effluent, thereby violating the City of Three Forks MPDES permit;
         k.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations;
         l.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate,
deionized water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the City of Three Forks;
         m.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         n.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the POTW Treatment Plant's effluent to fail toxicity tests;
         o.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other pollutants that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW or receiving waters;
         p.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations which could cause a problem to the collection system or the POTW
(e.g., restricted flow in pipes, sewage backups, lift station operation issues,
decreased treatment, etc.);
         q.   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW;
         r.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishment or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers. However, garbage
grinders shall only be used to grind small amounts of garbage incidental to
cleaning of plates, cookware, etc. and not to dispose of large quantities of
waste. Waste must be scraped into a garbage can prior to cleaning;
         s.   Unusual Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand
(COD), or Total Suspended Solids (TSS) in quantities as to constitute a
significant additional load on the POTW;
         t.   Wastewater containing pollutants which are not amenable to
transport, treatment or reduction in concentration by the POTW and POTW
treatment plant processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such a
degree that the POTW treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over discharge of effluent to the
receiving waters;
         u.   Wastewater which, by interaction with other wastewater in the
POTW, releases obnoxious gases, forms suspended solids which interfere with the
collection system, or creates a condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes;
         v.   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter
at the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW of more
than five percent (5%) or any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the
lower explosive limit of the meter.
         w.   Liquid wastes from chemical toilets, trailers, campers or other
recreational vehicles which have been collected or held in tanks or other
containers shall not be discharged into the POTW except at locations authorized
by the City of Three Forks to collect such wastes;
         x.   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this
subsection shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the POTW.
   E.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: Categorical Industrial
Users (CIUs) must comply with applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards
found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471. In order to facilitate
notification from the POTW to the Control Authority regarding discharges from
CIUs, CIUs shall notify the City of Three Forks at least ninety (90) days prior
to discharge. CIUs also have additional sampling, reporting, and notification
requirements to the Control Authority.
   F.   Site-Specific Limits: The POTW may establish Local Limits, additional
site-specific pollutant limits, Best Management Practices, or additional
Pretreatment Requirements when, in the judgment of the City of Three Forks,
such limitations are necessary to implement the provisions of this section,
including the discharge prohibitions in subsection D. These additional limits
shall be public noticed prior to implementation by the City of Three Forks.
   G.   Best Management Practices (BMPs): The POTW may develop BMPs to
implement the prohibitions of subsection D of this section. BMPs shall be
considered Pretreatment Standards and Local Limits for purposes of this Chapter
and section 307(d) of the Act.
The POTW may establish specific sector control programs for Industrial Users to
control specific pollutants, as necessary, to meet the objectives of this
Chapter. Pollutants subject to these sector control programs will generally be
controlled using BMPs or by permits, as determined by the POTW. These sector
control programs shall not limit the POTW's authority to inspect, sample,
require reports, enforce or otherwise carry out its responsibility under this
Chapter.
The specific sector control program BMPs and requirements shall be developed
and documented in a policy, which shall be public noticed. Elements of a BMP-
based sector control program may include, but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Installation of appropriately-sized treatment;
      2.   Requirements for prohibitions on certain practices or discharges;
      3.   Requirements for the operation and maintenance of treatment
equipment; and
      4.   Procedures for compliance certification, reporting and records
retention.
   H.   Confidential Business Information: All records, reports, data or other
information supplied by any person or Industrial User as a result of any
disclosure required by this Chapter or information and data from inspections
shall be available for public inspection except as otherwise provided in this
Section, 40 CFR Section 403.14 and the State of Montana. These provisions shall
not be applicable to any information designated as a trade secret by the person
supplying such information. Materials designated as a trade secret may include,
but shall not be limited to: processes, operations, style of work or apparatus
or confidential commercial or statistical data. Any information and data
submitted by the Industrial User which is desired to be considered a trade
secret shall have the words, "Confidential Business Information," stamped on
each page containing such information. The Industrial User must demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the Industrial User.
Information designated as a trade secret pursuant to this subsection shall
remain confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection. Such
information shall be available only to officers, employees or authorized
representatives of the POTW charged with implementing and enforcing the
provisions of this Chapter and properly identified representatives of the EPA
and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality. Effluent data from any
Industrial User whether obtained by self-monitoring, monitoring by the POTW or
monitoring by any state or federal agency, shall not be considered a trade
secret or otherwise confidential. All such effluent data shall be available for
public inspection.
   I.   Dilution: No IU shall increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirement. The POTW may
impose mass limitations on IUs who are using dilution to meet applicable
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
   J.   Pretreatment Facilities: IUs shall provide wastewater treatment, as
necessary, to comply with this Chapter and shall achieve compliance prior to
discharge. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the IU's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the POTW for review, and shall
be acceptable to the POTW before such facilities are constructed. Acceptance by
the POTW of any such facilities shall not be construed as a guarantee or
agreement by the POTW that such facilities will achieve compliance with this
Chapter. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the IU from the responsibility of modifying such facilities, as
necessary, to produce a discharge acceptable to the POTW under the provisions
of this section.
   K.   Additional Pretreatment And Monitoring Requirements: Whenever deemed
necessary, the POTW may require an IU to restrict its discharge, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate domestic wastestreams from non-
domestic wastestreams, and impose such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the IU's compliance with the requirements of
this Chapter.
The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install and
maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-
control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install at the
owner's or operator's own expense suitable monitoring facilities or equipment
which isolates appropriate wastewater discharges into the wastewater system and
facilitates accurate observation, sampling and measurement of discharges. The
equipment shall be maintained in proper working order and kept safe and
accessible without restriction to POTW personnel at all times. Where practical,
the monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the Industrial
User's premises outside of the building.
IUs with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to
install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   L.   Industrial User Questionnaire: If the POTW deems it necessary to assure
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, any IU of the POTW may be
required to submit a Wastewater Discharge permit application, questionnaire, or
other reports and notifications in a format and timeframe specified by the
POTW. In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a BMP
or pollution prevention alternative, the Industrial User must submit
documentation required by the POTW or the Pretreatment Standards to determine
the compliance status of the Industrial User. Any Industrial User subject to
this reporting requirement shall submit a completed report no later than thirty
(30) days after receipt of the notification and appropriate forms.
   M.   Notification Of Change In Discharge: All Industrial Users shall
promptly notify the POTW in advance of any substantial change in the volume or
character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous wastes for which the Industrial User has submitted
initial notification under 40 CFR section 403.12(p). Additionally, significant
Industrial Users are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes in
their facilities affecting potential for a Slug Discharge.
   N.   Notification Of Hazardous Waste Discharge: Industrial users shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and the
State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any Discharge into the POTW of
any substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be considered a hazardous
waste under 40 CFR section 261. Each Industrial User shall notify the POTW in
advance of any substantial change to such discharge. The specific information
required to be reported and the time frames in which it is to be reported are
found at 40 CFR section 403.12(p).
   O.   Report Of Potential Problems: In the case of any discharge, including,
but not limited to, spills, accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine,
episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge, a Slug discharge or a
discharge that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the Industrial User
shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. This
notification shall include:
      1.   Name of the facility;
      2.   Location of the facility;
      3.   Name of the caller;
      4.   Date and time of the discharge;
      5.   Date and time discharge was halted;
      6.   Location of the discharge;
      7.   Type of waste;
      8.   Estimated volume of the discharge;
      9.   Estimated concentration of pollutants in the discharge;
      10.   Corrective actions taken to halt the discharge; and
      11.   Method of disposal, if applicable.
Within five (5) working days following such discharge, the Industrial User
shall, unless waived by the POTW in writing, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the Discharge and the measures to be taken by the
Industrial User to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the Industrial User of any expense, loss, damage, or other
liability which might be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the Industrial User of any fines, penalties, or other
liability which may be imposed pursuant to this Chapter.
   P.   Authorized Signature For Reports: All reports and questionnaires
required to be submitted by the above provisions shall bear the signature of an
Authorized Representative of the discharging entity and shall include the
following certification statement as set forth in 40 CFR section 403.6(a)(2)
(ii):
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system
or the persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of a fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   Q.   Recordkeeping: All records (including documentation associated with
BMPs) shall be retained by the user for a minimum period of three (3) years,
shall be made immediately available upon request of the POTW at any time during
the three (3) year period or so long as actually retained.
   R.   Slug Discharge Control: Each Industrial User shall provide protection
from accidental discharges and Slug Loads of pollutants regulated under this
Chapter. Facilities to prevent the discharge of spills or Slug Loads shall be
provided and maintained at the Industrial User's expense.
The POTW may evaluate whether each Industrial User needs a Spill Prevention and
Control Plan or other action to control spills and Slug Discharges. The POTW
may require an Industrial User to develop, submit for approval, and implement a
Slug/Spill Plan or take such other action that may be necessary to control
spills and Slug Discharges.
A Slug/Spill Plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Detailed plans (schematics) showing facility layout and plumbing
representative of operating procedures;
      2.   Description of contents and volumes of any process tanks;
      3.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      4.   Listing of stored chemicals, including location and volumes;
      5.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any spill or Slug
Discharge. It is the responsibility of the Industrial User to comply with the
reporting requirements in subsection R4;
      6.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or Slug
Discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response; and
      7.   Any other information as required by the POTW.
   S.   Compliance And Enforcement: All existing IUs must come into compliance
with the terms of this Chapter upon the effective date.
If the POTW deems it necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter, any IU of the POTW may be required to submit a Wastewater Discharge
permit application, questionnaire, or other reports and notifications in a
format and timeframe specified by the POTW. These requirements may include, but
are not limited to:
      1.   Wastewater Discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewater;
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other material important to sewer use control;
      5.   A plot plan of sewers on the IU's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
      7.   Details of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the POTW; and
      8.   Signed certification by the authorized representative of the IU.
The POTW will evaluate the data furnished by the IU and may require additional
information to determine compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. The
POTW may deny the request to discharge non-domestic wastewater to the POTW or
allow discharge under conditions determined by the POTW to protect against pass
through or interference.
The POTW may require IUs to install monitoring equipment as necessary, per
section 3 of this section. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment
shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by
the IU at its expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
The POTW shall have the right to enter the premises of any IU to determine
whether the IU is complying with all requirements of this Chapter. IUs shall
allow the POTW ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection (including the use of digital photography to gather information),
sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties. Denial of access shall constitute a violation of this
Chapter.
   T.   Notification Of Violation: When the POTW finds that an IU has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this section or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the POTW may serve upon that IU a written
Notice of Violation. Within five (5) working days of the receipt of such
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the IU to the City of Three Forks. Submission of such a plan in
no way relieves the IU of liability for any violations occurring before or
after receipt of the Notice of Violation. If the plan for correction submitted
by the IU is not satisfactory to the City of Three Forks, the POTW may take
further action, including potentially suspending service as provided for in
subsection 8.2.
Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the POTW to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a Notice of Violation.
   U.   Suspension Of Service: The POTW may suspend water service and/or
wastewater treatment service in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons, the environment, causes pass through or
interference, causes the POTW to violate any condition of its MPDES Permit, or
for violations of this Chapter. Any IU notified of a suspension of the water
service and/or wastewater treatment service shall immediately stop or eliminate
the discharge. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the POTW shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate physical severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to individuals or the
environment.
   V.   Administrative Order: When the POTW finds that an Industrial User has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this Chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the POTW may issue an order to the
Industrial User responsible for the discharge directing that the Industrial
User immediately come into compliance or within a time specified by the POTW.
If the Industrial User does not come into compliance within the time provided,
sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated.
Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
Industrial User of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation during the time it takes the Industrial User to come into compliance.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the Industrial User
   W.   Administrative Penalty: When the POTW finds that an Industrial User has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this Chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the POTW may fine such Industrial User in
an amount not to exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) per day
per violation. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per day basis.
In the case of monthly or other long-term average Discharge limits, fines shall
be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
The POTW may, in addition to fines, collect charges to pay for damage to the
POTW, fines issued to the POTW, and any other costs incurred by the POTW as a
result of the IU's noncompliance.
A lien against the Industrial User's property shall be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the Industrial User.
   X.   Judicial Enforcement Remedies: When the POTW finds that an Industrial
User has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this Chapter, and
individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the POTW may petition the Municipal Court
for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the order, or other
requirement imposed by this Chapter on activities of the Industrial User. The
POTW may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the Industrial User to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against an Industrial
User.
   Y.   Hauled Wastewater: The POTW may prohibit the discharge of trucked/
hauled septic tank waste, industrial waste, and RV waste to the POTW.
Trucked/hauled waste may be discharged into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW, and at such times established by the POTW. Such waste
shall not violate Section 2 of this Chapter or any other requirements
established by the POTW. The discharge of hauled waste is subject to all other
requirements of this section. The POTW may require the following:
      1.   Septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
      2.   The POTW may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
      3.   The POTW may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to Discharge.
   Any person discharging septic tank waste and industrial waste must provide a
waste-tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the
name and address of the waste hauler (individual person and company), permit
number (if applicable), truck identification, names and addresses of sources of
waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the
type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes
are RCRA hazardous wastes.
   Z.   RV Disposal Stations: The POTW may allow RV disposal sites in its
service area if the quality or quantity of the RV waste does not impact the
POTW, including the collection system. The POTW may/will require RV disposal
sites in the service area to ensure adequate controlled access to its disposal
site including locked access, sign-in records for persons discharging from the
RV, record keeping by the RV disposal site, and other information, as deemed
appropriate by the Public Works Director. (Ord. 395-2022, 6-14-2022)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Additional Fee For Payment By Debit Or Credit Card
9-6-1: ADDITIONAL FEE FOR PAYMENT BY DEBIT OR CREDIT CARD:
   A.   A fee shall be charged to each utility customer upon payment of utility
bill by a debit card, credit card or other form of credit transaction if the
city of Three Forks is similarly charged a fee when that payment is processed.
   B.   The amount of that fee shall be set periodically by resolution of the
city council of the city of Three Forks, Montana. At this time, the fee will be
set at three percent (3%) of the amount of the utility bill payment and shall
be paid in addition to the full amount of the utility bill. (Ord. 304-08, 8-11-
2008)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LEVELING LOTS AND FOUNDATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Abandonment
10-1-2: Penalty
10-1-1: ABANDONMENT:
In case of the abandonment, deterioration beyond usefulness, or the destruction
by burning or otherwise, or the removal, or wrecking for the purpose of
removal, or otherwise, of any building or structure or material part thereof,
within the corporate limits of the City, the same having foundations or walls
standing above the surface of the lot or ground whereon the same shall be
located, or in case a cellar or excavation under or belonging to or under the
whole part of such building or structure shall be thereby left open or exposed,
then, and in either such event, every person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, owner or agent, employer or employee who shall permit, cause or be
responsible for or take part in such action shall then and as a public
obligation and duty, clear such lot or ground and level the same so as to leave
the surface thereof in a safe and sightly condition, reasonably smooth and
level to provide against accidents to persons and property and liability to the
accumulation of water, weeds, rubbish, or inflammable materials, and shall not,
at any time, leave the same in a dangerous or unsightly condition or permit any
obstruction or excavation, dangerous, unsightly or offensive, or maintain or
permit thereon anything liable to cause accident, loss or damage to persons or
property. (1977 Code § 15.04.010)
10-1-2: PENALTY:
Any persons, associations or corporations violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply therewith shall severally, for each and every such violation
or noncompliance be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of one penalty or fine for any violation of
this Chapter shall not excuse the violation nor permit it to continue; and all
such persons so involved, shall be required to correct or remedy such violation
or defects within a reasonable time; and, when not otherwise specified, such a
time shall not exceed ten (10) days, and each ten (10) days of noncompliance
shall constitute a separate offense and as such shall be punishable as above
provided. (1977 Code § 15.04.020; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
10-2-1: Uniform System Established
10-2-2: Odd And Even Numbers
10-2-3: Base Numbering Of Houses
10-2-4: Main Street
10-2-5: Buttelman Addition
10-2-6: Enforcement
10-2-1: UNIFORM SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
In order to establish a uniform system of numbering houses within the city, all
houses fronting on streets, avenues and public highways within the city shall
be numbered in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (1977 Code §
11.58.010)
   A.   All numbers on structures in which businesses operate shall be no less
than four inches (4") high.
   B.   All structures which are occupied as residences shall have numbers no
less than three inches (3") high, be visible from the street and be reflective
in nature. (Ord. 283-04-05, 8-24-2004)
10-2-2: ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS:
Odd numbers shall be given to houses on the east and on the south side of
streets, avenues and highways; and even numbers to those on the west and on the
north sides of the same. (1977 Code § 11.58.020)
10-2-3: BASE NUMBERING OF HOUSES:
Main and Ash Streets shall be taken and used as a base of numbering houses
fronting on streets within the city. (1977 Code § 11.58.030)
10-2-4: MAIN STREET:
   A.   Easterly And Westerly Numbering: On streets, avenues and highways
running easterly and westerly in the city, numbering shall commence with number
one on Main Street and its extensions, and increase in each direction from Main
Street one hundred (100) numbers for each block, or space between two (2)
streets; and, to distinguish such numbers, the streets aforesaid shall be
designated reckoning from Main Street as East Neal Street; and West Neal
Street, East Ash Street, and West Ash Street, and the same with all other
streets running at right angles with and crossing Main Street. (1977 Code §
11.58.040)
   B.   Northerly And Southerly Numbering: On streets, avenues and highways
running northerly and southerly in the city, the numbering shall commence with
number one on Ash Street, and its extensions on the east side of Main Street,
and at number one on Ash Street, and its extensions on the west side of Main
Street, and increase in each direction from Ash Street one hundred (100)
numbers for each block or space between streets; and to distinguish such
numbers, the streets, avenues and highways shall be designated; reckoning from
said Ash Street, North First Avenue East, First Avenue East, North First Avenue
West, First Avenue West; and the same with all other streets running at right
angles with and crossing said Ash Street. (1977 Code § 11.58.050)
10-2-5: BUTTELMAN ADDITION:
   A.   Base: In the Buttelman addition in the city, Adams and California
Streets in said addition shall be taken and used as a base of numbering houses
fronting on streets, avenues and highways within said Buttelman addition. (1977
Code § 11.58.060)
   B.   Easterly And Westerly Numbering: On streets, avenues and highways
running easterly and westerly in said Buttelman addition, numbering shall
commence with number one on California Street and its extensions, and increase
in each direction from said California Street one hundred (100) numbers for
each block or space between two (2) streets; and to distinguish such numbers,
the streets aforesaid shall be designated; reckoning from California Street, as
East Jefferson Street, and West Jefferson Street, and East Front Street, and
West Front Street, and the same with all other streets running at right angles
with and crossing California Street. (1977 Code § 11.58.070)
   C.   Northerly And Southerly Numbering: On streets, avenues and highways
running northerly and southerly in said Buttelman addition, the numbering shall
commence with number one on Adams Street, and its extensions on the east side
of California Street, and increase in each direction from Adams Street one
hundred (100) numbers for each block or space between two (2) streets, and to
distinguish such numbers, the streets, avenues and highways shall be
designated; reckoning from said Adams Street, at North Arizona Street, and
South Arizona Street, North Colorado West, and South Colorado West; and the
same in all other streets, avenues and highways running at right angles with
and crossing said Adams Street. (1977 Code § 11.58.080)
10-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officials Designated: The city clerk shall designate the
numbers of all houses in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
allowing one number for each twenty five feet (25') of ground front in each
block, and shall furnish the owner of each house now or hereafter to be built
with its proper number as soon as completed.
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Number:
      1.   When any building is not correctly numbered or not numbered at all,
the city clerk shall give each building its proper number and require the same
to be put upon such building in a conspicuous place next to the street or
avenue as the case may be, at the expense of the owner. (1977 Code § 11.58.090;
amd. 2000 Code)
      2.   Until the building is numbered, the city will not provide any
utility service to the building. (2000 Code)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; JURISDICTION; ZONING MAP
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Territorial Jurisdiction
11-1-3: Incorporation Of Official Zoning Map
11-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF THREE FORKS,
MONTANA and may be referred to as the "Zoning Ordinance"; and the map referred
to herein is identified by the title "Official Zoning Map, Three Forks,
Montana", and may be known as the "Zoning Map". (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-1-2: TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The zoning jurisdiction of the City shall include the land within the corporate
limits of the City established on the "Official Zoning Map, Three Forks,
Montana". (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-1-3: INCORPORATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Incorporation: The "Official Zoning Map, Three Forks, Montana", and all
notations, references, and other information shown on the Map are hereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of this Section.
   B.   Amendments: If any changes to the Map are made by amendment of this
Title in accordance with Chapter 19 of this Title, such changes shall be made
to the Official Zoning Map and signed, dated and certified upon the Map or upon
the material attached thereto.
   C.   City Office Final Authority: Regardless of the existence of purported
copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or
published, the Official Zoning Map kept in the City office shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water area, buildings,
and other structures in the City.
   D.   Adoption Of New Map: In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new
Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The
new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the Seal of the City under the
following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes
and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Three Forks, Montana".
Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be
preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES:
For the purpose of this title, the following words and terms have the meanings
indicated herein:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   C.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust, and
company, as well as an individual.
   D.   The words "used for" shall include the meaning "designed for".
   E.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "parcel", or "tract".
   F.   The word "building" includes "structure" and "structure" includes
"building".
   G.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: The use of land or a subordinate building or a
portion of a main building, such use being secondary to or incidental to the
principal use or structure.
   AGRICULTURE: The use of land for farming, dairying, grazing, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, silviculture, and animal and poultry husbandry and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided, that the operation does not include commercial feedlots or commercial
facilities for slaughtering, dressing, and packing of animal product.
   ALLEY: A public right of way, not over twenty feet (20') in width, which
provides a secondary means of access to a property.
   APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or portion thereof designed for or providing
both individual guest rooms or suites of rooms and dwelling units or
apartments.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A residential structure having a common kitchen
facility occupied by two (2) or more persons living together for the purpose of
common support in which there is nonmedical aid provided on a twenty four (24)
hour basis. The operator of a residential facility, members of the operator's
family or persons employed as staff may reside in the facility.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled, or partially
dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display, sale or rental of new or used automobiles, trailers, or trucks,
where no repair work is done except minor incidental repair to vehicles for
display. Vehicles must be capable of operation under their own power at all
times.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOMES: A single-family dwelling which remains owner
occupied at all times providing one or more guest rooms for compensation, and
where food service is limited to breakfast which may be served to overnight
guests only.
   BOARDING (LODGING OR ROOMING) HOUSE: A building, or portion thereof, other
than a hotel, where lodging and/or meals for five (5) or more persons, but not
more than twenty (20) persons, are provided for compensation.
   BUILDING: Any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING COVERAGE: That percentage of the total lot area of a lot which is
covered by the principal building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of a building to the highest point of the
roof.
   BUILDING LINE: The edge or side of a building nearest a lot line.
   BUILDING LINE, FRONT: The line of that part of the building nearest and
parallel to the front lot line of the lots.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A structure in which is conducted the main use of the
lot on which the structure is located.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A single residential structure on a continuous
permanent foundation.
   CARETAKER RESIDENCE: A single-family residence placed in conjunction with
and/or attached to a land use that requires twenty four (24) hour care in order
to protect the livelihood of a business. If detached, structure shall be of a
temporary, movable nature such as a mobile or modular home, and be reviewed by
the City as a conditional use as set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
   CHURCH: A building designed and used for public worship by any religious
body.
   CONDITIONAL USE: The relaxation of the strict terms of this title to permit
uses in districts where such uses may require additional controls and
safeguards not required of otherwise permitted uses.
   DAYCARE FACILITIES: Any entity that cares for three (3) or more children
from two (2) or more families for more than three (3) consecutive weeks.
   DRIVE-IN EATING ESTABLISHMENT: A building or structure from which persons
are served prepared food and drink in their automobile or at curbside, but
which may or may not have an area for customers to receive and/or eat food
outside of an automobile.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by one or
more families.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory fabricated transportable building
designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a
building site into structure on a permanent foundation and which complies with
the Montana Building, Plumbing, Electrical, and Mechanical Construction Codes
and the rules and regulations for manufactured housing of the Building Code
Division of the Montana Department of Administration. The term is intended to
apply to major assemblies and does not include prefabricated panels, trusses,
plumbing trees, and other prefabricated subelements which are to be
incorporated into a structure at the site.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled transportable building unit built
on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation. A travel trailer is not a mobile home.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by two (2) or more families.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A building designed for occupancy by one family and
its resident domestic employees.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof providing separate cooking,
eating, sleeping and living facilities for one family and its resident domestic
employees.
   FAMILY: One or more persons living, sleeping, and usually cooking and eating
on the premises as a single housekeeping unit.
   FLASHING SIGN: A sign, part or all of whose lights go on and off, or appear
to go on and off, intermittently.
   GARAGE, AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR: Any building or premises used for major repairs
of motor vehicles, but not including auto wrecking or storage of wrecked cars.
Repair activities shall be conducted in enclosed spaces or screened from public
view.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the main
building designed and/or used for the shelter or storage of vehicles of the
occupants of the main building; such area to be considered the required off
street parking.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: A building or premises where gasoline, oil,
batteries, tires and automotive accessories may be sold and routine automotive
servicing and parts replacement is performed. However, tire recapping, major
repair or bodywork, painting, welding, auto wrecking and motor overhaul are
specifically excluded.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA: The total area of all floors of a building measured from
exterior walls.
   GROWTH POLICY: Includes any document or portion of any document duly adopted
by the city council which is intended to guide the growth and development of
the area.
   HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling and/or accessory
building for occupations at home by one or more persons residing in the
dwelling unit. Said activity must be clearly incidental to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and will not change the character or appearance
thereof.
   HOTEL: A building containing six (6) or more rooms designed for and rented
out for sleeping purposes for transients, and where only a general kitchen and
dining room are provided within the building or in an accessory building.
   JUNKYARD: Primary or accessory use of a parcel of land for the storage,
dismantling or selling of cast off or salvage material of any sort in any other
than the original form in which it was manufactured and/or assembled, but not
including reconditioned secondhand furniture, fixtures, or antiques sold from
within a walled building.
   LOADING BERTH: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a principal
building for the parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading
merchandise and which has direct access from a public street or alley.
   LOT: A parcel or plot of land shown as an individual unit of ownership on
the most recent plat or other record of subdivision.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets or, if on
a curbed street, where the angle of intersection of curve tangents is less than
one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   LOT DEPTH: The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be the narrowest part of the lot
having street frontage. When a corner lot has two (2) street frontages of the
same width, the owner may determine which frontage will be considered the
front.
   LOT, INTERIOR: Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
   LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth.
Required lot width in this title shall be measured at building setback line.
   MEETING HALL: A building or part of a building used for the assembly of
persons for singular events such as conferences, religious function, catered
occasions, special events, club meetings, music venue, philanthropic purposes,
and other such activities.
   MINIWAREHOUSE/SELF-STORAGE UNITS: A building(s) and premises that provide
separate storage areas for individual or business uses. The storage areas are
designed to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal
property. Accessory uses may include living quarters for a resident manager
and/or security and leasing offices. Use of the storage areas, service and
repair operation, or manufacturing is not considered accessory to the
miniwarehouse/self-storage use.
   MOBILE HOME 1 : A factory assembled structure or structures; with dimensions
of ten feet (10') wide by thirty five feet (35') long or greater, equipped with
the necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a
unit or units on its (their) own running gear and designed to be used as a
single dwelling unit(s) without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land providing two (2) or more mobile home lots
for lease or rent to the general public.
   MOTEL: See definition of Hotel.
   MULTI-UNIT HOTELS OR MOTELS: A grouping of cabins designed for and rented
out for sleeping purposes for transients, typically containing a kitchen,
bathroom(s), living and sleeping area or separate sleeping area. The units may
be arranged as separate units or duplex units with off street parking either
adjacent to or separate from each unit.
   NURSING HOME: A building or portion thereof used for the housing of and
caring for the ambulatory, aged, or infirm by a professional staff.
   PARKING LOT: A structure or an area, other than a public street or alley
designed for use for the temporary parking of motor vehicles and available for
public use whether free, for compensation, or an accommodation for customers or
clients.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space located off any public right of way which
is at least nine feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18') in size for parking any motor
vehicle, with room to get out of either side of the vehicle, with adequate
maneuvering space, and with access to public streets or alleys.
   PROFESSIONAL (BUSINESS) OFFICES: Offices to be occupied by accountants,
architects, dentists, doctors, engineers, lawyers, insurance agents, real
estate agents, or other professions which are of a similar nature.
   RESTAURANT: A public eating house which does not provide curbside or
automobile service.
   RETAIL SALES: An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly
to the ultimate consumers.
   ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding (Lodging Or Rooming) House.
   ROOMING UNIT: See definition of Unit, Rooming.
   SCREENED: Concealed or cut off from direct visual contact.
   SETBACK: The horizontal distance required between any structure and a lot
line. This distance to be measured at right angles to the lot line. The setback
line shall be parallel with the lot lines.
   SHOPPING CENTER: One or more buildings containing at least three (3)
separate retail businesses planned, developed, and managed as a unit, with off
street parking provided on the property.
   SIGN: Any face of any lettered or pictorial device and/or structure designed
to inform or attract attention.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the shape or size of any portion of a
building or of the supporting members of the girders, floor joist, or roof
joist.
   STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling constructed as part of a series of
dwellings, each of which is either attached to the adjacent dwelling or
dwellings by party walls, or is located immediately adjacent thereto with no
visible separation between the dwellings. If individually owned, each townhouse
may be located on an individual lot.
   TOWNHOUSE CLUSTER: A building consisting of three (3) or more
noncommunicating, attached, one-family dwellings placed side by side or back to
back, with no unit located over another, and having a common wall between each
adjacent dwelling. If the building or land remains under common ownership, a
townhouse cluster may be located on a single lot.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses which is not more than eight
feet (8') in body width nor thirty two feet (32') in body length.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any area or tract of land rented or held out for rent
to one or more persons or users for parking or placement of temporary
recreational vacation housing.
   UNIT, EFFICIENCY: An apartment unit with unseparated area for sleeping and/
or cooking.
   UNIT, ROOMING: A space for human occupancy lacking private bath and/or
kitchen facilities with a floor area of at least one thousand four hundred
fifty (1,450) square feet.
   USE: Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied or any activity,
occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be carried on in a
building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   USE, CONDITIONAL: Uses, other than permitted uses, that may be allowed in a
specific district but requiring additional safeguards to maintain and assure
the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the community and to
maintain the character of the district.
   VARIANCE: The relaxation of the strict application of the terms of this
title with respect to mechanical requirements such as setback requirements,
yard requirements, area requirements, building height, parking and loading
space requirements, etc., where specific physical conditions unique to the site
of the lot would create an unreasonable burden by making its development for
permitted uses difficult or impossible.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment for the sale of goods and
merchandise for resale instead of direct consumption.
   YARD, FRONT: An open space extending across the full width of the lot
between the front building line and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR: An open space extending across the full width of the lot between
the rear building line of the principal building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: An open space extending from the side building line to a side
lot line running from the front to the rear of the lot.
   ZONING COMMISSION 2 : As herein used shall mean the duly appointed members
of the zoning and planning board for the city of Three Forks, Montana.
   ZONING OFFICIAL: That official designated, from time to time by the City
Council as the official responsible for accepting, reviewing and approving or
rejecting plans for zoning or occupancy, and applications for zoning and
occupancy permits, and for the interpretation and enforcement of ordinances
related thereto. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 243, 12-10-1996; Ord. 253-99,
10-13-1998; 2000 Code; Ord. 267, 2-11-2003; Ord. 334-13, 9-10-2013; Ord. 366-
2016, 10-11-2016; Ord. 370-2016, 11-9-2016; Ord. 380-2017, 1-9-2018; Ord. 399-
2023, 3-14-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 11-16-2 of this title.
2 1. See also section
  2-1-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Districts Established
11-3-2: Interpretations Of Boundaries
11-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The following zoning districts are hereby established for the zoning
jurisdictional area of the City. For the interpretation of this Title, the
zoning districts have been formulated to realize the general purposes as set
forth herein. The districts shall be named and designated as follows:
District Designation
District                               Designation
Agricultural District                  AG
Agricultural/Residential District      AG/R
Residential District                   R
Residential/Airport Influence District R/AI
Residential Medium Density District    RM
Neighborhood Highway Business District NHB
Central Business District              CBD
General Industrial District            GI
Public Lands Institutional District    PLI
Transitional District                  T
 
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
11-3-2: INTERPRETATIONS OF BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the boundaries shall be interpreted as following the
nearest logical line to that shown.
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center line of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines;
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following such City limits;
   D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main track(s);
   E.   Boundaries indicated as following the center line of streams, rivers,
canals, or ditches shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   F.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
on the Official Zoning Map shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   G.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map or where other
circumstances or controversy arise over district boundaries, the City Council
shall interpret the district boundary. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 4
USES; DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Interpretation Of Uses
11-4-2: Compliance With District Regulations
11-4-3: Adult Use Marijuana
11-4-1: INTERPRETATION OF USES:
If questions arise concerning the appropriate classification of a particular
use, or if the specific use is not listed, the city council shall determine the
appropriate classification for that use. In interpreting use classification,
the city council shall determine:
   A.   That the use and its operation are compatible with the uses permitted
in the district wherein the use is proposed to be located.
   B.   That the use is similar to one or more uses permitted in the district
wherein it is proposed to be located.
   C.   That the use will not cause substantial injury to values of property in
the neighborhood or district wherein it is proposed to be located.
   D.   That neither the intent of this title nor the intent of the district
will be abrogated by such classification. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-4-2: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
Except as hereafter provided:
   A.   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and
no building, structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless it is in conformity with
all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
1) to exceed the height or bulk; 2) to accommodate or house a greater number of
families; 3) to occupy a greater percentage of lot area; 4) to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces.
   C.   No part of any yard, or other open space, or off street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this title, shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   D.   No yard or lot existing at the time of adoption of this title shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall meet at least the
minimum requirements established by this title.
   E.   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city or the city's
extraterritorial limits shall be considered to be in a similar or nearest
classification district or designated by any county zoning ordinance. However,
the city council shall determine the appropriate zoning for any/all areas to be
annexed to the city's extraterritorial limits and can request a recommendation
from the zoning and planning board and shall take into consideration the area
master plan. Necessary public hearings shall be held. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983;
amd. 2000 Code)
11-4-3: ADULT USE MARIJUANA:
It is the intent of this section to allow structures within various zoning
districts, excluding agricultural zoning districts, to be used as conditional
uses for the sale or distribution of marijuana as allowed by Montana law.
Structures shall not be located closer than the distance allowed under Title
16, Chapter 12, MCA from any private or public school, or any church or public
place of religious worship, or any park owned or operated by the City, within
the municipal boundary or extraterritorial zoning boundary. (Ord. 392-2022, 5-
10-2022)
CHAPTER 5
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Purpose
11-5A-2: Permitted Uses
11-5A-3: Conditional Uses
11-5A-4: Lot Area And Width
11-5A-5: Lot Coverage
11-5A-6: Yard Requirements
11-5A-7: Animal Enclosures; Setbacks
11-5A-8: Building Height
11-5A-1: PURPOSE:
Agricultural land-use activities are closely associated with the Three Forks
community. Much of the land surrounding the existing City limits and within the
City's jurisdictional boundary is used for agricultural purposes. This
designation reflects this important activity. The purpose being to encourage
continued agricultural use of the land and discourage random subdivision and
development activity far from community support facilities (i.e., sewer and
water). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
!!!
Accessory uses which are customarily and necessarily related to and included
with an agricultural pursuit.
Cultivation of ground, including the preparation of soil, planting or seeding
and raising and harvesting of crops.
Home occupations.
Raising, feeding and managing of livestock, poultry and other animals
(excluding confined feedlots and poultry yards).
Sale, on the premises, of products produced thereon.
Single-family dwelling(s) associated with an agricultural pursuit, provided
minimum lot area and width as herein set forth is adhered to.
Wildlife areas and game refuges owned by governmental agencies; accessory
buildings associated with said uses. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the AG Agricultural District as
conditional uses as regulated in Chapter 12 of this Title:
Camping facilities and/or trailer parks.
Churches, schools, and cemeteries.
Golf courses, golf and country clubs, miniature golf courses, driving ranges,
rodeo grounds, public and private parks, and playgrounds.
Single-family nonfarm dwellings, provided said uses are in compliance to lot
area requirements as set forth. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Minimum lot area in this District shall be ten (10) acres with a lot width not
less than three hundred thirty feet (330'). No lot shall have a depth greater
than three (3) times its width. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be covered by the
principal and accessory buildings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
Front yard: sixty five feet (65').
Rear yard: fifty feet (50').
Side yard: fifty feet (50') each side.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-7: ANIMAL ENCLOSURES; SETBACKS:
All pens, coops, barns, stables or permanent corrals shall be set back not less
than one hundred feet (100') from any residence or public road and not less
than fifty feet (50') from any property line. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5A-8: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height for buildings designed and constructed for human
occupancy shall be twenty four feet (24'). All other structures may exceed this
height except structures located in height restricted areas in conjunction with
the Three Forks airport. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
ARTICLE B. AG/R AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Purpose
11-5B-2: Permitted Uses
11-5B-3: Conditional Uses
11-5B-4: Lot Area And Width
11-5B-5: Lot Coverage
11-5B-6: Yard Requirements
11-5B-7: Animal Enclosures; Setbacks
11-5B-8: Building Height
11-5B-1: PURPOSE:
This District designation pertains to land that continues to be used for
agricultural purposes but, because of its close proximity to established
residential neighborhoods and City services, reasonable single-family
development is allowed. Developments and land uses within this area shall be
reviewed in accordance with local criteria and specific attention will be given
in relation to the availability of City sewer and water service as well as
ground water situation and other limitations for urban development. (Ord. 203,
12-9-1983)
11-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
!!! Accessory uses.
Agriculture uses (excluding confined feedlots and poultry yards).
Sale, on the premises, of products produced thereon.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the AG/R Agricultural/Residential District
as conditional uses as regulated in Chapter 12 of this Title:
Camping facilities and/or mobile home parks.
Churches, schools, cemeteries.
Golf courses, golf and country clubs, miniature golf courses, golf driving
ranges, rodeo grounds, public and private parks, and playgrounds.
Home occupations.
Veterinary clinics. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Minimum lot area in this District shall be five (5) acres except every lot or
plot of land on which a single-family dwelling is erected shall contain an area
of not less than one acre with a lot width not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150'). No lot shall have a depth greater than three (3) times its width. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area shall be covered by the
principal and accessory buildings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
   Front yard: thirty five feet (35').
   Rear yard: twenty five feet (25').
Side yard: twenty five feet (25') each side.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-7: ANIMAL ENCLOSURES; SETBACKS:
All pens, coops, barns, stables, or permanent corrals shall be set back not
less than one hundred feet (100') from any residence or public road and not
less than fifty feet (50') from any property line. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-5B-8: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height for buildings designed and constructed for human
occupancy shall be twenty four feet (24'). All other structures may exceed this
height except structures located in height restricted areas in conjunction with
the Three Forks airport. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6A-1: Purpose
11-6A-2: Permitted Uses
11-6A-3: Conditional Uses
11-6A-4: Lot Area And Width
11-6A-5: Lot Coverage And Floor Area
11-6A-6: Yard Requirements
11-6A-7: Off Street Parking
11-6A-8: Off Street Loading
11-6A-9: Building Height
11-6A-10: Site Design Standards (For Any Newly Annexed Lots)
11-6A-11: Specific Requirements For Mobile Homes
11-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to recognize the existing residential
neighborhoods of Three Forks as well as those areas which are deemed
appropriate for residential expansions. Rather than adhering to a strict
uniform pattern of single- family detached dwellings, a variety of building
types and densities will be encouraged to provide a balance within each
neighborhood as well as in the entire community. However, efforts shall be made
to group multi-family dwellings and mobile homes in suitable areas. (Ord. 203,
12-9-1983)
11-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
!!! Accessory uses.
Mobile homes, based on criteria as set forth in section
11-6A-11 of this article.
Newly constructed one-family dwellings.
Previously occupied single-family homes.
Temporary buildings for and during construction only. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983;
amd. Ord. 229, 7-11-1995)
11-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the R residential district as conditional
uses as regulated in chapter 12 of this title:
Assisted living facilities.
Bed and breakfast homes.
Churches.
Daycare facilities.
Home occupations as defined in this title.
Medical marijuana distribution structure.
Mobile home parks as provided in chapter 16 of this title.
Multi-family dwellings.
Nursing homes. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-2003; Ord. 324-11, 8-
23-2011)
11-6A-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Except for existing lots of record which cannot be reassembled to conform to
this requirement (variance procedures for structure still apply), the following
lot areas and widths are required: (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
   A.   Single-family dwelling: Each lot shall contain not less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet, and be not less than fifty feet (50') wide. All
newly annexed lots, newly zoned and newly platted lots shall contain not less
than ten thousand five hundred (10,500) square feet. In case of subdivisions of
five (5) lots or more, for every five (5) lots, one lot can be a minimum of
nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
   B.   Multi-family dwelling: Lot area for all multiple-family units shall not
be less than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet per dwelling unit.
All newly annexed lots, newly zoned and newly platted lots shall contain not
less than five thousand two hundred fifty (5,250) square feet per dwelling
unit. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 282-04-05, 8-9-2004)
   C.   Mobile home: Minimum lot area and width same as single- family
dwelling. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6A-5: LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA:
   A.   Single-family dwelling, mobile home: Not more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the lot shall be occupied by the principal and accessory buildings.
Each dwelling shall have a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet of floor
area in its living quarters. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 262-2000, 1-11-
2000)
   B.   Multi-family dwelling: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot
shall be occupied by the principal and accessory buildings. Each dwelling unit
shall have a minimum of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet in its living
quarters. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6A-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yards:
Front yard: A fifteen foot (15') front yard shall be provided on all frontages.
Side yard: Side yards abutting interior lot lines shall not be less than ten
feet (10'). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
Rear yard: A rear yard shall be provided of not less than fifteen feet (15') in
relation to a dwelling structure. Detached garages and other accessory
buildings may be constructed within five feet (5') of alley property lines as
long as vehicle ingress/egress does not occur from alley side of garage.
Measurements for yard requirements will be taken from the footprint of all
structures. Overhangs (i.e., eaves, cantilevers, second floor decks, etc.) are
allowed to extend no more than forty inches (40") beyond the footprint of the
structure and not be counted as part of the setback measurement. If overhang
extends more than forty inches (40"), the extra distance beyond this
measurement will count off the setback measurement respectively. (Ord. 267, 2-
11-2003)
11-6A-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking provisions shall be as set forth in chapter 13 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6A-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading provisions shall be as set forth in chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6A-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height in this district shall be thirty six feet (36') for all
dwellings and twenty feet (20') for accessory buildings. (Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-6A-10: SITE DESIGN STANDARDS (FOR ANY NEWLY ANNEXED LOTS):
   A.   Sidewalks: A continuous concrete sidewalk five feet (5') in width shall
be provided between the property line and all street frontages.
   B.   Boulevards: A continuous boulevard six feet (6') in width shall be
provided abutting the street side of each sidewalk. (Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-6A-11: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE HOMES:
In addition to the residential requirements as set forth in this district, the
following criteria shall be reviewed by the zoning official in relation to the
placement of a mobile home on any residential lot prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit:
   A.   Mobile homes shall have a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet of
occupied space and either be a double section or single section unit that is
architecturally designed for a residential neighborhood.
   B.   Mobile homes shall have utilities connected in accordance with Three
Forks requirements.
   C.   Mobile homes shall have siding material of a type customarily used on
site constructed residences.
   D.   Mobile homes shall be placed on a permanent foundation.
   E.   Mobile homes shall be anchored to the ground.
   F.   Mobile homes shall have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed.
   G.   Mobile homes shall have roofing material of a type customarily used on
site constructed residences. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-
2003)
   H.   A mobile home shall have been manufactured no more than ten (10) years
before filing the application for the building permit and must bear a housing
and urban development ("HUD") seal indicating it has met the United States
mobile home construction and safety standards.
   I.   The exterior structure and condition of the mobile home must be in good
repair without apparent damage or defects. (Ord. 227, 2-8-1994; amd. Ord. 267,
2-11-2003)
ARTICLE B. RM RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6B-1: Purpose
11-6B-2: Permitted Uses
11-6B-3: Conditional Uses
11-6B-4: Lot Area And Width
11-6B-5: Lot Coverage And Floor Area
11-6B-6: Yard Requirements
11-6B-7: Off Street Parking
11-6B-8: Off Street Loading
11-6B-9: Building Height
11-6B-10: Site Design Standards
11-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to recognize existing residential neighborhoods
of the city and provide for medium density residential development within the
city in areas that present few or no development problems. This district also
allows for neighborhood facilities which serve and enhance residential
development while preserving the character and nature of a residential
neighborhood. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
Effective upon enactment hereof the zoning designation of RM residential medium
density district will no longer be utilized by the city. The permitted uses of
this district are now listed as conditional uses in the residential district
(article A of this chapter). Planned unit developments (chapter 11 of this
title) may also be an option for this type of development. (Ord. 267, 2-11-
2003)
11-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses:
Fences.
Greenhouses.
Private garages.
Private or jointly owned community center recreational facilities, swimming
pools, tennis courts and spas.
Temporary buildings incidental to construction work.
Tool sheds for storage of domestic supplies.
Other buildings and structures typically accessory to residential uses.
One-family dwellings.
Public parks.
Townhouse clusters.
Two- to four-family dwellings. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Assisted living facilities.
Bed and breakfast homes.
Churches.
Daycare centers.
Golf courses.
Group homes.
"Home occupations" as defined in this title.
Medical marijuana distribution structure.
Public buildings.
Schools. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-2003; Ord. 324-11, 8-23-
2011)
11-6B-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
The depth of each lot shall not be less than its width. Minimum lot area and
width for the dwelling types permitted in this district shall be as follows:
   A.   One-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Minimum lot area: Seven thousand eight hundred (7,800) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Minimum lot area: Nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width (excluding corner lots): Seventy four feet (74').
      3.   Minimum lot width for corner lots: Seventy nine feet (79').
   C.   Three- And Four-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Minimum lot area: Fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width (excluding corner lots): One hundred eight feet
(108').
      3.   Minimum lot width for corner lots: One hundred thirteen feet (113').
   D.   Townhouses:
      1.   Minimum average lot area per dwelling in a townhouse cluster: Three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet.
      2.   Minimum lot width: The width of the interior dwelling units. (Ord.
243, 12-10-1996)
11-6B-5: LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA:
Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot shall be occupied by the principal
and accessory buildings. The average floor area of all dwellings on a lot shall
be not less than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
11-6B-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot in an RM district shall have not less than the following minimum
yards:
Front yard: Fifteen feet (15') on all frontages.
Side yards abutting interior lot lines, with the exception of lot lines within
a townhouse cluster: Ten feet (10').
Rear yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
11-6B-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Each dwelling unit shall be provided with not less than two (2) off street
parking spaces. Uncovered off street parking lots with more than two (2) spaces
shall not be located between the front yard setback line and the front facade
of the building. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
11-6B-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Provisions for off street loading shall be as set forth in chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
11-6B-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height in this district shall be thirty six feet (36') for all
dwellings and twenty feet (20') for accessory buildings. (Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-6B-10: SITE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Sidewalks: A continuous concrete sidewalk five feet (5') in width shall
be provided between the property line and all street frontages.
   B.   Boulevards: A continuous boulevard six feet (6') in width shall be
provided abutting the street side of each sidewalk required in this section.
(Ord. 243, 12-10-1996)
ARTICLE C. R/AI RESIDENTIAL/AIRPORT INFLUENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6C-1: Purpose
11-6C-2: Permitted Uses
11-6C-3: Conditional Uses
11-6C-4: Lot Area And Width
11-6C-5: Lot Coverage And Floor Area
11-6C-6: Yard Requirements
11-6C-7: Off Street Parking
11-6C-8: Off Street Loading
11-6C-9: Building Height
11-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The residential/airport influence district pertains to a residential platted
area in close proximity to the north runway zone of the Pogrebra Field Airport.
This designation allows the continuation of residential development but still
recognizes the impacts the airport traffic will have in terms of noise and
safety on future residents. The district designation discourages concentrated
residential development but allows a variety of single-family structures and
low density multi-family structures which are designed and built to minimize
the airport noise impacts (indicated to zoning official at time of zoning
permit application and/or during conditional use review by city). (Ord. 253-99,
10-13-1998)
11-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses shall be the same as the R district (structures shall be
designed and built to minimize noise impacts). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in this R/AI residential/airport influence
district as conditional uses as regulated in chapter 12 of this title:
"Home occupations" as defined in this title.
Medical marijuana distribution structure.
Multi-family dwellings (maximum 4 unit structures designed and built to
minimize noise impacts). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 324-11, 8-23-2011)
11-6C-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Lot area and width shall be the same as the R district but excluding multi-
family structures greater than four (4) units. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6C-5: LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA:
Lot coverage and floor area shall be the same as the R district. (Ord. 203, 12-
9-1983)
11-6C-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Yard requirements shall be the same as the R district. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6C-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be the same as the R district. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6C-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading shall be the same as the R district. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-6C-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Building height shall be a maximum of twenty four feet (24') unless further
restricted by FAA height regulations in conjunction with proximity to the
airport runway. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 7
NHB NEIGHBORHOOD HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Permitted Uses
11-7-3: Conditional Uses
11-7-4: Lot Area And Width
11-7-5: Lot Coverage
11-7-6: Yard Requirements
11-7-7: Off-Street Parking
11-7-8: Off-Street Loading
11-7-9: Building Height
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this District is to provide for business uses that are readily
accessible to major roadways serving Three Forks and also including the
flexibility of providing services to various residential areas. Efforts shall
be made to avoid extensive strip business development that detracts from the
Central Business District. Uses that conflict directly with a residential area
shall also be avoided. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
Antique shops.
Art and music supply stores.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Bars, cocktail lounges.
Beverage, bottling, and distribution.
Bowling alleys.
Building materials sales and showrooms (enclosed storage).
Car washes.
Farm equipment sales and service.
Food and drug stores.
Furniture and appliance stores.
Gasoline service stations.
Hardware stores and home centers.
Hotels and motels.
Laundries and dry-cleaning establishments.
Liquor stores.
Mortuaries.
Post offices.
Professional and business offices.
Restaurants, cafes, and drive-in eating establishments.
Signs.
Sporting goods stores.
Temporary buildings for and during construction, only.
Theaters.
Vehicle and boat sales, showrooms, and service areas.
Veterinary clinics, small animal hospitals with completely enclosed runs.
Uses customarily accessory to those listed. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; Ord. 391-
2021, 9-28-2021)
11-7-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the NHB Neighborhood Highway Business
District as conditional uses as regulated in Chapter 12 of this Title:
Amusement and recreational activities.
"Caretaker residence" as defined in this title and of a duration that shall not
exceed the use for which it is serving.
Daycare facilities.
Medical marijuana distribution structure.
Miniwarehouse/self-storage units.
Multi-unit hotels or motels:
   A.   The units must be a nonresidential construction pursuant to the
requirements of title 12, chapter 1, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this code.
   B.   The structures approved by issuance of a zoning permit shall not be
converted to long term rental occupancy as defined by Montana code and
administrative rules.
   C.   The maximum length of stay in a unit shall be limited to twenty nine
(29) days. Failure to comply with the twenty nine (29) day maximum length of
stay shall result in the city of Three Forks' termination of the conditional
use permit.
   D.   Units must be separated by a minimum of ten feet (10') at any point of
construction including any roof or carport overhangs or exterior walls.
   E.   A landscaping plan creating an attractive and pleasant environment and
effectively screening all building and site utilities as well as trash
receptacles shall be reviewed and approved by the city of Three Forks prior to
the issuing of a zoning permit.
   F.   Off street parking shall conform to the requirements of chapter 13,
"Off Street Parking", of this title.
   G.   Mobile home and modular units are not permitted. All structures must be
stick built on site and meet all state commercial building codes.
   H.   A nonconversion agreement must be filed with the Gallatin County clerk
and recorder.
Retail uses in addition to those permitted uses listed.
"Sexually oriented business" as defined in title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
Shopping centers in tracts of five (5) or more acres, which meet the overall
height and use requirements, but which combine parking areas, separate
pedestrian circulation facilities, common signs and common facilities for
access.
Wholesale distributors with on premises retail outlets, provided warehousing is
limited to commodities which are sold on the premises.
Work-live development.
   A.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of a work-live development may be
residential in use.
   B.   Condominiums are not permitted.
   C.   Each Work-Live Development must be owned by the same person/entity.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 277-03-04, 2-10-2004; Ord. 324-11, 8-23-2011;
Ord. 366-2016, 10-11-2016; Ord. 371-2016, 11-9-2016; Ord. 386-2020, 1-28-2020;
Ord. 394-2022, 5-10-2022)
11-7-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Lot area for this district shall not be less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet and no lot width shall be less than seventy five feet (75')
(except shopping centers which require at least 5 acres). No lot depth shall be
greater than three (3) times its width. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-7-5: LOT COVERAGE:
The entire lot exclusive of required yards and parking may be occupied by
principal and accessory buildings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-7-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS 1 :
Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
Side yard: Eight feet (8') on each side. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. Shopping center developments may have specific rear and side yard
  requirements waived based on overall design of project.
11-7-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-7-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-7-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height in this district shall be thirty two feet (32'). (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8A-1: Purpose
11-8A-2: Permitted Uses
11-8A-3: Conditional Uses
11-8A-4: Lot Area And Width
11-8A-5: Lot Coverage
11-8A-6: Yard Requirements
11-8A-7: Off-Street Parking
11-8A-8: Off-Street Loading
11-8A-9: Building Height
11-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The Central Business District is intended to be the central focus of the City's
business, government, service and cultural activities. The uses in this
District should be those which are appropriate to such a center and
inappropriate uses should be excluded. Room should be provided in appropriate
areas for logical and planned expansion of the present central business area.
The area should be developed as an attractive and pleasant environment,
recognizing its importance to the community and its historic heritage. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
11-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in the NHB District.
Ambulance service.
Bakeries.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Bars, cocktail lounges.
Churches.
Dressmaking.
Financial institutions.
Fire stations.
Hotels and motels.
Laundry and dry cleaning.
Meeting and lodge halls.
Muffler sales and service shops.
Museums, libraries, and galleries.
Parking lots.
Printing offices.
Private schools, such as dance, business, secretarial and technical but not
private or public elementary or secondary schools.
Public offices.
Repair services for clothes, dolls, small appliances, watches, glasses, and
such other items.
Restaurants and cafes.
Retail sales such as:
   Candy
   Clothing
   Furniture
   Jewelry
   but excluding heavy machinery.
Signs.
Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
Theaters, except drive-ins.
Wholesale establishments that use samples, but do not stock on premises.
Uses customarily accessory to those listed. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the CBD central business district as
conditional uses as regulated in chapter 12 of this title:
   Amusement and recreational activities.
   Assisted living facilities.
   Daycare facilities.
   Medical marijuana distribution structure.
   One-family and multiple-family dwellings.
   Senior centers.
   "Sexually oriented business" as defined in title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
   Shopping centers.
   Any other retail use catering directly to consumers. Any other office
activity. Any other consumer service. Any other type of meeting hall or club,
financial institution or drive-in bank. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 250-98,
3-10-1998; Ord. 267, 2-11-2003; Ord. 277-03-04, 2-10-2004; Ord. 324-11, 8-23-
2011; Ord. 387-2020, 1-28-2020)
11-8A-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No minimum lot area or width is set forth. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8A-5: LOT COVERAGE:
Building may cover entire lot, provided other requirements are met. (Ord. 203,
12-9-1983)
11-8A-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
No minimum yards set forth except a fifteen foot (15') front yard shall be
required on all streets except Main Street (provided pedestrian walkways are
preserved). Necessary rear yard setbacks may be required on lots and business
uses which adjoin an alley. For all lots that are utilized primarily for
residential use in this district, the yard requirements will be the same as
those in the R district. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-8A-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8A-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8A-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No maximum building height is set forth. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
ARTICLE B. GI GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8B-1: Purpose
11-8B-2: Permitted Uses
11-8B-3: Conditional Uses
11-8B-4: Lot Area And Width
11-8B-5: Lot Coverage
11-8B-6: Yard Requirements
11-8B-7: Off Street Parking
11-8B-8: Off Street Loading
11-8B-9: Building Height
11-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for the community's needs for
wholesale trade, storage and warehousing, trucking and transportation
terminals, manufacturing and similar activities. Such uses should be related to
the city's major transportation facilities and be so situated that they can be
efficiently operated and yet create a minimum of traffic or other adverse
effects to the residential areas of the city. Residences shall not be permitted
in this district (excluding caretaker residence) and adequate screening from
existing residential neighborhoods may be necessary. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses.
Auto repair and body shops.
Beverage, bottling, and distributing.
Building equipment and materials, wholesale and retail sales, including storage
yards (screened).
Cabinet shops.
Cement products.
Electronic equipment, assembly and repair.
Feed and seed sales, wholesale and retail.
Flour and feed mills.
Food processing plants.
Freight terminals, truck or rail.
Gasoline bulk plants.
Gasoline service stations.
Implement sales and service.
Machine shops.
Manufacturing of light consumer goods, i.e., electronic equipment, appliances,
furniture, beverages.
Miniwarehouse/self-storage units:
   A.   Minimum aisle width between buildings shall be twenty four feet (24').
   B.   All stormwater must be contained and drained within the facility.
   C.   The storage facility's complex shall be surrounded by a chainlink fence
approximately eight feet (8') in height.
   D.   Outdoor storage of automobiles, boats and recreation vehicles is
permitted if they are within the fenced area. Outdoor exterior storage shall be
limited to ten percent (10%) of the indoor storage area. Parked vehicles shall
not interfere with traffic movement through the complex and shall meet the
minimum setbacks of the district.
   E.   One office/dwelling unit is permitted as an accessory use to provide
for a full time caretaker.
Outside storage, if accessory to permitted use and if screened from street and/
or any neighboring residential areas.
Paint shops.
Post offices.
Professional and business offices.
Repair and service establishments for light consumer goods, i.e., automobiles,
appliances, furniture.
Sign shops.
Signs.
Temporary buildings for and during construction, only.
Vehicle and boat sales and service.
Veterinary clinics.
Warehousing, enclosed. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 366-2016, 10-11-2016)
11-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed in the GI general industrial district as
conditional uses as regulated in chapter 12 of this title:
Accessory uses clearly subordinate to, but an integral part of the primary use
of the property, i.e., plant cafeteria, first aid station, recreational area,
caretaker residence.
Any manufacturing or industrial use (excluding confined livestock and poultry
yards) is provided by conditional use in this district if in compliance with
all provisions of this article. However, no use shall be permitted which causes
excessive noise, vibration, smoke, odor, dust or other particulate matter,
toxic or nontoxic matter, humidity, heat or glare which extends beyond the lot
boundaries of the specific use. "Excessive" is defined for these purposes as a
degree that could be observed and agreed upon by the majority of the city
council and determined to be offensive or a degree deemed by the state health
department to be injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare of the
residents of the area.
Medical marijuana distribution structure.
"Sexually oriented business" as defined in title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 277-03-04, 2-10-2004; Ord. 324-11, 8-23-2011)
11-8B-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Lot area for this district shall not be less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet and no lot width shall be less than seventy five feet
(75'). No lot shall have a depth greater than three (3) times its width. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
11-8B-5: LOT COVERAGE:
The entire lot exclusive of required yards and parking, may be occupied by the
principal and accessory buildings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8B-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
Rear yard: None 1 .
Side yard: None. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
 
Notes
  1. When a lot is adjacent to or faces upon another district, the yards shall
  meet the requirements of the adjoining district on that side. When a lot
1 abuts a street or alley on either side or the rear, a yard of at least 15
  feet shall be provided on the street or alley side.
   
11-8B-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8B-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-8B-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No maximum building height is set forth. However, structures located in areas
in conjunction with the Three Forks Airport may be restricted in height. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 9
PLI PUBLIC LANDS INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Permitted Uses
11-9-3: Lot Area And Width
11-9-4: Lot Coverage
11-9-5: Yard Requirements
11-9-6: Off-Street Parking
11-9-7: Off-Street Loading
11-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this District is to provide for major public and quasi-public
uses not included in other districts and largely under local and/or government
ownership. This District is to further provide for and to reserve land for
major open lands, institutional uses, and recreational and public service
activities for the existing as well as future benefit of the citizens of Three
Forks. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory buildings.
Airports and customary accessory uses required for operation of airports.
Cemeteries.
Museums, zoos, historic and culture exhibits.
Public and nonprofit quasi-public institutions, i.e., universities, elementary,
junior and senior high schools and hospitals.
Publicly owned land used for parks, playgrounds, and open space.
Temporary buildings for and during construction, only.
Other public buildings, i.e., fire and police stations and Municipal buildings
and utilities sites. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-3: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No specific lot area and width is set forth. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-4: LOT COVERAGE:
The entire lot, exclusive of required yards and parking, may be occupied by the
principal and accessory buildings. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
No requirement except when a lot is adjacent to another district. The yards
then shall be the same as the adjacent district. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-6: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking for this District shall be provided in accordance with
Chapter 13 of this Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-9-7: OFF-STREET LOADING:
Off-street loading for this District shall be provided in accordance with
Chapter 14 of this Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 10
T TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purpose
11-10-2: Application
11-10-3: Permitted Uses
11-10-4: Review Standards
11-10-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this District to create additional safeguards and/or
buffers in areas where two (2), perhaps conflicting, uses or districts join,
i.e., as uses near the airport, or where an area is in transition from one
major use to another, i.e., residential to business. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-10-2: APPLICATION:
The provisions of the T District may be added to any other district when the
symbol "T" is combined within any other district symbol. The provisions of the
T District shall be added to the provisions of the district to which it is
applied. (e.g., CBD-T means all the provisions of the CBD and T Districts are
applicable). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-10-3: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the district to which the T District is combined is
permitted in the T District itself, subject to direct review and approval of
provisions and requirements of this Title. In granting or denying a proposed
use and in establishing conditions for said use, this Chapter creates the T
District as well as the general standards provided for herein. (Ord. 203, 12-9-
1983)
11-10-4: REVIEW STANDARDS:
Creation of a T District shall be through action of the City Council. Said
action may be upon recommendation of the Zoning and Planning Board and shall
include specific development standards and may include performance standards.
The T District and specific standards for each T District shall be adopted
concurrently. Such specific standards may provide for:
   A.   Receiving a conditional use permit as provided in Chapter 12 of this
Title.
   B.   Prohibiting certain uses.
   C.   Prohibiting certain structures.
   D.   Reduced building height.
   E.   Special setbacks, yards, open spaces and buffers.
   F.   Fences and walls.
   G.   Regulation of lighting.
   H.   Regulation of vehicular ingress and egress.
   I.   Regulation of signs.
   J.   Regulation of time and certain activities.
   K.   Landscaping and maintenance thereof.
   L.   Time schedule of proposed development.
   M.   Regulations of odors, smoke, dust, airborne particles, vibration,
glare, heat, and noise.
   N.   Such other reasonable conditions to protect surrounding areas and
provide for orderly compatible development. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Special Conditions
11-11-3: Review And Approval, Procedures And Criteria
11-11-4: Duration Of Approval
11-11-5: Review Criteria
11-11-6: Responsibility For Impact Mitigation
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
Through the use of the planned unit development (PUD), the City intends to
promote flexibility and innovation in the development of land and the design of
development projects within the zoning jurisdiction of the City. The purpose of
this Chapter is to promote the following community objectives:
   A.   To ensure growth and development is in accordance with the City's
adopted Master Plan;
   B.   To promote logical development patterns of residential, commercial,
office, industrial and public uses;
   C.   To improve the design, quality and character of new development;
   D.   To ensure that new development will maintain and enhance the identity
and historical development patterns of the City, and to preserve historic
resources where feasible;
   E.   To minimize adverse environmental impacts of new development and to
protect special urban and natural features;
   F.   To protect existing neighborhoods from the harmful encroachment of
incompatible development;
   G.   To ensure adequate provision of public services such as water, sewer,
electricity, open space and public parks, and police and fire protection;
   H.   To avoid inappropriate development of lands and to provide adequate
drainage and reduction of flood damage; and
   I.   To protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
11-11-2: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Land Uses: An applicant may request approval of a planned unit
development having one or more principal uses or structures on a single parcel
of ground or contiguous parcels of ground. Any use or combination of uses may
be allowed in a planned unit development, provided such uses are consistent
with the City's Master Plan and with the provisions of Section
11-11-1 of this Chapter. It is not intended that this Section apply to zone
change requests for single parcels where the proposed use and site plan are
fully consistent with the district regulations of this Title.
   B.   Ownership: The land designated as a planned unit development shall be
either in one ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the
owners of all the property to be included.
   C.   Title Holdings: The approved final plan shall specify the manner of
holding title to areas and facilities of joint use. Normally such areas and
facilities shall be retained in title by the developers of the development or
deeded to an organization composed of all owners in the development.
   D.   Harmonious Arrangement: Each planned unit development shall consist of
a harmonious arrangement of uses, buildings, parking areas, circulation, signs,
service spaces as for snow storage and refuse collection, and open spaces.
   E.   Integrated Unit: Each planned unit development shall be designed as an
integrated unit that constitutes a safe, efficient, and convenient urban
environment. The construction of the planned unit development may be divided
into phases.
   F.   Individual Zoning District: Each planned unit development shall be
designated as an individual zoning district and numbered consecutively
beginning with PUD-1. Records containing the requirements and conditions of
approval for each planned unit development shall be retained in the office of
the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
   G.   Compliance With Supplementary Regulations: Unless the supplementary
regulations of this Title are specifically superseded in an approved planned
unit development plan, with the intent of complying with the provisions of
Section
11-11-1 of this Chapter and this Section, all planned unit developments shall
comply with the existing supplementary regulations.
   H.   Cessation Of Use: In such case that the approved uses and physical
features of a planned unit development cease to be in effect, the property
shall revert to the zoning classification in effect prior to approval of the
planned unit development. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
11-11-3: REVIEW AND APPROVAL, PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA:
Approval of a planned unit development shall consist of three (3) procedural
steps:
   A.   Concept Plan Review: An applicant shall submit, for informal review by
the Zoning and Planning Board, the concept plan for the proposed planned unit
development.
      1.   Concept Plan Submittal Requirements: The concept plan shall contain
sufficient information to demonstrate its compliance with the provisions of
this Section. Concept plan review offers the Zoning and Planning Board an
opportunity to review the applicants proposal to identify major problems and
potential solutions, and to advise the applicant of such matters prior to the
formal application. It is generally expected that the following information
shall be submitted for concept plan review:
         a.   Data regarding site conditions, land characteristics, available
community facilities and utilities, and other related general information about
adjacent land uses.
         b.   Conceptual drawing showing the proposed location of the
buildings, uses of land and significant features on the site.
         c.   A table showing the site's proposed land use allocations and the
percent of total site area allocated to each.
         d.   Conceptual drawings and elevations of major architectural and
landscaping features.
      2.   Zoning And Planning Board Recommendations: After review, the Zoning
and Planning Board shall furnish the applicant with written comments regarding
the concept plan review, including recommendations to assist the applicant in
preparing the preliminary plan.
   B.   Preliminary Plan Review: Upon completion of the concept plan review, an
application for preliminary plan approval may be filed with the City Clerk.
      1.   Preliminary Plan Submittal Requirements:
         a.   The preliminary plan shall include sufficient information to
permit review, by the Zoning and Planning Board and the City Council, of the
land use relationships and densities, and the type, size and location of the
buildings and other principal features of the planned unit development. Where
applicable, the following additional information shall be provided:
            (1)   A statement of proposed ownership of public and private open
spaces.
            (2)   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the planned unit development, or stages of the same, can be
expected to begin and be completed.
            (3)   Dimensions and square footages of public and private streets,
parking lots, common open areas, and other features required by this Title.
            (4)   An architectural and landscaping plan showing character and
materials of each feature.
            (5)   A drawing showing significant views and vistas from the
proposed site, and those from adjacent properties that may be blocked or
impaired by the proposed planned unit development.
            (6)   Map and description of designated or potential historic
resources (buildings, structures, sites or objects) on or adjacent to the site.
            (7)   Grading and drainage plan indicating the proposed outlet for
storm drainage from the property.
            (8)   Preliminary subdivision plat if the project requires
platting.
            (9)   The location of proposed vehicular and pedestrian access
points to the proposed development.
            (10)   List of off-site improvements, if any, projected completion
dates, and indicator of the party responsible for completion.
            (11)   Additional studies or plans as deemed necessary by the
Zoning and Planning Board or City Council for adequate review of the proposed
planned unit development.
         b.   The preliminary plan application shall be prepared to
professional standards such that the required review may be carried out
effectively.
      2.   Preliminary Plan Review And Approval Procedures: The Zoning and
Planning Board and City Council shall hold public hearings on the preliminary
plan. Notice of public hearings shall be made in accordance with Chapter 19 of
this Title.
      3.   Preliminary Plan Review Criteria: In reviewing applications for
preliminary approval of a planned unit development, the criteria outlined in
Section
11-11-5 of this Chapter shall be applied.
      4.   Zoning And Planning Board Recommendation: After conducting a public
hearing, the Zoning and Planning Board shall recommend to the City Council the
approval, conditional approval, or denial of the preliminary plan. Such
recommendation shall include the findings of the Board to support the
recommendation. If no recommendation is made by the Zoning and Planning Board,
a record of the public hearing shall be forwarded to the City Council.
      5.   Preliminary Plan Approval By City Council: After review by the
Zoning and Planning Board, the City Council shall hold a public hearing and may
approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed planned unit development.
Preliminary plan approval shall not guarantee approval of the final plan but
shall be deemed an approval of the general layout, densities, and character of
the proposed development as a guide to preparation of the final plan.
      6.   Phased Planned Unit Developments: An applicant for a planned unit
development intended to be constructed in phases must submit either a
preliminary plan for all phases or a preliminary plan for the first phase and
development guidelines for all subsequent phases. Subsequent phases shall be
presented for preliminary and final plan review when the applicant is ready to
proceed.
      7.   Joint Preliminary And Final Plan Review And Approval: For good cause
shown and unique circumstances, or for proposals containing only one principal
use, the chairperson of the Zoning and Planning Board may permit a final plan
application to be concurrent with the preliminary plan application.
   C.   Final Plan Review: Upon approval or conditional approval of a
preliminary plan by the City Council, an application for final approval may be
submitted to the Zoning and Planning Board. The final plan must be in
compliance with the approved preliminary plan or development guidelines.
      1.   Final Plan Submittal Requirements: The final plan submittal shall
meet the requirements for preliminary plan submittal under subsection B of this
Section. In addition, the following submittals are required for final plan
review:
         a.   Final site plan showing land use data, lot lines, easements, and
public rights of way.
         b.   Final landscape and open space plan, with indication of
maintenance program and guarantee.
         c.   Final subdivision plat.
         d.   Final utility plans.
      2.   Zoning And Planning Board Recommendation: The Zoning and Planning
Board shall review the final plan and shall determine whether the final plan
meets the criteria of subsection C4 of this Section. If the determination is in
the affirmative, the Board shall recommend to the City Council the approval,
approval with additional conditions, or denial for cause of the final plan of
the planned unit development. Such recommendation shall include the findings of
the Board to support the recommendation.
      3.   Final Plan Approval By City Council: After review by the Zoning and
Planning Board, the City Council may approve, conditionally approve, or deny
for cause, the final plan of the proposed planned unit development.
      4.   Final Plan Review Criteria: In order to be approved, the final plan
must meet the following criteria:
         a.   The final plan is in compliance with the approved preliminary
plan.
         b.   All conditions imposed by the City Council in its preliminary
plan approval have been met.
         c.   The final plan does not change the general use or character of
the development.
         d.   The final plan does not decrease the open space indicated on the
preliminary plan by more than five percent (5%).
      5.   Amendments To Final Plan: Zoning permits and other development
approvals shall be issued on the basis of the approved final plan and any
conditions of approval. The City shall not issue permits for improvements that
are not indicated on the approved final plan, except for the following:
         a.   Minor Changes:
            (1)   Minor changes to a planned unit development may be approved
in writing by the City Council. Such changes may be authorized without
additional public hearings, at the discretion of the City Council. Approval of
minor changes may be delegated to the Zoning and Planning Board or City Planner
at the discretion of the City Council.
            (2)   Minor changes shall not affect the location, placement, shape
or arrangement of buildings, lots or blocks; a change of uses; the allocation
of reserved open space; increases in density or intensity of the project or, in
general, the overall design or intent of the project.
         b.   Major Changes: Major changes to a planned unit development shall
be approved, if at all, only by the City Council and must follow the same
review and public hearing process as required for preliminary plan approval.
"Major changes" shall be defined as:
            (1)   A change in the architectural or site character of the
development.
            (2)   An increase of greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
number of dwelling units.
            (3)   An increase of greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
gross leasable floor area of buildings.
            (4)   A reduction by greater than two percent (2%) in the approved
open space.
            (5)   A change in the location or placement of buildings.
            (6)   An increase in problems of traffic circulation and public
utilities.
            (7)   Any change in the development that would normally cause the
project to be disqualified under the applicable review criteria of Section
11-11-5 of this Chapter.
   D.   Compliance With Review Criteria: The City Council shall determine
compliance to the review criteria of Section
11-11-5 of this Chapter based upon the evidence presented during evaluation of
the proposed planned unit development. Should the applicant fail to comply with
any terms, conditions or limitations contained in the approved documents, the
City Council may take necessary enforcement measures or other legal action
deemed appropriate by the City Council. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
11-11-4: DURATION OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Duration Of Preliminary Plan Approval: Within three (3) years after the
approval of a preliminary plan, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a
final plan and request final plan approval for all or part of the development.
Said request must meet the requirements of subsection
11-11-3C of this Chapter. If no final plan is filed within this time limit, the
right to proceed under the preliminary plan shall expire.
   B.   Duration Of Final Plan Approval: Within two (2) years after the
approval of a final plan, the applicant must undertake and substantially
complete the planned unit development or portion thereof granted final
approval. For the purposes of this Chapter, a development is substantially
complete once all engineering improvements (water, sewer, streets, curbs and
gutters, street lights, and fire hydrants) are installed and completed in
accordance with City rules and regulations. Failure to substantially complete
the development within the two (2) year period shall cause a forfeiture of the
right to proceed under the final plan and shall require resubmittal of all
materials and reapproval of the same.
   C.   Extension Of Approval: Upon petition by the applicant and for good
cause, the Zoning and Planning Board may extend the period for complying with
the requirements of subsection A or B of this Section for successive six (6)
month periods. A request for a six (6) month extension of approval must be
submitted in writing by the applicant to the City Clerk at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date. Failure to do so within the specified time
period shall cause forfeiture of the right to extension of preliminary or final
approval. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
11-11-5: REVIEW CRITERIA:
All proposed planned unit developments shall be reviewed against the criteria
listed in this Section. The applicant shall clearly demonstrate how the planned
unit development specifically addresses each applicable criterion. In
evaluating a planned unit development proposal, the Zoning and Planning Board
or City Council may: a) determine that certain criteria are not applicable to a
particular proposal and therefore do not apply to that proposal, and b)
establish other reasonable review criteria and design standards, guidelines and
policies for the purpose of implementing and interpreting the provisions of
this Section.
   A.   Assure Accordance With City Plans And Policies: The proposed
development must be in accordance with the City's Master Plan and other adopted
plans and policies of the City, including the purpose and application of
planned unit developments as set forth in Sections
11-11-1 and
11-11-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Mitigate Effects On The Site And Surrounding Properties: The proposed
development should include adequate measures to mitigate adverse environmental
effects, including noise and glare, on the site and on surrounding properties.
If the project includes dwelling units or is adjacent to a residential zoning
district, architectural and landscape design features should be incorporated to
mitigate the impacts of conflicting land uses.
   C.   Mitigate Effects On Existing And Anticipated Traffic And Parking: The
proposed development should include adequate measures to integrate the project
into the traffic circulation plan of the City and to mitigate the adverse
effects of generated traffic and parking on surrounding properties. Where
feasible, it should incorporate and support nonautomobile transportation modes,
such as pedestrian and bicycle paths.
   D.   Conform To Engineering Standards: The proposed development should
comply with all City engineering standards and specifications, including those
for water supply, sanitary sewers, utilities and streets, and pedestrian and
vehicular ingress and egress, including accessibility for persons with
disabilities.
   E.   Conserve Natural Resources: The proposed site design should preserve
agricultural land where possible, and should create usable open space for
recreational or other appropriate uses by residents and employees, and by the
public where appropriate. Existing natural vegetation in unbuilt areas should
be preserved or suitably replaced if disturbed, in harmony with the existing
character of the City.
   F.   Harmonize With City's Architectural Character: The architectural
character of buildings on the site should be harmonious with the architectural
character and traditions of the City.
   G.   Preserve Historic Resources: If the site includes any designated or
potentially significant historic buildings, structures, sites or objects,
measures should be taken to preserve them and incorporate them into the
development, where such measures will not cause undue hardship.
   H.   Respect Historical Identity: The proposed development should be
harmonious with and integrated into the historical identity of the City, as in
building orientation, street and alley grid, sidewalk patterns and other
features of the City's public spaces. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
11-11-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPACT MITIGATION:
   A.   When two (2) adjacent parcels are developed simultaneously, the
responsibility for mitigating conflicts is upon the more intense use.
   B.   When a use is the first to develop on two (2) adjacent vacant parcels,
the first use shall provide the necessary buffer to any reasonable future use
as determined by the City Council.
   C.   When a development is proposed adjacent to an existing developed
parcel, the responsibility for mitigating conflicts with and adverse impacts on
the developed parcel is upon the proposed use. (Ord. 246, 7-8-1997)
CHAPTER 12
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Conditional Use Requirements
11-12-3: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
11-12-4: Conditional Approval
11-12-5: Conditional Uses
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of conditional use permits is to provide for specific uses, other
than those specifically permitted in each district, which may be appropriate in
the district under certain safeguards or conditions. Conditional uses may also
be used in Transitional Districts as specified in chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-12-2: CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS:
No structure or land may be used for any purpose in any district where such use
is not a permitted use, unless such use is listed as a conditional use and
approval for that use is obtained through the proper procedure. Conditional use
permits shall be granted only by the City Council (with a recommendation from
the Zoning and Planning Board) when their findings are that:
   A.   The use conforms to the objectives of the Master Plan and the intent of
this title; and
   B.   Such use will not adversely affect nearby properties or their
occupants; and
   C.   Such use meets density, coverage, yard, height, and all other
regulations of the district in which it is to be located, unless otherwise
provided for in this title; and
   D.   Public hearings have been held, after the required legal notices have
been given and the public has been given a chance to be heard upon the matter.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-12-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Fees: All applications for conditional use permits shall be
filed in the City office accompanied with a filing fee in such amount as set
forth in subsection
11-20-2C of this title. (2000 Code)
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   General information required for all conditional use applications:
         a.   Name of the project.
         b.   Location of the project by street address.
         c.   Name and mailing address of the project developer and owner of
the property.
         d.   Name, mailing address, and email address of the engineer/
architect, landscape architect and/or planner, if applicable (determined by
zoning official).
         e.   Location map, including area within one-half (1/2) mile of the
project site drawn at 1" = 100' scale with north arrow indicator, streets
identified and zoning classification within two hundred feet (200') of the
project.
      2.   Submittal requirements for day care and assisted living facilities
proposed for existing buildings:
         a.   A site plan is required drawn at 1" = 20' scale minimum with the
following information:
            (1)   Boundary line of property with dimensions.
            (2)   Adjacent streets and street right-of-way, sidewalks within
the right-of-way and alley right-of-ways, and all applicable easements.
            (3)   Sidewalks, driveways, and parking spaces intended to serve
the project with all dimensions indicated.
            (4)   Location of existing building and all entrances and exits.
            (5)   Provisions for handicapped accessibility, including but not
limited to wheelchair ramps and parking spaces for Americans With Disabilities
Act (ADA) compliance.
            (6)   Location of all fences.
            (7)   Location and size of all exterior signs.
         b.   Number of employee and nonemployee parking spaces, existing and
proposed, and total square footage of each.
         c.   Site statistics including site square footage, front, side and
rear yard setbacks, and percentage of site coverage (building and parking).
         d.   A listing of all required and applicable permits and status of
applications.
         e.   If an addition to the existing building or other structures are
proposed the following additional information is required:
            (1)   Elevations of all exterior walls of the building(s) or
structure(s) drawn at 1" = 10' scale.
            (2)   Height above mean sea level of the elevation of the lowest
floor and location of the outfall when the building addition or structure is
proposed to be located in a floodway or floodplain area.
         f.   Additional information as required by the zoning official.
      3.   Submittal requirements for home occupations:
         a.   A site plan is required drawn at 1" = 20' scale with the
following information:
            (1)   Boundary line of property with dimensions.
            (2)   Adjacent streets and street right-of-way, sidewalks within
the right-of-way and alley right-of-ways, and all applicable easements.
            (3)   Sidewalks, driveways, and parking spaces intended to serve
the project with all dimensions indicated.
            (4)   Location of existing building and all entrances and exits.
            (5)   Location and size of all exterior signs.
         b.   Number of employee and nonemployee parking spaces, existing and
proposed, and total square footage of each.
         c.   Days of week and hours of operation.
         d.   A listing of all required and applicable permits and status of
applications.
         e.   If an addition to the existing building or other structures are
proposed the following additional information is required:
            (1)   Site plan drawn at 1" = 20' scale with all site statistics
including site square footage, front, side and rear yard setbacks and
percentage of site coverage (building and parking).
            (2)   Elevations of all exterior walls of the building(s) or
structure(s) drawn at 1" = 10' scale.
            (3)   Height above mean sea level of the elevation of the lowest
floor and location of the outfall when the building addition or structure is
proposed to be located in a floodway or floodplain area.
         f.   Additional information as required by the zoning official.
      4.   Submittal requirements for multi-family dwellings:
         a.   A site plan is required drawn at 1" = 20' scale with the
following information:
            (1)   Boundary line of property with dimensions.
            (2)   Topographic contours at a minimum interval of one foot (1').
            (3)   Adjacent streets and street right-of-way, sidewalks within
the right-of-way and alley right-of-ways to a distance of one hundred fifty
feet (150'), and all applicable easements.
            (4)   Sidewalks, driveways, and parking spaces intended to serve
the project with all dimensions indicated.
            (5)   Traffic flow on site.
            (6)   Traffic flow off site.
            (7)   Location of any existing buildings and all entrances and
exits.
            (8)   Parking facilities.
            (9)   Exterior refuse collection areas.
            (10)   Surface water holding ponds.
            (11)   Grading and drainage plan.
            (12)   Utilities and utility rights-of-way or easements for
electric service, natural gas, telephone, cable TV, water and sewer.
            (13)   Provisions for handicapped accessibility, including but not
limited to wheelchair ramps and parking spaces for Americans With Disabilities
Act (ADA) compliance.
            (14)   Location and type of all exterior lighting.
            (15)   Location of all fences.
            (16)   Location and size of all exterior signs.
         b.   A detailed landscaping plan drawn at 1" = 10' scale.
         c.   Site statistics including site square footage, front, side and
rear yard setbacks, and percentage of site coverage (building and parking).
         d.   For the proposed building(s) and other structures the following
information is required:
            (1)   Elevations of all exterior walls of the building(s) or
structure(s) drawn at 1" = 10' scale.
            (2)   Two (2) perspectives showing principal views of the project
and landscaping at the time of planting.
            (3)   Height above mean sea level of the elevation of the lowest
floor and location of the outfall when the building addition or structure is
proposed to be located in a floodway or floodplain area.
         e.   Additional information as required by the zoning official. (Ord.
379-2017, 1-23-2018)
   C.   Notice Of Public Hearing:
      1.   The zoning official shall give public notice of a public hearing on
the application to be held before the Zoning and Planning Board. Said notice
shall contain pertinent information on said application and be published at
least once in a newspaper having general circulation in the City. A time limit
for the public notice shall be not more than thirty (30) days nor less than ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing.
      2.   Said notice of public hearing shall also be made available to all
newspapers, radio, and television stations serving the Three Forks area for use
as a public service announcement.
      3.   Such notice shall be sent by mail, not more than thirty (30) days
nor less than ten (10) days, to the applicant and owners of record (or their
legal representative) of the subject property as well as to the owners of
record of all parcels within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the perimeter of
the subject property. The number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets,
alleys, and other public ways, shall be excluded in determining the one hundred
fifty foot (150') requirements. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   D.   Zoning And Planning Board Hearing: The hearing on the application shall
then be held before the Zoning and Planning Board at the set time to gather
needed facts from all interested parties. The Zoning and Planning Board may
continue such hearing, if need be, to take additional information.
   E.   Board Recommendation To Council: The Zoning and Planning Board shall
cause to be sent to the City Council their recommendation on the application
with any and all pertinent facts. The applicant will also be given a copy of
the Zoning and Planning Board's recommendation to the City Council at least ten
(10) days prior to the City Council hearing.
   F.   Council Hearing: Upon receipt of the Zoning and Planning Board's
recommendation, the City Council shall, at the appointed time and place, hold a
public hearing on said application at which the Zoning and Planning Board's
recommendation shall be read and additional testimony may be taken from
interested parties. (Notice for said hearing shall follow procedures as
previously set forth.) The City Council shall then either approve or deny the
application. If the application is denied, reasons for denial should be given.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-12-4: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
The City Council may make the granting of a conditional use permit subject to
reasonable limitations or conditions as it may deem necessary to enhance the
appearance of the property, to reduce any adverse effects on nearby property or
residences, to preserve the character of the area or to make it more acceptable
in other ways. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-12-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses are listed in conjunction with zoning district regulations.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 13
OFF-STREET PARKING
SECTION:
11-13-1: Purpose
11-13-2: Design Standards
11-13-3: Combined Occupancies
11-13-4: Joint Use
11-13-5: Spaces Required
11-13-6: Figure One
11-13-7: Parking Factor Table
11-13-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of this Chapter is to reduce traffic congestion and the need for
parking on public streets and hazards caused thereby, and to provide off-street
parking adequate for each type of development in terms of both quantity and
location. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-13-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Off-street parking required for uses herein specified shall be for use only by
vehicles of employees, customers, and residents of the activity served.
   A.   Location: Off-street parking as required by this Title shall be located
as specified herein. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
      1.   Single-family dwellings: on the same lot with the dwelling they are
required to serve.
      2.   Multi-family dwellings: on the same lot with the dwellings they are
required to serve.
      3.   Hospitals, sanitariums, apartments, rooming and boarding houses,
fraternity and sorority houses: not more than one hundred feet (100').
      4.   Commercial and industrial zones: within three hundred feet (300') of
the use they are required to serve.
Where a distance is specified, such distance shall be measured by a straight
line from the nearest point of the building such parking area is required to
serve. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
Such off-site parking areas must be accessible by a public street or alley and
shall be owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the building being served by
such parking and such parking lot shall have a recorded land covenant requiring
such land be maintained as a parking lot so long as the building and/or use
served is in operation or another suitable parking area is established to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Official. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   B.   Size: An off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in
width and eighteen feet (18') in length exclusive of access drivers, yards, or
ramps. Such spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7').
Where more than three (3) off-street parking spaces are required, the parking
area shall be arranged according to one of the four (4) designs outlined in
Figure One, Section
11-13-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
   C.   Plans: A plan of the proposed off-street parking facility shall be
submitted along with the application for the zoning permit for the building the
off-street parking is required to serve. Said plan shall clearly indicate curb
cuts, lighting, landscaping, construction details, fencing and other features
which may be required by the Zoning Official. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   D.   Construction: All permanent off-street parking spaces and access areas
thereto shall be paved, (temporary exemptions for access approaches may be
granted based on public street paving schedules established by the City),
except parking areas for single-family dwellings which may be surfaced with
coarse gravel (3/4" – 11/2"). All off-street parking areas shall be designed
and constructed to allow proper drainage. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
   E.   Screening: Any parking area built to serve any commercial or industrial
use with ten (10) or more parking spaces shall be effectively screened by a
decorative wall or landscaping from adjacent property zoned residential.
Any use having more than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of
required permanent parking shall have two percent (2%) of the gross parking
area landscaped with suitable trees and/or shrubs having a low profile. Such
landscaping shall be in place before occupancy of the building or use being
served.
If, due to climatic conditions, the parking area cannot be improved as
prescribed, a written request for an extension of time shall be submitted to
the zoning official. Said extension may then be granted for a time period not
to exceed nine (9) months. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   F.   Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate a parking area shall be arranged
in such a manner that it will not be a hazard to passing motorists or
constitute a nuisance of any kind. Where said parking area is within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any property classified as residential by this
title, and where the parking area is directly visible by the residents within
one hundred fifty feet (150'), illuminating devices shall be shaded in a manner
that would direct the light away from the residential property. (Ord. 203, 12-
9-1983)
11-13-3: COMBINED OCCUPANCIES:
Where two (2) or more uses are combined in one development, the total parking
spaces shall be the sum total of the spaces required for each individual use.
Off street parking for one use shall not be considered for joint use as
hereinafter specified. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-13-4: JOINT USE:
   A.   Authorization: The city council may authorize the joint use of off
street parking facilities for the following uses or activities under the
conditions specified:
      1.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the required off street parking for
primarily "nighttime" uses such as theaters, bowling alleys, bars, supper clubs
may be supplied by the parking requirement for primarily "daytime" uses such as
banks, offices, retail and personal service establishments.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section may be reversed so that parking for
"daytime" uses may be used for "nighttime" activities.
      3.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking facilities required by this
section for churches or auditoriums may be supplied by the parking facilities
provided for uses primarily of a daytime nature.
   B.   Application For Joint Use: Where joint use is desired, an application
shall be made to the city council. Said application shall contain proof that
there will be no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the
two (2) buildings or uses for which the joint use is proposed; that all other
conditions within this section are met; and legal documents executed by the
parties involved in the joint use guaranteeing use by both parties. Said legal
document shall be approved by the city attorney and recorded with the county
clerk and recorder. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-13-5: SPACES REQUIRED:
The following number of off street parking spaces per use are required in all
districts:
                           The number derived by multiplying the factor in the
                           parking factor table in section
All commercial uses        11-13-7 of this chapter, by the total square footage
                           in thousands in the building and shall be figured to
                           the nearest single place decimal:
                          A. Example:
                          1. Bank building: 2,250 square feet
                          (Table factor is 4.5)
                          2.2 (square feet in thousands) times 4.5 (table
                           factor) = 9.9 or 10 parking spaces
                          2. Medical office building: 3,125 square feet
                          (Table factor is 3.8)
                          3.1 (square feet in thousands) times 3.8 (table
                           factor) = 11.78 or 12 parking spaces
                           1 space per each 2 employees or combined employment
                           of the largest successive shift or a factor of 1.4
All industrial uses        times the square footage of the building in
                           thousands (figured as shown in all commercial uses
                           example of this section) whichever is greater.
Apartments                 11/2 spaces per unit
Assisted living facilities 1 space for every 2 residents
Bed and breakfast homes    1 space per guest room plus 2 spaces for owner
Daycare facilities         1 space per 200 square feet of floor area
Hotels and motels          1 space per each room for rent
Rooming and boarding       2 per dwelling unit plus 1 per rooming unit
houses
Single- and multi-family   2 spaces per unit (1 space as required may be within
                           the driveway area)
 
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 267, 2-11-2003)
11-13-6: FIGURE ONE:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3534ffbd0cce1020e68c68b3ea87b3386576b635/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1208.png]
 
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-13-7: PARKING FACTOR TABLE:
 
   PARKING FACTOR TABLE
Use                                                  Factor
Auto and equipment sales                            1.0
Auto service, tire service, bodyshops and plumbing- 4.0
heating and electrical shops
Bowling alley and similar entertainment enterprises 6.5
Central business - #1 - grocery and drugstores,     3.6
sporting goods, hardware and variety stores
Central business - #2 - motor supply, paint stores, 1.5
bakeries, upholstery and mail-order houses
Churches (chapel area)                              50.0
Department and clothing stores                      2.5
Drive-ins                                           20.0
Furniture stores                                    1.0
Medical offices, clinics and hospitals              3.8
Offices, banks, utility companies, barbershops and  4.5
beauty shops
Public eating and/or drinking establishments        8.0
Theaters (seating area) excluding outdoor           35.0
 
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 14
OFF-STREET LOADING
SECTION:
11-14-1: Purpose
11-14-2: Requirements For Design
11-14-3: Off-Street Loading Berth Requirements
11-14-1: PURPOSE:
To avoid the hazards to traffic and to pedestrians and the congestion of
streets, it is required that spaces in the form of off-street loading areas be
provided on the same lot as the building to be served by deliveries of goods,
and that such spaces be adequate in size and number to provide the service
needed without affecting the other adjacent properties. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-14-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR DESIGN:
   A.   Off-street loading berths shall be provided on the same lot as the use
it serves and shall not occupy the front yard of the lot.
   B.   No loading berth shall be located closer to a residential zoned lot
than fifty feet (50') unless enclosed by a wall or solid fence, or combination
thereof, not less than six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Each loading berth shall be designed with access to a street or alley
in a manner that does not permit interference with traffic movement.
   D.   Each required loading berth shall be at least ten feet by twenty five
feet (10' x 25') in size, and eighteen feet (18') in height.
   E.   Each loading berth shall be improved with a compacted macadam, or
better, surface material.
   F.   Spaces for off-street loading berths shall not be considered as
satisfying requirements for required off-street parking space, nor shall they
be used for vehicle repairs or servicing. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-14-3: OFF-STREET LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off-street loading berths shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements that follow. If more than one use is combined in one building or
unit development, the total berths that would be required for all such uses
shall be provided, the final determination of the number of berths required to
be made by the Zoning Official. Where uses are not specifically mentioned in
this Chapter, the requirements for off-street loading berths shall be as
required by the Zoning Official, using as a guide the most similar use listed
below.
   B.   Downtown buildings without off-street loading berths may be changed
from one permitted use to another permitted use without strict compliance of
this Chapter if determined by the Zoning Official that required berths may be
unfeasible. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   LOADING BERTHS REQUIRED
Use                      Gross Floor Area        Number Of
                         Square Feet             Berths Required
Multiple dwellings with  ---                     1
over 16 units
                         Over 20,000             1
Schools, auditoriums,    50,000 – 149,999      1
meeting halls            150,000 – 300,000     2
                         Each additional 300,000 1
Hospitals, clinics, jail 10,000 - 100,000        1
                         Each additional 250,000 1
Department store and     7,000 – 13,999        1
other retail shops,      14,000 – 39,999       2
restaurants, funeral     40,000 – 80,000       3
homes                    Each additional 50,000  1
Hotel or office          25,000 – 39,999       1
building                 40,000 – 100,000      2
                         Each additional 100,000 1
Industrial plant,        10,000 – 39,999       1
manufacturing or         40,000 – 64,999       2
wholesale establish-     65,000 – 100,000      3
ment                     Each additional 50,000  1
 
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 15
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
11-15-1: Purpose
11-15-2: Lots Of Record
11-15-3: Uses Of Land
11-15-4: Structures
11-15-5: Uses Of Structures
11-15-6: Expansions In Business Zones
11-15-7: Repairs And Maintenance
11-15-8: Conditional Uses
11-15-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconformities: Within the districts established by
this Title or amendments thereto there exist lots, structures, uses of land and
structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this Title was
adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
under terms of this Title or future amendment. It is the intent of this Title
to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not
encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this Title that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
   B.   Buildings Under Construction: Nonconforming uses are declared by this
Title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the district involved. However,
to avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment hereof and which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently. Actual "construction" is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that
work shall be carried on diligently. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-2: LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   Single Lot Of Record: In any district, notwithstanding other
limitations imposed by this Title, structures permitted in said district may be
erected on any single lot of record on the effective date hereof. Such lot must
be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots of the
same ownership. A lot of record that does not meet lot area or lot width
requirements must still meet other requirements of the district.
   B.   Undivided Parcels: If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and
portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at
the time of adoption or amendment of this Title, and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
Title. Where lots are larger than required by this Chapter, said lots may be
subdivided into smaller lots except no parcel may be divided so as to create a
lot smaller in lot width or lot area than required by this Title. (Ord. 203,
12-9-1983)
11-15-3: USES OF LAND:
Where at the time of passage of this Title lawful use of land exists which
would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Title, the use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
   A.   Enlarge Or Increase: No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at
the effective date of adoption or amendment hereof.
   B.   Moving: No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof.
   C.   Cease To Exist: If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any
reason for a period of more than ninety (90) days, any subsequent use of such
land shall conform to the regulations specified by this Title for the district
in which such land is located.
   D.   Additional Structure: No additional nonconforming structure in
connection with the requirements of this Title shall be erected in connection
with such nonconforming uses of land. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-4: STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
hereof that could not be built under the terms of this Title by reason of
restriction on lot area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot,
or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Enlarge Or Increase: No such nonconforming structure may be altered or
enlarged in any way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   Destruction: Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming
portion of a structure be destroyed by any means to the extent of more than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
Title.
   C.   Moving: Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-5: USES OF STRUCTURES:
If lawful use of a structure, or of structures and premises, exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this Title, the lawful use may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful, provided that:
   A.   Enlarging: No existing structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall
be enlarged, extended, constructed, or structurally altered, unless the use is
changed to a permitted use.
   B.   Extending: Any nonconforming use may be extended to any other part of a
building designed for such use, but no such use may be extended in any way to
occupy land outside the building.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit: Nonconforming use of buildings, structures, or
premises may be changed to another nonconforming use; provided, that a
conditional use permit is obtained from the City Council. In determining
whether or not to grant the conditional use permit, the City Council, after
recommendation from the Zoning and Planning Board, shall determine that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than
the nonconforming use.
   D.   Use Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or structure and land,
in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located
and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   E.   Cease To Exist: Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure or a
premises ceases for ninety (90) days, the structure or premises shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located. The term "ceases" as used in this subsection shall mean
that the activity in question has not been in operation for a period of ninety
(90) days.
   F.   Removal Of Structure: Where nonconforming use status applies to both
structure and land, the removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate
the nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-6: EXPANSIONS IN BUSINESS ZONES:
   A.   Permit Required; Conditions: Where a nonconforming use and/or structure
as herein defined exists in a business district zone, said nonconforming use
and/or structure may be expanded only by issuance of a permit, provided that:
      1.   The use is for single-family residential purposes as defined
elsewhere in this Title; and
      2.   The existing character of the area for which expansion is requested
is primarily of a residential character or nature; and
      3.   The square footage of the requested expansion is not more than fifty
percent (50%) of the total square footage of the existing nonconforming use or
structure. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
   B.   Procedure For Obtaining Permit: Procedure for obtaining permit for
expansion of nonconforming uses and/or structures:
      1.   Investigation Of Facts: Immediately upon receipt of said application
for a permit for expansion of a nonconforming use and/or structure, said Zoning
Official will immediately deliver said application to the Zoning and Planning
Director in and for the City. Said Zoning and Planning Director will
immediately cause an investigation of the facts bearing on the application and
will provide the necessary information to assure that the action on such
application is consistent with the intent and purpose of this Title. (Ord. 253-
99, 10-13-1998)
      2.   Notice Of Public Hearing: A hearing on the application shall then be
held before the Zoning and Planning Board at the time set to gather needed
facts from all interested parties. Said hearing shall be held pursuant to
notice to be published on one occasion in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City, and further notice will be sent to each landowner adjoining said
property for which a permit is requested including all property within a one
block radius of the property for which said permit is requested. The Zoning and
Planning Board may continue such hearing, if need be, to take additional
information.
      3.   Board Recommendations: The Zoning and Planning Board shall cause to
be sent to the City Council their recommendation on application with any and
all pertinent facts. The applicant will also be given a copy of the Zoning and
Planning Board's recommendation to the City Council at least ten (10) days
prior to the scheduled hearing to be conducted before the City Council.
      4.   Council Hearing: Upon receipt of the Zoning and Planning Board's
recommendation, the City Council shall, after legal notice of not less than ten
(10) days, hold a public hearing on said application at which the Zoning and
Planning Board's recommendation shall be read and additional testimony may be
taken from interested parties. At the conclusion of said public hearing, the
City Council shall do one of the following:
         a.   Grant a permit for said expansion;
         b.   Deny said permit;
         c.   Grant a said permit with any conditions deemed necessary by the
City Council;
         d.   Refer said matter back to the Zoning and Planning Board with
instruction for further investigation and recommendation. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure or portion of the structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs and fixtures, wiring,
plumbing, or repair, or replacement of nonbearing walls, to an extent not
exceeding ten percent (10%) of the replacement value of the building in any one
year; provided, that such work does not increase the cubic content of the
building. Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-15-8: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses provided for in this Title shall not be deemed a nonconforming
use in the district in which it is permitted. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 16
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose
11-16-2: Definitions
11-16-3: Permitted Uses
11-16-4: Other Laws
11-16-5: Administrative Provisions
11-16-6: Design Standards
11-16-7: Approval
11-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for mobile home park development at
appropriate locations in Three Forks and to establish development standards in
order to integrate mobile homes into an area without adversely affecting
surrounding properties and to provide safeguards. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-16-2: DEFINITIONS 1 :
   DENSITY: The number of mobile home units per acre.
   MOBILE HOME: A factory-assembled structure or structures (i.e., double
wide); with dimensions of ten feet (10') wide by thirty five feet (35') long or
greater, equipped with the necessary service connections and made so as to be
readily moveable as a unit or units on its (their) own running gear and
designed to be used as a single dwelling unit(s) without a permanent
foundation.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures for
the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Tract of land that has been planned and improved for the
placement of two (2) or more mobile homes for residential use (lots for rent or
lease).
   MOBILE HOME STAND: That area of a mobile home lot which has been reserved
for the placement of a mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions.
   RECREATION AREA: An area including open space and playgrounds and buildings
and apparatus designed for recreational activities set aside for the use of the
mobile home park residents.
   SITE: The entire gross area of the mobile home park. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  11-2-2 of this Title.
11-16-3: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental thereto. However, no part
of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such uses that
are required for direct servicing and well-being of park residents and for
management and maintenance of the park. Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed
as prohibiting the sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and
connected to the pertinent utilities.
Mobile homes, excluding commercial sales of mobile homes.
Signs as follows:
   A.   One identification sign on each major street frontage, approved in
conjunction with the final plan approval of the mobile home park. In no case
shall the sign be greater than forty (40) square feet in surface area nor have
any moving parts and/or flashing lights nor stand higher than fifteen feet
(15') from the ground to top of the sign.
   B.   Such sign shall be no closer to a public right-of-way line than twenty
feet (20'). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-16-4: OTHER LAWS:
The regulations in this District shall not be interpreted so as to supersede or
amend any State or Federal regulations pertaining to mobile home park
development. These regulations are intended to be supplemental to other
established mobile home park regulations and their amendments. When the
standards and regulations in this District are more restrictive than other
established standards and regulations, the more restrictive shall be used.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-16-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter, or extend any mobile home park unless he holds necessary valid permits
issued by the Division of Environmental Sanitation, State Department of Health
and the Three Forks Zoning Official. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   B.   Local Fees:
      1.   Mobile home parks must have a City license under which to operate,
if located within the City limits.
      2.   Local fees for individual mobile home structures will be assessed.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-16-6: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Site: The mobile home park site shall not be exposed to smoke, dust,
noise, odors, or other adverse influences which might create damage to property
or bring harm to occupants of the park.
   B.   Site Size And Park Density: Minimum size for a mobile home park shall
be two (2) acres with a minimum of twelve (12) lots. Average park density shall
not exceed nine (9) mobile home units per acre.
   C.   Lot Size: Minimum lot area shall be four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet with no less than thirty feet (30') of lot width where both
Municipally approved water and sewer systems are available.
   D.   Site Coverage: Maximum mobile home lot coverage shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%). Coverage shall mean any manmade apparatus.
   E.   Setbacks:
      1.   All mobile homes and accessory buildings shall be set back not less
than ten feet (10') from all property lines except front or street property
lines. Front and street setbacks shall be the same as the zoning district in
which the mobile home park is to be located.
      2.   Mobile home or its attached structures, such as carports or awnings,
may be located within twenty feet (20') of any other mobile home or
attachments.
      3.   No detached structure such as a storage shed, may be located within
five feet (5') of any mobile home or its attached structures. (Ord. 203, 12-9-
1983)
   F.   Mobile Home Stand: Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a well-
drained stand with a firm base, approved by the City Zoning Official, for the
placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions. Each stand
must be at least twelve feet by fifty feet (12' x 50') for single-wide units
and twenty four feet by fifty feet (24' x 50') for double-wide units. (Ord.
253-99, 10-13-1998)
   G.   Height: Maximum height for any structures within a mobile home park
shall be that of the district in which the park is to be located.
   H.   Streets:
      1.   All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe and convenient
vehicular access from abutting public streets and throughout the mobile home
park.
      2.   Street widths should be of adequate widths to accommodate any
contemplated parking and expected traffic load, but, in all cases, shall meet
the following minimum requirements:
         a.   Collector streets with guest parking, thirty six feet (36') wide,
face of curb to face of curb.
         b.   Collector streets with no parking, twenty two feet (22') wide,
face of curb to face of curb.
         c.   Minor streets with no parking, twenty feet (20') wide, face of
curb to face of curb.
         d.   All dead-end streets shall be limited to a maximum length of five
hundred feet (500') and shall be provided with a cul- de-sac at least one
hundred feet (100') in diameter.
         e.   Minimum access width to each mobile home stand shall be twelve
feet (12').
         f.   All roads and driveways shall be hard surfaced and so constructed
as to handle all anticipated peak loads, adequately drained and lighted for
safety and ease of movement of vehicles. A concrete curb and gutter shall be
placed along both sides of all roads.
   I.   Parking: Number of spaces shall be no less than two (2) spaces per lot.
Size of spaces shall be nine feet (9') in width by eighteen feet (18') in
length.
   J.   Recreation Area: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross site area
shall be reserved for park and recreation development. Such areas shall be
located centrally and be adequately landscaped with trees, grass, recreational
equipment, etc.
   K.   Utilities And Other Services:
      1.   All sanitary sewer and water facilities, including connections
provided to individual lots, shall meet the requirements of the Three Forks
utility standards and the Montana Department of Health and Environmental
Standards.
      2.   The water supply system servicing the mobile home park shall be
subject to the rules and regulations of the local fire protection authority as
well as any State and/or national standards. Fire protection systems must be
reviewed and approved by the City Fire Department. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-16-7: APPROVAL:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit Procedure: Approval of a mobile home park shall
be obtained through conditional use permit procedure as specified in Chapter 12
of this Title. Mobile home park design(s) shall be submitted outlining the
development criteria that has been set forth.
   B.   Other Standards And Safeguards: The City Council and City Zoning and
Planning Board may require other standards and safeguards (i.e., buffer
landscaping along perimeter of mobile home park) as specific locations and
circumstances dictate. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 17
TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
11-17-1: Purpose
11-17-2: Definitions
11-17-3: Permitted Uses
11-17-4: Other Laws
11-17-5: Administrative Provisions
11-17-6: Design Standards
11-17-7: Approval
11-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for travel trailer park development
at appropriate locations and to establish standards for development in order to
integrate travel trailer parks into certain areas of the community without
adversely affecting surrounding properties. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, definitions in Chapter 2 of this Title shall
apply, except for the following term:
   SITE: The entire gross area of the travel trailer park. (Ord. 203, 12-9-
1983)
11-17-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Accessory uses related to park management and occupant need and
enjoyment and according to the following schedule: management headquarters,
recreational facilities, gift and souvenir shops and other uses and structures
customarily incidental to operation of travel trailer parks.
   B.   Other uses may be allowed when approved by the City Council and in
conformity to the following limitations:
      1.   Such other uses including parking areas for such other uses occupy
not more than ten percent (10%) of the total park area.
      2.   Such use shall be restricted in use to occupants of the park or so
located that the use will not interfere with the park use.
      3.   The use is a permitted use of the district in which the park is to
be located.
   C.   Travel trailer parks may be used for: travel trailers, equivalent
facilities in or on automotive vehicles, tents, or other short-term
recreational shelter arrangements on a temporary basis only. (Ord. 203, 12-9-
1983)
11-17-4: OTHER LAWS:
If there appears to be a conflict between the regulations and standards in this
Chapter with any other local, State, or Federal regulation for travel trailer
parks, the more restrictive regulation shall be followed. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-17-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter, or extend any travel trailer park unless he holds necessary valid
permits issued by the Division of Environmental Sanitation, State Department of
Health and the City Zoning Official. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   B.   Local Fees: Travel trailer parks must have a City license under which
to operate (within City limits). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-17-6: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Any person desiring to enlarge or establish a travel trailer park shall meet or
exceed the following design standards:
   A.   Size: Minimum site size for travel trailer parks shall be two (2)
acres.
   B.   Access: All travel trailer parks shall have access to an arterial or
collector street with a right-of-way width of eighty feet (80') or more which
is a through route for tourist traffic. Entrances and exits shall be designed
for safe and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the park, and to
minimize congestion of free moving traffic on adjacent streets.
   C.   Setback: All lots for travel trailer or other temporary shelter
apparatus and all accessory buildings shall be set back at least twenty five
feet (25') from all property lines. The area created by such setback shall be
used for landscaping to screen travel trailer parks from adjoining properties
as directed by the City Council.
   D.   Height: Maximum height of any structure within a travel trailer park
shall be that of the district in which the park is to be located.
   E.   Streets: Interior street within the park shall provide for safe
convenient circulation without interference or hazard to general park
activities.
   F.   Service Areas: Service areas shall be provided in the following manner:
      1.   At least one service building containing necessary toilet and other
plumbing fixtures specified shall be provided in the park. Service building
shall be conveniently located with a radius of approximately three hundred feet
(300') to all spaces to be served. Laundry facilities shall be required in
addition to the following. If commercial laundry facilities are conveniently
located to the trailer park, the laundry facility requirement may be considered
for waiver by the City Council.
Number Of
Dependent Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other
Parking   Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women Fixtures
Spaces
1 – 15  1 1       1       1 1        1 1
16 – 30 1 2       1       1 2        1 1       At least 1
31 – 45 2 2       1       3 3        1 1       janitor sink
46 – 60 2 3       2       3 3        2 2       per service
61 – 80 3 4       2       4 4        2 2       building
81 – 1003 4       2       4 4        3 3
 
      2.   Facilities for storage and disposal of trash and garbage in a
sanitary manner shall be provided in each park.
      3.   Street and yard lights, attached to standards approved by the City,
shall be provided in sufficient number and intensity to permit safe movement of
vehicles and pedestrians at night and shall be effectively related to
buildings, trees, walks, steps, and ramps.
   G.   Parking: Parking for all uses within the travel trailer park shall be
provided in accordance with Chapter 13 of this Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-17-7: APPROVAL:
Approval of a travel trailer park shall be obtained through conditional use
permit procedure as specified in Chapter 12 of this Title. The City Council may
require other standards and safeguards as specific locations and circumstances
dictate and as provided in Chapter 12 of this Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 18
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
11-18-1: Board Established
11-18-2: Officers
11-18-3: Powers
11-18-4: Procedure
11-18-5: Hearing And Notice
11-18-6: Approval
11-18-7: Conditions Of Approval
11-18-8: Appeals From Board Decision
11-18-9: Time Decision Effective
11-18-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Authorization; Appointment: The Board of Adjustment is hereby
authorized to be established in accordance with section 76-2-321 et seq.,
Montana Code Annotated. The word "Board" when used in this Section shall be
construed to mean the Board of Adjustment. The said Board shall consist of five
(5) members appointed by the Mayor and subject to confirmation of the City
Council. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Term Of Office: Each of said members shall be appointed to hold office
for a period of three (3) years and until his successor is appointed and
qualified (with staggering terms).
   C.   Vacancies: Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor
subject to confirmation by the City Council and shall be for the unexpired term
of the retired member.
   D.   Compensation: All of the members of said Board shall serve without
compensation.
   E.   Removal; Hearing: Board members shall not be subject to removal by
either the Mayor or the City Council without cause. The members of said Board
may be removed for cause by the Mayor upon written charges and after public
hearing. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-2: OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: At the first meeting each year, the Board shall appoint
one of its members to serve as chairman and one member to serve as vice
chairman. The City Zoning Official shall be at the disposal of the Board to
receive the process applications of appeal and to give advice to said Board.
   B.   Office: The Board's office shall be that of the City and all files of
said Board shall be held therein. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 253-99, 10-
13-1998)
11-18-3: POWERS:
The Board shall set its operating rules in accordance with section 76-2-321 et
seq., Montana Code Annotated, and shall have the following powers: (Ord. 203,
12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
   A.   Hear And Decide Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement of this Chapter or of any ordinance
adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Consider Variances:
      1.   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the
terms of this Title as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing
to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Title
will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this Title shall
be observed and substantial justice done.
      2.   More specifically, the Board may, after public notice and hearing,
conditionally approve, deny, or approve any request to modify the following
requirements of this Title:
         a.   Setback requirements;
         b.   Yard requirements;
         c.   Area requirements;
         d.   Height requirements;
         e.   Parking requirements;
         f.   Loading requirements.
   C.   Reverse An Order; Vote Necessary: The concurring vote of four (4)
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements,
decisions, or determination of any administrative official, or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this Title, or to effect any variation of this Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application; Fee: Written applications for appeals or modifications
(variance) shall be filed in the office of the Zoning Official. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Title, the applicable fee shall be paid to the
City upon filing of each application for the purpose of defraying expenses
incidental to proceedings. No application will be regarded as having been filed
until such fee has been paid. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
   B.   Investigation Of Facts: The Board shall cause to be made such
investigation of facts bearing on the application as will provide necessary
information to assure that the action of each such application is consistent
with the intent and purpose of this Title. During time of appeal, all
construction shall cease and shall not commence until such time of approval by
the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-5: HEARING AND NOTICE:
There shall be a hearing for each application of appeal or modification. Said
notice shall contain pertinent information on said application and be published
at least once in a newspaper having general circulation in the City (notice
being at least 10 days prior to hearing date). Copy of notice shall be sent to
applicant as well as the owners of record of all parcels within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of the perimeter of a subject parcel and/or structure that is
under consideration. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-6: APPROVAL:
In approving applications of appeal or modifications, the Board shall designate
such lawful conditions as will secure substantial protection for the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and shall find as follows:
   A.   Such modifications will not be inconsistent with the intent and purpose
of this Title and/or any adopted Master Plan.
   B.   Strict compliance with the provisions of this Title would create
unnecessary hardship or unreasonable situation on a particular property due to
unusual or extreme topography, unusual shape of the property, or the prevalence
of similar conditions in the immediate vicinity of the property.
   C.   Such modifications will have minimal adverse effect on abutting
properties or the permitted uses thereof.
   D.   The lawful conditions stated in the approval are deemed necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, which provisions may
include:
      1.   A time period within which the proposed structures shall be erected.
      2.   Requiring landscaping and maintenance thereof.
      3.   Requiring the surfacing and marking of off-street parking and
loading areas.
      4.   Any other conditions as will make possible the development of the
City in an orderly and efficient manner and in conformity with the intent and
purpose set forth in this Section. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-7: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Any approval under this Chapter shall be subject to the terms of the conditions
designated in connection therein. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-8: APPEALS FROM BOARD DECISION:
Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, and any officer, department, board or
bureau of the Municipality, may present to a court of record a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part
specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the court within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-18-9: TIME DECISION EFFECTIVE:
The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final except as provided in
Section
11-18-8 of this Chapter, and if a zoning permit or occupancy permit is not
obtained for the subject property within six (6) months from the date of the
Board's decision, the variance shall be automatically canceled and become null
and void. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 18A
SOUTHEAST ZONING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-18A-1: Purpose
11-18A-2: Boundaries
11-18A-3: Permitting Process
11-18A-4: Permitted Uses
11-18A-5: Building Height
11-18A-6: Lot Coverage
11-18A-7: Setbacks
11-18A-8: Performance Standards, Compatibility With Adjoining Uses
11-18A-9: Compatibility Within SED
11-18A-10: Circulation
11-18A-11: Parking
11-18A-12: Pedestrian-Friendly Development
11-18A-13: Other On-Site Infrastructure
11-18A-14: Stormwater Management (SWM)
11-18A-15: Off-Site Infrastructure
11-18A-16: Neighborhood Design
11-18A-17: Design And Construction Standards
11-18A-1: PURPOSE:
The Southeast Zoning District (SED) is established to implement Three Forks'
growth policy by guiding the development of an amenable, primarily residential
neighborhood that:
   A.   Is compatible with adjoining land uses;
   B.   Uses site planning, architectural, and landscape design to achieve
compatibility within the neighborhood;
   C.   Provides on-site infrastructure and improvements in compliance with
state and local standards;
   D.   Contributes to off-site infrastructure in fair proportion to the demand
it creates;
   E.   Relies on low-impact stormwater management to the extent feasible given
the site's constraints;
   F.   Provides adequate, but not excessive parking, and off-street storage
for recreational vehicles;
   G.   Continues Three Forks' historic residential neighborhood pattern of
boulevards with street trees;
   H.   Is child- and pedestrian-friendly, allowing childcare uses, and
providing bicycle and pedestrian access throughout, as well as a connection to
the regional trail system;
   I.   Is organized around focal points that include neighborhood parks or
playgrounds, community gardens, or similar activity centers;
   J.   Offers a variety of housing choices; and
   K.   Addresses the need for housing affordable to the people who make Three
Forks work, for example city employees, schoolteachers, and hospitality
workers.
The SED will be a residential neighborhood, but low-impact commercial uses may
be permitted to buffer the neighborhood from incompatible neighboring uses and
the adjacent transportation corridor. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-2: BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the SED are as shown on the official zoning map of the City
of Three Forks. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-3: PERMITTING PROCESS:
   A.   Approval of the proposed annexation and subdivision of the area within
the SED shall be based on a finding of compliance with the regulations adopted
or referenced in this chapter.
   B.   Conditions may be imposed upon approval of the proposed annexation and
subdivision of the area within the SED. All conditions must be based on
specific standards adopted or referenced in this chapter.
   C.   Subsequent development will require only a zoning permit issued by the
staff upon finding that it complies with all standards of these regulations,
and the terms and conditions of the annexation agreement and subdivision
approval.
   D.   The Staff may seek the advice of the planning and zoning board before
making the decision to approve or deny a zoning permit. Such consultations must
occur at the first board meeting after the application for a zoning permit is
filed and for which proper notice of the consultation as an agenda item can be
posted.
   E.   Any proposal to change an approved subdivision plat must meet all
requirements of this chapter and the city's subdivision regulations.
   F.   Any proposal to alter the terms of an approved annexation agreement
must be reviewed and approved by the city council. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Dwellings at a minimum density of five (5) dwelling units per buildable
acre, in any building form that complies with the standards of this chapter.
The maximum density of dwellings shall be twelve (12) dwelling units per
buildable acre.
   B.   Childcare with valid state licenses and in continuing compliance with
state and local regulations and this code.
   C.   Home businesses in continuing compliance with this title, and title 4;
   D.   Customary accessory uses and structures, including accessory dwelling
units as mandated by state law;
   E.   Off-street parking in compliance with the standards of this title;
   F.   Infrastructure, including but not limited to neighborhood parks and
utilities, that serve the neighborhood.
   G.   Low-impact commercial uses that buffer the neighborhood from
potentially incompatible uses. Low-impact commercial development permitted in
the SED must be amply buffered from adjoining or nearby residences, single-
story, and built with non-reflective materials in muted colors. It must not:
      1.   Attract heavy trucks onto residential streets or generate traffic
inconsistent with the enjoyment of nearby homes and a pedestrian-friendly
neighborhood;
      2.   Generate potentially adverse impacts on neighboring uses, including,
but not limited to blowing dust, litter, or smoke; more than occasional noise
or vibration (routine maintenance and repair are allowed during daylight
hours); odor, or runoff onto public ways or adjoining properties;
      3.   Have outdoor lighting that directs glare onto adjoining residential
properties (functional and security lighting is permitted, but the application
for a permit must show how it complies with this standard); or
      4.   Be classified as group H occupancies, as defined by the
international fire code. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height in the SED is twenty-four (24) feet to the eaves
and thirty-two (32) feet overall. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-6: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   The maximum building coverage in the SED is forty percent (40%), except
as provided by subsection B, below.
   B.   The application for annexation and subdivision may propose, and the
city may approve specific exceptions to this standard on lots dedicated to,
affordable housing. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-7: SETBACKS:
   A.   The minimum setbacks for principal buildings in the SED shall be:
front: fifteen (15) feet, side: five (5) feet, and rear: fifteen (15) feet.
   B.   The minimum setback for accessory buildings or structures that rise
above grade in the SED shall be: front: not allowed, side: five (5) feet, rear:
five (5) feet.
   C.   A deeper setback may be required as a condition of approval along any
street that is expected to function as a collector at buildout, with the
additional width required reflecting the anticipated traffic volume.
   D.   Landscaped buffers required by table 11-23-6.1 fulfill (are not in
addition to) the setback requirements of subsections A-C, above. Where the
buffer requirement is greater than the setback requirement, the buffer
requirement applies.
   E.   Balconies, bay windows, eaves, and similar extensions of a building or
structure that do not rest on the ground may extend no more than forty (40)
inches into a required yard.
   F.   Required yards may be used for parking, patios, and accessory
structures within the setbacks provided by subsection B above. Where not paved
or otherwise covered, required yards shall be landscaped in accordance with the
landscaping plan required in section 11-23-2. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, COMPATIBILITY WITH ADJOINING USES:
   A.   The potentially adverse impacts of adjoining land uses must be
effectively mitigated. The application for annexation and subdivision shall
identify all adjoining land uses (existing and future, as allowed by the
current zoning) that may adversely affect development in the SED. Proposed
mitigation measures may include site planning (the arrangement of lots,
streets, parking areas, open spaces, and buildings or building envelopes);
landscaped buffers; berms, fences, or walls; and architectural features. Other
mitigation measures proposed by the applicant may be found to be effective by
the city.
   B.   The potentially adverse impacts of development in the SED on adjoining
land uses (existing and future, as allowed by the current zoning) must also be
effectively mitigated using any of the measures listed in subsection A, above.
   C.   Approved mitigation measures are required improvements subject to
continuing maintenance requirements. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-9: COMPATIBILITY WITHIN SED:
   A.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how site
planning, landscaping, and architectural design minimize potential land use
conflict within the SED.
   B.   Potential land use conflict within the SED may be mitigated by
conditions of approval that restrict operating and/or delivery hours.
   C.   Potential land use conflict within the SED may be mitigated by
conditions of approval that restrict potential adverse impacts including
blowing dust or litter, glare, noise, odor, smoke, and/or vibration. (Ord. 404-
2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-10: CIRCULATION:
The application for annexation and subdivision must show how safe, effective
access via driving, bicycling, and walking will be provided throughout the SED.
It must also show how the neighborhood will be connected to the regional trail
system. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-11: PARKING:
   A.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how parking
demand in the SED will be fulfilled in continuing compliance with chapter 13 of
this title.
   B.   Too much pavement generates unnecessary stormwater runoff, increases
the costs of cooling nearby buildings, and detracts from the pedestrian-
friendly character called for in the SED neighborhood. A reasonable estimate of
parking demand should be met, as required by A, above, but the city will not
approve an application for annexation and subdivision that proposes more
parking than is permitted by this title.
   C.   There shall be safe pedestrian circulation within off-street parking
areas that include sixteen (16) or more spaces.
   D.   Off-street parking areas that include sixteen (16) or more spaces shall
be broken up by landscaping (see chapter 23) and effectively buffered by their
location on the site, landscaped buffers, or screening.
   E.   Parking area landscaping should be integrated with stormwater
management on the site as required by section 11-22-14. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-
2025)
11-18A-12: PEDESTRIAN-FRIENDLY DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   There shall be a direct pedestrian connection, ordinarily a sidewalk,
between the sidewalk or trail serving the neighborhood and the main entrance of
every principal building.
   B.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a bicycle/pedestrian connection wherever that
enables a shorter travel time for bicyclists and pedestrians to other parts of
the neighborhood. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-13: OTHER ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE:
The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how water,
wastewater, and private utilities will be provided throughout the SED in
compliance with state, local, and utility standards. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-14: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT (SWM):
   A.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how
stormwater management (SWM) will be provided throughout the SED in compliance
with state and local standards, using low-impact techniques, as feasible.
   B.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how
stormwater management (SWM) is designed to be an asset in the proposed
neighborhood. Filter strips, swales, grassed waterways and other channels,
stormwater ponds, and other erosion and runoff control works shall be
integrated with landscaped buffers, parking area landscaping, and other
vegetated areas. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-15: OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE:
Development in the SED must pay impact fees as required by city ordinances.
(Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-16: NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN:
   A.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how the SED
neighborhood will be organized around one (1) or more focal points. Focal
points are spaces or facilities that are intended to bring neighbors together
and may include parks, playgrounds, pools, community gardens, a neighborhood
green or square, a community center, or similar activity centers.
   B.   The SED shall be served by one (1) or more neighborhood parks that are
within walking distance (two thousand six hundred forty (2,640) feet) of every
dwelling. The application for annexation and subdivision shall show the
location of the proposed neighborhood parks and the facilities to be provided
in them. It shall also show walking distance radii around the proposed park/
s to demonstrate compliance with this standard.
   C.   Boulevards shall be provided along all streets as required by section
11-23-15.
   D.   Streetlights with full cutoff luminaires shall be provided throughout
the SED.
   E.   The application for annexation and subdivision shall show how off-
street parking for recreational (and other excess) vehicles and boats will be
provided to serve the SED neighborhood. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-18A-17 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All required improvements must comply with the current edition of the city's
standards for design and construction. (Ord. 404-2025, 6-10-2025)
CHAPTER 19
AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES
SECTION:
11-19-1: Initiation
11-19-2: Investigation
11-19-3: Public Hearings Required
11-19-4: Submission Requirements For Map Amendments
11-19-1: INITIATION:
   A.   Manner Of Proposing: Proposals to amend, supplement, change, modify or
repeal any of the regulations or the district boundaries established by this
Title or hereafter established, may be initiated by the City Council, the
Zoning and Planning Board, or by petition of any interested person. A petition
by an interested person (which term shall include a partnership and a
corporation) to amend or change the regulations or district boundaries shall be
submitted to the City Council through and reviewed by the Zoning and Planning
Board, which shall consider its merit and make a recommendation to the City
Council.
   B.   Filing Petition; Fee: Whenever the property owner of any land or
building desires a reclassification of his property or change in regulations
applicable thereto, he may file with the City Clerk a petition duly signed and
verified by him requesting an amendment or change of regulations prescribed for
such property (attached with a zoning change or amendment fee in such amount as
set forth in subsection
11-20-2C of this Title). (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
11-19-2: INVESTIGATION:
Upon initiation of an amendment by the City Council or the Zoning and Planning
Board or upon petition from a property owner, the Zoning and Planning Board
shall cause to be made such an investigation of facts bearing on such
initiation or petition as will provide necessary information to assure that the
action of each such petition is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
Title. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
11-19-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS REQUIRED:
   A.   Hearing And Recommendations Of Board: The Zoning and Planning Board
shall hold public hearings on the matters referred to in such initiation or
petition at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to
be heard. At least fifteen (15) days' notice of time and place of such hearing
shall be published in an official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation
in the City. After such hearing or hearings, the Zoning and Planning Board will
make reports and recommendations on said petition or initiation to the City
Council.
   B.   Council Hearing: When the Zoning and Planning Board has recommended an
amendment or supplement to this Title, including a change in the district
boundaries, a public hearing shall be held by the City Council for the purpose
of acting upon the proposed amendment or supplement after public notice. (Ord.
203, 12-9-1983)
   C.   Publication Of Notice; Protest By Property Owners: Such public notice
shall be published in an official paper or a paper of general circulation in
the City telling the time and place of the meeting at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the meeting date. In case, however, of protest against such changes
signed by the owners of twenty five percent (25%) or more either of the area of
the lots included in such proposed change or of those lots immediately adjacent
in the rear thereof extending one hundred fifty feet (150') therefrom or of
those lots adjacent on either side thereof within the block or of those
directly opposite thereof extending one hundred fifty feet (150') from the
street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of
the City Council. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
11-19-4: SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR MAP AMENDMENTS:
   A.   In addition to an accurate and completed amendment application, any
petition to amend a zoning classification shall include a current map drawn to
scale showing all parcels of land included in the petition and the name of the
owner of each parcel certified by the Tax Assessor of Gallatin County from the
records in his office.
   B.   A legal description of the property as to which rezoning is requested
shall be included in such petition. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 20
PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
11-20-1: Application Fees
11-20-2: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
11-20-3: Building Plan Review
11-20-4: Inspections
11-20-5: Zoning Permits
11-20-1: APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   Application For Amendments; Fee: A fee shall be charged for any
application for an amendment to the City Zoning Code, the zoning map of the
City or the City's review of a subdivision plat or development. It shall be a
condition of any approval given by the City Council that before the approval is
effective, the applicant shall pay a fee, in cash, equal to the City's total
cost and expense for publishing notices required or desired by the Council; the
reasonable cost of review of the application by the City Attorney, the City
Engineer and other appropriate professionals; and the cost of any special
meetings of the Council necessary to the conduct of its business in reviewing
the application.
   B.   Approval Contingent Upon Payment Of Fee: Any approval given to the
application shall be contingent upon the payment of the above described
application fee. Any approval is not effective and construction or development
of the contemplated improvements cannot be begun until the fee is paid. In the
event an applicant desires to contest the amount of the fee, the applicant may
appear before the City Council at the next regularly scheduled meeting to state
the basis of the applicant's objection to the fee. The decision of the City
Council shall control and be binding upon such appeal. (Ord. 247, 7-8-1997)
11-20-2: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Establish Schedule: The City Council shall establish a schedule of
fees, charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits,
certificates of zoning compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to
this title. The schedule of fees shall be posted in City Hall, and may be
altered or amended only by the City Council.
   B.   Fees Required Before Action Taken: Until all applicable fees, charges,
and expenses have been paid in full, no action may be taken on any application
or appeal. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
   C.   Fees Enumerated: Zoning application fees including, but not limited to,
Conditional Use Permit, Zoning Text Changes or Map Amendments, Zoning Permits,
and Variances shall be reviewed by the City Council as needed and set via
resolution adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 203, 12-9-1983; amd. Ord. 249-98, 2-10-1998; 2000 Code; Ord. 288-04-05,
11-9-2004; Ord. 312-09, 8-25-2009; Ord. 378-2017, 12-12-2017; Ord. 388-2021, 5-
11-2021)
11-20-3: BUILDING PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Coordination Of Review And Permit Issuance: The zoning official shall
be responsible for plan review coordination and for issuance of zoning permits.
   B.   Application For Zoning Permit: Upon application by any person for a
zoning permit, the zoning official shall review the plans for compliance with
the Zoning Code. (Ord. 193; amd. 2000 Code)
11-20-4: INSPECTIONS:
Zoning inspections shall be conducted by the zoning official. Where other
departments require inspection, the zoning official shall ensure that they are
conducted within a timely manner. (Ord. 193; amd. 2000 Code)
11-20-5: ZONING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   Permit Required: In order to promote the orderly growth and
development of the City, to ensure proper use of the land, conservation,
stabilization and protection of the use value of properties; to adequately
provide for utilities, streets, and convenience; and to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare; no person shall hereafter erect, or
construct or proceed with the erection of or construction of any building or
structure, or externally add to or enlarge, alter, repair, remove or convert,
extend or demolish any noncommercial or nonindustrial building or structure or
cause the same to be done without first obtaining a zoning permit therefor from
the City Clerk upon authorization of the City Council.
      2.   Contents Of Application: The applicant for a zoning permit, before
receiving a permit, shall file with the City Clerk his written application for
said permit and make an affidavit thereto that the statements and descriptions
of materials, the dimensions of the buildings, the exact size, lot or block to
be occupied, the total cost of erection including plumbing, heating, wiring,
the purpose for which the structure will be used, are full, true and complete.
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to hereafter furnish all applicants for
zoning permits an application for a zoning permit. (1977 Code § 15.08.010; amd.
2000 Code)
      3.   Misrepresentation Of Information: Any applicant who shall swear
falsely as to the contents respecting any matter in said application or who
shall make any false representation in said affidavit shall be deemed guilty of
perjury and shall be punished as provided by law. (1977 Code § 15.08.020)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1977 Code § 15.08.050; amd. 2000 Code)
CHAPTER 21
VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-21-1: Violations
11-21-2: Penalties
11-21-1: VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this Title occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Official. He shall record
properly such complaint and immediately investigate and take action thereon as
provided by this Title. (Ord. 253-99, 10-13-1998)
11-21-2: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Violation of the provisions of this Title or failure
to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with the grant of variances or conditional
uses or any of the requirements for conditions imposed by the City Council
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this Title or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense and punishable as such. (Ord. 203, 2-9-1983; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Owner And Tenant Responsible: The owner or tenant of any building,
structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor,
agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists, or maintains such
violation may each be found guilty of separate offense and suffer the penalties
herein provided.
   C.   Other Action: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 203, 12-9-1983)
CHAPTER 22
RESERVED
CHAPTER 23
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
11-23-1: Purpose
11-23-2: Applicability
11-23-3: Existing Vegetation, Clearing
11-23-4: Replacement Of Existing Vegetation
11-23-5: Protection Of Existing Vegetation
11-23-6: Landscaped Buffers
11-23-7: Landscaped Buffers, Yards, Setbacks, Lot Lines
11-23-8: Design Standards For Landscaped Buffers
11-23-9: Impervious Surfaces Within Landscaped Buffers
11-23-10: Screening
11-23-11: Required Screening
11-23-12: Landscaping Parking Areas
11-23-13: Landscaping Along Alleys
11-23-14: Landscaping Along Trails
11-23-15: Landscaping Along Streets
11-23-16: Plant Materials
11-23-17: Variety Of Species
11-23-18: Plant Materials Specifications
11-23-19: Installation And Maintenance Standards
11-23-20: Irrigation
Appendix A: Landscaping Plan Checklist
11-23-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides standards for landscaping and screening that apply, as
relevant, in all zoning districts. These standards seek to:
   A.   Protect functional existing vegetation as development occurs;
   B.   Protect water quality by integrating landscaping and stormwater
management;
   C.   Limit runoff and allow groundwater and wetlands recharge by requiring
vegetated spaces in developing areas;
   D.   Provide urban wildlife habitat by requiring species diversity and
vertical structure in landscaped spaces;
   E.   Ensure land use compatibility by requiring effective landscaped buffers
and/or screening between potentially incompatible uses;
   F.   Create favorable microclimates, reducing energy consumption in
developed spaces;
   G.   Allow the use of xeriscaping to conserve water;
   H.   Maintain and enhance the appearance and character of Three Forks; and
   I.   Ensure that landscaping is properly installed and maintained. (Ord.
405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-2: APPLICABILITY:
All applications for permits must include a landscaping plan that complies with
this chapter. There are two (2) exceptions to this requirement.
   A.   Applications for one-and two-family dwellings and associated accessory
buildings and structures need not include landscaping plans. Please be aware,
though, that the landscaping of residential premises is still required.
   B.   Zoning permits for buildings or structures that are part of
developments for which a landscaping plan has already been approved need not
submit an additional landscaping plan unless a change in the previously
approved plan is proposed.
   C.   A checklist for the contents of landscaping plans is appended to this
chapter. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-3: EXISTING VEGETATION, CLEARING:
The clearing of an entire site of more than one (1) acre at one (1) time is a
violation of this title. Existing vegetation must be removed from large sites
in phases. This could eventually lead to removal of vegetation from an entire
site if that is consistent with section 11-23-4. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-4: REPLACEMENT OF EXISTING VEGETATION:
Existing vegetation that can effectively serve the landscaping functions listed
in the introduction to this chapter shall be retained to the extent feasible
while accommodating the permitted development. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-5: PROTECTION OF EXISTING VEGETATION:
Existing vegetation that is to be retained or landscaping that was installed in
a previous phase of development must be protected from damage during
construction, as required by the standards for design and construction. (Ord.
405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-6: LANDSCAPED BUFFERS:
Table
11-23-6 .1 shows where landscaped buffers are required between adjoining uses
and the type and minimum width of the required buffers. The minimum width may
be reduced by the inclusion of an earthen berm or screening fence or wall, as
provided by section
11-23-7 .
Table 11-23-6.1: Basic Landscaped Buffer Requirements
Use providing buffer  Use being buffered             Buffer type Buffer width
One-and two-family      One-and two-family residential See zoning district
residential
Table 11-23-6.1: Basic Landscaped Buffer Requirements
Use providing buffer   Use being buffered          Buffer type Buffer width
One-and two-family        One-and two-family          See zoning district
residential               residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Open        8
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        12
                         Downtown commercial         Open        12
                         Highway commercial          Dense       16
                         Industrial, within building Dense       16
                         Industrial, outside         Dense       20
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Multi-family up to 5 du/A One-and two-family          Open        12
                          residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Open        8
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        8
                         Downtown commercial         Open        12
                         Highway commercial          Dense       16
                         Industrial, within building Dense       16
                         Industrial, outside         Dense       20
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Multi-family over 5 du/A  One-and two-family          Open        12
                          residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Open        8
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        8
                         Downtown commercial         Open        12
                         Highway commercial          Open        16
                         Industrial, within building Open        16
                         Industrial, outside         Dense       20
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Downtown commercial       One-and two-family          Open        12
                          residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Open        12
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        12
                         Downtown commercial         Not required
                         Highway commercial          Not required
                         Industrial, within building Not required
                         Industrial, outside         Open        8
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Highway commercial        One-and two-family          Dense       16
                          residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Dense       16
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        12
                         Downtown commercial         Open        8
                         Highway commercial          Not required
                         Industrial                  Not required
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Industrial, inside        One-and two-family          Dense       20
building                  residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Dense       20
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Open        16
                         Downtown commercial         Not required
                         Highway commercial          Not required
                         Industrial, outside         Not required
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
Industrial, outside       One-and two-family          Dense       24
building                  residential
                         Multi-family up to 5 du/A   Dense       24
                         Multi-family over 5 du/A    Dense       20
                         Downtown commercial         Open        8
                         Highway commercial          Not required
                         Industrial, outside         Not required
                          building
                         Parking areas, all uses     Add headlight screening
 
(Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-7: LANDSCAPED BUFFERS, YARDS, SETBACKS, LOT LINES:
   A.   Required landscaped buffers may replace rear and side yard
requirements. They do not replace front setback requirements which can be found
in the chapters establishing zoning districts, because no buffer is required
where uses are separated by a street.
   B.   Installation of required landscaped buffers is the responsibility of
the applicant, but buffers may be installed on both sides of lot lines where
both lots are in the same ownership at the time the buffer is installed or
where the adjoining owner agrees. An easement requiring access to and assigning
responsibility for the perpetual maintenance of the required buffer must be
recorded into the chain of title of both lots before a certificate of
compliance will be issued. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-8: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LANDSCAPED BUFFERS:
Table 11-23-6.1 requires one (1) of two (2) types of landscaped buffers
depending on what uses are being buffered.
   A.   A dense buffer must be composed of essentially continuous screening
vegetation that will grow to at least six (6) feet in height. This screening
vegetation must be supplemented, on its exterior side (the side away from the
use being buffered against), by an open landscaped buffer of the width required
by table
11-23-6 .1.
   B.   An open buffer may be substituted for a dense buffer where table 11-23-
6.1 calls for a dense landscaped buffer if the open buffer is double or more
than the width required by table 11-23-6.1.
   C.   An open landscaped buffer must be composed of a ground cover, shrubs
and small trees, and major trees. The minimum density of planting per one
hundred (100) feet of buffer shall be a full ground cover plus any combination
of three (3) major trees, at least three (3) ornamental or understory trees,
and/or shrubs and/or flower beds that occupy at least fifty percent (50%) of
the buffer area.
   D.   Earthen berms up to four (4) feet in height or screening fences or
walls up to eight (8) feet in height may be proposed to reduce the width of a
required buffer. Where this is permitted, the buffer's width may be reduced by
the height of the berm, fence, or wall, but not by more than half the required
width. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-9: IMPERVIOUS SURFACES WITHIN LANDSCAPED BUFFERS:
Impervious cover must be minimized because landscaped buffers should function
as part of a development's stormwater management system. Some exceptions are
permitted by subsections A-D, below.
   A.   Landscaped buffers may be crossed at a right angle (90°, ±10°) by
driveways, roads, sidewalks, trails, and above-ground utilities, including
necessary risers and boxes.
   B.   Sidewalks and trails may run within and parallel to a landscaped
buffer, but the width of the sidewalk or trail will not be counted in the
required width of the buffer.
   C.   Outdoor lighting poles and signs may be placed in a landscaped buffer.
   D.   Landscaped buffers may also include retaining walls, planters, minor
impervious surfaces that are part of SWM plans; and sculptures or other works
of art. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-10: SCREENING:
Screening means that the view of an outdoor use, installation, or structure
from public streets or trails (but not from alleys) or adjoining residences is
effectively blocked by location on the site; earthwork; landscaping; an
enclosure, fence, or wall; or some combination of these techniques, as shown by
the landscaping plan required by this chapter. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-11: REQUIRED SCREENING:
   A.   Screening is required for freight loading areas, outdoor manufacturing,
outdoor materials handling and storage, outdoor mechanical equipment, solid
waste containers, and utility installations, but with the exceptions listed in
subsections B-E, below.
   B.   Screening is not required where the view is entirely from within an
industrial zoning district.
   C.   Utility risers and similar installations and outdoor mechanical
equipment that is immediately adjacent to a building must be screened only if
they are more than five (5) feet in height.
   D.   Utility risers and similar installations may be used as public art
rather than screened.
   E.   The screening required here may be combined into a buffer required by
table
11-23-6 .1. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-12: LANDSCAPING PARKING AREAS:
Parking areas are subject to the same buffering requirements as the use to
which they are accessory. An independent (not accessory) parking area is a
commercial use, subject to the buffer requirements for commercial uses in its
zoning district.
   A.   Parking areas that include sixteen (16) or more spaces shall be broken
up by landscaped islands or medians that occupy a minimum of five percent (5%)
of the parking area.
   B.   Headlight glare from parking areas into the windows of nearby homes
shall be mitigated by the orientation of the parking spaces, landscaping, or
screening.
   C.   No single rank of parking spaces shall include sixteen (16) or more
spaces without being broken up by one (1) or more landscaped islands or
medians.
   D.   Parking lot landscaping shall include large, high-branching deciduous
shade trees that will help keep paved surfaces cool by creating a canopy over
the pavement. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-13: LANDSCAPING ALONG ALLEYS:
Landscaping along an alley is required only where that alley separates uses for
which buffering is required by table
11-23-6 .1. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-14: LANDSCAPING ALONG TRAILS:
Commercial and industrial uses shall provide an open landscaped buffer of at
least eight (8) feet in width along public trails, except where the trail
parallels a street, in which case, see section 11-23-15, below, or where the
trail will be included in a buffer between uses as required by table
11-23-6 .1, in which case, the buffer width required in that table applies.
(Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-15: LANDSCAPING ALONG STREETS:
   A.   Boulevards that include a sidewalk or trail and landscaping shall be
provided along all other streets except where the existing right-of-way width
makes this infeasible and an alternative is negotiated with the city or where
an approved subdivision plan provides an alternative.
   B.   A boulevard is a landscaped strip at least six (6) in width along a
street that includes a ground cover of turf and evenly spaced major trees. The
density of planting per one hundred (100) feet of boulevard shall be a full
cover of turf or approved xeriscape materials and major trees on thirty (30)
foot centers.
   C.   Where a front yard is required (see the zoning district chapters) it
shall be landscaped as provided by the landscaping plan, where such a plan has
been approved by the city, or using plant materials consistent with its
neighborhood. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-16: PLANT MATERIALS:
   A.   Plant materials shall include a diversity of species that are known to
be hardy in Three Forks; are well-adapted for the site; are well-adapted for
the function/s they will perform; provide color throughout the year; and
minimize the need for irrigation.
   B.   Plant materials must not be on the noxious weed lists adopted by the
State and the Gallatin County Weed District found at: https://
www.gallatinmt.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif606/f/uploads/mtnoxiousweedlist.p df (as
amended). (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-17: VARIETY OF SPECIES:
Species diversity means that the landscaping will continue to function if one
(1) or more plant species are adversely affected by a pest or disease. (Ord.
405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-18: PLANT MATERIALS SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Plant materials must conform to ANSI Z60.1 (as amended), the American
standard for nursery stock.
   B.   The minimum size of new plant materials installed in required plantings
shall be as follows: large trees: one and three-forth (1¾) inch caliper;
understory or ornamental trees: one and one-half (1½) inch caliper; and shrubs,
ornamentals: two (2) gallon. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-19: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   The landscaping plan must show that there is an uncompacted soil volume
sufficient to support the long-term health of all plant materials.
   B.   The landscaping plan must show how tree selection and locations are
coordinated and compatible with the location of overhead utilities.
   C.   Landscaping is a required improvement subject to the city's standards
for design and construction.
   D.   A maintenance manual must be provided where there will be more than ten
thousand (10,000) SF of landscaping. (Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
11-23-20: IRRIGATION:
Where feasible, the landscaping plan shall include the installation of
sandpoint wells and a system for the irrigation of the required landscaping.
(Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
APPENDIX A LANDSCAPING PLAN CHECKLIST
The landscaping plan must show where existing vegetation will be retained and
how it will be protected from damage during construction.
The landscaping plan must include a schedule showing that all measures required
to protect existing and previously installed vegetation will be in place before
new construction activities begin.
The landscaping plan must show the dimensions of all proposed buffer/s,
including all crossings and inclusions; a planting design and schedule
appropriate for the proposed buffer type; and one (1) or more typical cross-
sections.
The landscaping plan shall show the contours of proposed earthen berms and one
(1) or more cross-sections detailing their construction, including an
engineer's certification for any earthen berm more than four (4) feet in
height.
The landscaping must show all proposed screening using dimensioned drawings and
renderings or photographs of the proposed screening as it used in another
location.
The landscaping plan must show how all proposed buffers and other landscaping
are integrated into the site's SWM plan.
The landscaping must show the species, variety, and size of all proposed plant
materials.
The landscaping plan must show from what source and how the proposed
landscaping will be irrigated.
(Ord. 405-2025, 6-10-2025)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Purpose And Objectives
12-1-4: Definitions
12-1-5: General Provisions
12-1-6: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-7: Development Permit
12-1-8: Variance/Appeal Procedure
12-1-9: Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-10: Compliance
12-1-11: Penalties
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Montana has delegated the responsibility to
local government units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
Other authority for municipalities and counties to adopt floodplain management
regulations appears in sections 76-5-101 through 406, Montana Code Annotated.
(Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Three Forks are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-3: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   B.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, to be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the city of Three Forks floodplain
administrator's interpretation of any provisions of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The computed elevation to which floodwater is
anticipated to rise during the base flood. Base flood elevations (BFEs) are
shown on flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and on the flood profiles.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before September 5, 1990.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map dated September 2, 2011,
on which the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas
of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report dated September 2, 2011, provided
by the federal emergency management agency that includes flood profiles, the
flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one-half foot
(0.5').
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior.
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after September 5, 1990, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Three
Forks.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the zoning permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
main structure.
   STRUCTURE: A. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally
aboveground, as well as a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes,
means:
1. A building with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
2. A manufactured home (a "manufactured home", also known as a mobile home, is
a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in 1 or more
sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
3. A travel trailer without wheels, built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
   B.   For the latter purpose, "structure" does not mean a recreational
vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in
subsection A3 of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. A repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
1. Before the improvement or repair is started; or
2. If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred.
   B.   For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of historic
places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR section 60.3, (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), and (e)(2) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicable Lands: This chapter shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city of Three Forks.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas: The areas of special flood hazard
identified by the federal emergency management agency is a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For The City Of Three
Forks, Montana, Gallatin County", dated September 2, 2011, with an accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter.
   C.   Compliance: No land use shall be developed, and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered within the 100-year
floodplain without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations and
other applicable regulations. These regulations meet the minimum requirements
as set forth by the Montana department of natural resources and conservation,
and the national flood insurance program.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal emergency
management agency for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 325-11,
8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-6: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The city of Three Forks zoning official shall hereby be
appointed as city floodplain administrator (FPA) and will administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications
in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties of the city floodplain
administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from federal, state, or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required, including section 404 of the federal
water pollution control act amendments of 1972.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of section
12-1-9 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Maintain Records: Keep a record of all permits, appeals, variances
and such other transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration
of this chapter.
      3.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
 12-1-5B of this chapter, the city floodplain administrator shall obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data
available from any federal, state, or other source as criteria for requiring
that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in zone A
are administered in accordance with section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
      4.   Information Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether the structure includes a basement. The FEMA
elevation certificate shall be completed for all new or substantially improved
structures.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection
12-1-9E of this chapter.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the state of Montana department
of natural resources and conservation floodplain administrator prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      6.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). For the purposes of administering
this chapter, the floodplain administrator will determine the floodplain zone
in which the development activity is proposed, interpret floodplain boundaries
and provide flood hazard and flood protection elevation information. When
available, the FPA shall use the floodway data table to determine floodway
width, and the flood profiles to determine BFEs. When FEMA has not provided
BFEs, the FPA shall use best available data. When no best available data
exists, the FIRM/FHBM shall be used. The person contesting an elevation or
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in section
12-1-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-7: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A floodplain development permit issued by the
floodplain administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development
(any manmade change to improved and unimproved real estate, including, but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations), including the placement of factory built
homes, within any area of special flood hazard established in subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter. If the application is deemed incomplete, the
floodplain administrator will notify the applicant of deficiencies within sixty
(60) days. Under no circumstances should it be assumed that the permit is
automatically granted. All approved applications will be signed by the
floodplain administrator. Denied applications may be resubmitted if additional
information is provided to support a change in development.
   B.   Notice Of Application: Upon receipt of a complete application for a
permit, the floodplain administrator shall prepare a notice containing the
facts pertinent to the application and shall publish the notice at least once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area. Notice shall also be served
by first class mail upon adjacent property owners. The state floodplain NFIP
coordinator located in DNRC and other permitting agencies shall also receive
notice by the most efficient method. The notice shall provide a reasonable
period of time, not less than fifteen (15) days, for interested parties to
submit comments on the proposed activity. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-
2011)
   C.   Application For Permit; Contents: A fee shall be paid for each
application. The City Council shall establish the fee, or after- the-fact fee,
by resolution. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the City Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required: (Ord.
377-2017, 12-12-2017)
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
12-1-9E of this chapter; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 345-13, 11-26-2013)
   D.   Permit Application Factors: Floodplain development permits shall be
granted or denied by the Floodplain Administrator on the basis of whether the
proposed establishment, development, alteration, or substantial improvement of
an artificial obstruction meets the requirements of these regulations.
Additional factors that shall be considered for every permit application are:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights,
increased floodwater velocities, backwater or alterations in the pattern of
flood flow caused by the obstruction or encroachment;
      2.   The danger that the obstruction or encroachment may be swept onto
other lands or downstream to the injury of others;
      3.   The ability of the proposed water supply and/or sanitation system to
prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions;
      4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
      5.   The construction or alteration of the obstruction or encroachment in
such manner as to lessen the flooding danger;
      6.   The importance of the services provided by the facility to the
community;
      7.   The requirement of the facility for a waterfront location;
      8.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      9.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
Floodplain Management Program for the area;
      11.   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services;
      12.   The request for fill for a residential or commercial building is
not followed by a request for a basement for the same residential or commercial
building, which would put the finished floor of the building below the BFE,
which would negate the purpose of the fill;
      13.   The proposed use shall comply with the existing zoning designation;
      14.   For projects involving bank stabilization, channelization, levees,
floodwalls and/or diversions, off property impacts including increased flood
peaks, flood stage, flood velocity, erosion and sedimentation, should be
considered and found to be nonexistent, neutral or able to be mitigated; and
      15.   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the Montana Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   E.   Emergency Waiver: Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, and flood
control works may be authorized by the Floodplain Administrator if:
      1.   Upon notification and prior to the emergency repair and/or
replacement, the floodplain administrator determines that an emergency
condition exists warranting immediate action; and
      2.   The floodplain administrator agrees upon the nature and type of
proposed emergency repair and/or replacement.
      3.   Authorization to undertake emergency repair and replacement work may
be given verbally if the floodplain administrator feels that such a written
authorization would unduly delay the emergency work. Such verbal authorization
must be followed by a written permit describing the emergency condition, the
type of emergency work agreed upon, and stating that a verbal authorization had
been previously given. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-8: VARIANCE/APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   The board of adjustment, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The board of adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the city floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      3.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the board of adjustment, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to a court of competent jurisdiction, as
provided in state law.
      4.   In passing upon such applications, the board of adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and
bridges.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A4 of this section
and the purposes of this chapter, the board of adjustment may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      6.   The city floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions, including technical information, and report any variances to
the federal emergency management agency.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing subsections A4a through A4k
of this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond
the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justifications required for issuing the
variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expenses, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public as identified in subsection A4 of this section, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
      5.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-9: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure and capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Floodway:
      1.   Uses Allowed Without Permit: The following open space uses shall be
allowed without a permit anywhere within the floodway, provided that such uses
are not prohibited by any other resolution or statute, do not require
structures other than portable structures, do not require alteration of the
floodplain such as fill, excavation or permanent storage of materials or
equipment, do not require large scale cleaning of the riparian vegetation
within fifty feet (50') of the mean high water mark, will not cause flood
losses on other land or to the public:
         a.   Agricultural uses such as tilling, farming, irrigation,
harvesting, grazing, etc.;
         b.   Accessory uses such as loading and parking areas, or emergency
landing strips associated with industrial or commercial facilities;
         c.   Private and public recreational uses such as picnic grounds,
swimming areas, parks, trap, skeet, target, shooting, and archery ranges,
wildlife management and natural areas, hunting and fishing areas, or hiking and
horseback riding trails;
         d.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
         e.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas;
         f.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are
located at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells;
         g.   Fences, except permanent fences crossing channels;
         h.   Recreational vehicle use provided that they be on the site for
fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or be fully licensed and
ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
      2.   Uses Requiring Permits: The following nonconforming uses and
artificial obstructions may be permitted within the designated floodway,
provided that such uses conform to all regulations and are approved for permit
issuance by the floodplain administrator:
         a.   Excavation of material from pits or pools provided that:
            (1)   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width to
prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is left between the
edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation;
            (2)   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of
other local and state agencies; and
            (3)   Excavated material is stockpiled outside the designated
floodway. (However, for short term gravel mining operations, the floodplain
administrator may allow stockpiling in the floodway fringe if there is no other
alternative and there is no significant [1/2 foot] rise in the BFE. A "no rise"
certification signed by a licensed engineer shall be required.)
         b.   Railroad, highway, street and stream crossings, provided that:
            (1)   The crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to
the flood flow;
            (2)   Where failure or interruption of transportation facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety, the bottom of bridge
spans shall have freeboard to at least two feet (2') above the BFE;
            (3)   If possible, normal overflow channels are preserved to allow
passage of sediments to prevent aggradations;
            (4)   Midstream supports for bridges, if necessary, must have
footings buried below the maximum scour depth; and
            (5)   Stream crossings shall not increase the elevation of the 100-
year flood nor cause a significant increase in flood velocities. The applicant
shall provide a "no rise" certification signed by a registered professional
engineer. However, if the applicant receives a CLOMR from FEMA and LOMR, a half
foot rise may be permitted.
         c.   Limited filling for highway, street, and railroad embankments not
associated with stream crossings and bridges provided that:
            (1)   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the
designated floodway are not available;
            (2)   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible;
            (3)   Measures are provided to mitigate the impact to property
owners and the natural stream function; and
            (4)   The encroachment shall not result in a cumulative increase in
base flood elevation, after the allowable encroachment into the floodway. A "no
rise" certification signed by a registered professional engineer shall be
provided by the applicant. However, if the applicant receives a CLOMR from FEMA
and LOMR, a half foot rise may be permitted.
         d.   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines, provided that:
            (1)   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that
the lowest point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than
the elevation of the flood of 100-year frequency;
            (2)   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and
placed to withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
            (3)   When technically feasible, the crossing will not disturb the
bed and banks of the stream and alternatives such as alternative routes,
directional drilling, and aerial crossings are considered; and
            (4)   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable
materials are buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth
of scour for a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency. The maximum depth of
scour may be determined from any of the accepted hydraulic engineering methods,
but the final calculated figures shall be subject to approval by the floodplain
administrator.
         e.   Storage of materials and equipment provided that:
            (1)   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by
flooding and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement;
and
            (2)   The material or equipment is readily removable within the
limited time available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic or
explosive materials shall not be permitted.
         f.   Irrigation, livestock and domestic water supply wells, provided
that:
            (1)   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher
than surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
            (2)   They require no other structures (e.g., a well house);
            (3)   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty
five feet (25') below the ground surface;
            (4)   Water supply and electrical lines have a watertight seal
where the lines enter the casing;
            (5)   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of
the submersible type or are adequately floodproofed;
            (6)   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and
at all building entry locations; and
            (7)   Irrigation and livestock supply wells are located at least
five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells.
         g.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that meet the requirements
and separation distances under ARM 17.36.101-116 and ARM 17.36.301-345 are
allowed.
         h.   Fences crossing channels.
         i.   Residential uses not requiring buildings such as lawns, gardens,
parking areas and play areas.
         j.   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such
as campgrounds, golf courses, driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife
management and natural areas, alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish
hatcheries and shooting preserves provided that:
            (1)   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or
divert floodwaters;
            (2)   There are no dwellings or permanent mobile homes;
            (3)   There is no rise in the BFE;
            (4)   Off property impacts have been considered and found to be
nonexistent, neutral or can be mitigated;
            (5)   There is no large scale clearing of riparian vegetation
within fifty feet (50') of the mean annual high water mark; and
            (6)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and
ready for highway use. They are ready for highway use if on wheels or jacking
system with wheels intact, are attached to the site with only quick disconnect
type utilities and securing devices, and have no permanently attached
additions.
         k.   Structures accessory to the uses permitted in this section, such
as boat docks, loading and parking areas, marinas, emergency airstrips,
permanent fences crossing channels, picnic shelters and tables, provided that:
            (1)   The structures are not intended for human habitation or
supportive of human habitation;
            (2)   The structures will have low flood damage potential as
certified by a registered professional engineer on a "no rise" certificate;
            (3)   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on
ground higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as
possible;
            (4)   Only those wastewater disposal systems that meet the
requirements and separation distances under ARM 17.36.101-116 and ARM
17.36.301-345 are allowed;
            (5)   Service facilities within these structures such as
electrical, heating and plumbing are floodproofed in accordance with subsection
E of this section;
            (6)   The structure will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to flood flows and is firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
            (7)   The use does not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
and
            (8)   The use does not require the large scale clearing of riparian
vegetation within fifty feet (50') of the mean annual high water mark.
         l.   Replacement of manufactured homes in an existing manufactured
home park, sites outside of a park or subdivision, or subdivision on a
developed site of the same dimensions with servicing utilities. (Previous home
could have been destroyed by fire, flood, etc.) The replacement home must be
elevated on a permanent foundation so the lowest floor is two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation. The foundation must be reinforced concrete,
reinforced mortared block, reinforced piers, or other foundation elements of
equal strength. The mobile home chassis must be securely anchored to the
foundation system so that it will resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   Over the top ties to ground anchors be provided at each of
the four (4) corners of the mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side
at intermediate locations for mobile homes less than fifty feet (50') long;
            (2)   Frame ties to ground anchors be provided at each corner of
the home with five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, for
mobile homes more than fifty feet (50') long;
            (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds;
            (4)   Any additions to the mobile home must be similarly anchored;
and
            (5)   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler are
provided.
         m.   Agricultural structures (except buildings, dwellings and fuel
storage) that will have low flood damage potential, or be located on higher
ground and as far from the channel as possible, and meet the floodproofing
requirements of subsection E of this section.
         n.   New surface water diversions and changes in place of diversion
for agricultural uses and other uses, designed by a registered engineer to meet
the following requirements:
            (1)   A copy of the water right permit or change authorization
permit from MTDNRC water rights bureau for new surface water diversions and
changes in place of diversion;
            (2)   Documentation that the proposed diversion or modification
will not increase the upstream elevation of the base flood to the detriment of
a neighboring property. Any increase to the BFE will require a CLOMR and LOMR;
            (3)   The proposed diversion is designed and constructed to
minimize potential erosion from a base flood;
            (4)   For a permanent diversion structure crossing the full width
of the stream channel:
               (A)   All other options should be studied and considered first;
               (B)   The structure is designed and constructed to withstand up
to a base flood; and
               (C)   The diversion is not an obstruction to the passage of
watercraft or fish.
         o.   The following flood control measures designed by a registered
professional engineer to comply with the conditions set forth (structural flood
control works often significantly obstruct and affect floodway flow capacity):
            (1)   Levees and floodwalls (new, reconstruction and/or
maintenance) if:
               (A)   The proposed levee or floodwall is designed and
constructed to safely convey a 100-year flood; and
               (B)   The cumulative effect of the levee or floodwall combined
with allowable floodway fringe encroachments does not increase the unobstructed
base flood elevation more than one-half foot (1/2'). The floodplain
administrator may establish either a lower or higher permissible increase in
the base flood elevation for individual levee projects only with concurrence
from the Montana department of natural resources and conservation and the
federal emergency management agency based upon consideration of the following
criteria:
                  (i)   The estimated cumulative effect of any anticipated
future permissible uses; and
                  (ii)   The type and amount of existing development in the
affected area.
               (C)   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, is constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the base
flood elevation.
               (D)   For levee structures to be recognized on a FEMA map as
providing flood protection, the structure must meet the criteria outlined in 44
CFR 65.10. Without the criteria being met, the area behind the uncertified
structure will be shown to be in the floodplain of the flood source (river).
            (2)   Bank stabilization projects, such as hand placed riprap,
native revetments, weirs, barbs, etc., if:
               (A)   It is designed to withstand a 100-year flood;
               (B)   It does not increase the base flood elevation;
               (C)   It will not increase erosion upstream, downstream, or
adjacent to the site;
               (D)   Consideration will be given to accommodate the safe
passage of watercraft in low flows; and/or
               (E)   It is preventive maintenance for bridge abutments, roads,
industrial uses and public infrastructure.
            (3)   Channelization projects if they do not significantly increase
the magnitude, velocity, or base flood elevation in the proximity of the
project.
            (4)   Dams, provided that:
               (A)   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the
Montana dam safety act and applicable safety standards; and
               (B)   They will not increase flood hazards downstream either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
         p.   All other artificial obstructions, substantial improvements, or
nonconforming uses not specifically listed in or prohibited by these
regulations.
      3.   Prohibited Uses: The following artificial obstructions and
nonconforming uses are prohibited within the floodway:
         a.   A building, dwelling or structure for living purposes, place of
assembly or permanent use by human beings;
         b.   New construction of any residential dwelling, commercial or
industrial building;
         c.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, buildings,
substantial improvements, excavations and other development that would cause
water to be diverted from the established floodway, erosion of embankment,
obstruction of the natural flow of waters, reduce the carrying capacity of the
floodway or increase flood levels within the community during the occurrence of
the 100-year flood;
         d.   The construction or permanent storage of an object subject to
flotation or movement during the 100-year flood;
         e.   Mobile homes and manufactured homes;
         f.   Storage and disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, toxic,
flammable, or explosive materials;
         g.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that meet the requirements
and separation distances under ARM 17.36.101-116 and ARM 17.36.301-345 are
allowed;
         h.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other places of burial of human
remains.
   C.   Floodway Fringe:
      1.   Uses Allowed Without Permits: All uses allowed in the floodway
without permit according to the provisions of these regulations, shall also be
allowed without a permit in the floodway fringe.
      2.   Uses Requiring Permits: All uses allowed in the floodway subject to
the issuance of a permit according to the provisions of these regulations shall
also be allowed by permit within the designated floodway fringe. In addition,
new construction, substantial improvements, alterations to structures
(including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, agricultural and
industrial), and suitable fill shall be allowed subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Flood Fringe: Except an encroachment is not required for
development in the designated flood fringe;
         b.   Floodplain: The allowable encroachment increase for developments
in the designated floodplain without a floodway and with or without a base
flood elevation is 0.5 foot unless a lesser amount is specified in the specific
supporting hydraulic analysis supports the floodplain designation study adopted
herein;
         c.   Otherwise Prohibited: Such structures or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution;
         d.   Comprehensive Plans: Such structures or fill must be compatible
with local comprehensive plans, if any;
         e.   Residential: The new construction, alterations, and substantial
improvements of residential dwellings including manufactured homes must be
constructed on suitable fill with a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor elevation (including basement) is two feet (2') or more above the BFE
(base flood elevation). The suitable fill shall be at an elevation no lower
than the elevation of the 100-year flood and shall extend for at least fifteen
feet (15'), at that elevation, beyond the dwelling(s) in all directions.
Replacement manufactured and mobile homes in an existing mobile home park or
subdivision may, instead of using suitable fill, be elevated on a concrete or
mortared block foundation, or other suitable permanent foundation, and anchored
to prevent flotation or downstream movement.
            (1)   Crawl space must be designed to allow internal flooding and
must be limited to storage of equipment or materials not appreciably affected
by floodwaters. The floors and walls shall be designed and constructed of
materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than two feet (2')
above the BFE. Walls shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces by
allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices which permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
            (2)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               (A)   A minimum of two (2) openings;
               (B)   Openings shall have a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
               (C)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot (1') above grade;
               (D)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         f.   Nonresidential: The new construction, alteration, and substantial
improvement of commercial and industrial buildings must be constructed on
suitable fill with a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor elevation
(including basement) is two (2) or more feet above the BFE (base flood
elevation), or the building must be adequately floodproofed to an elevation no
lower than two feet (2') above the elevation of the 100-year flood. The
building is required to be designed by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or other qualified person that floodproofing methods are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, velocities,
impact, buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the 100-year flood.
            (1)   If the building is designed to allow internal flooding of the
lowest floor, use of the lowest floor must be limited to parking, loading
areas, and storage of equipment or materials not appreciably affected by
floodwaters. The floors and walls shall be designed and constructed of
materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than two feet (2')
above the BFE. Walls shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces by
allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices which permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
            (2)   Buildings whose lowest floors are used for a purpose other
than parking, loading, or storage of materials resistant to flooding shall be
waterproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the BFE.
Floodproofing shall include impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors and other openings.
These buildings shall be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and
hydrodynamic forces resulting from the base flood.
            (3)   Floodproofing of electrical, heating and plumbing systems
shall be accomplished in accordance with subsection E of this section.
         g.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes placed in the floodway
fringe shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
damage and must have the chassis securely anchored to a foundation system that
will resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces. The following conditions also apply:
            (1)   When a manufactured home is: a) altered, b) replaced because
of substantial damage as a result of a flood or c) replaced on an individual
site, the lowest floor must be elevated two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. The home can be elevated on fill or raised on a permanent foundation
of reinforced concrete, reinforced mortared block, reinforced piers, or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
            (2)   Replacement or substantial improvement of manufactured homes
in an existing manufactured home park, site outside a manufactured home park or
subdivision, or subdivision must be raised on a permanent foundation. The
lowest floor must be two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. The
foundation must consist of reinforced concrete, reinforced mortared block,
reinforced piers, or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
            (3)   Manufactured homes proposed for use as commercial or
industrial buildings must be elevated and anchored, rather than floodproofed.
         h.   Fill Material: Fill material placed in the floodway fringe must
be stable, compacted, well graded, pervious, generally unaffected by water and
frost, devoid of trash or similar foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or
other organic material, and appropriate for the purpose of supporting the
intended use and/or permanent structure;
         i.   Roads, Streets, Highways And Rail Lines: Roads, streets, highways
and rail lines shall be designed to minimize any increase in flood heights.
Where failure or interruption of transportation facilities would result in
danger to the public health or safety, the facility shall be located two feet
(2') above the elevation of the 100-year flood;
         j.   Agricultural Buildings: Agricultural buildings that have a low
damage potential, such as sheds, barns, shelters, and hay or grain storage
structures must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse and all
electrical facilities shall be placed two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation;
         k.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles must meet the
following requirements:
            (1)   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days, or
            (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
            (3)   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
12-1-7C of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection C2g of this section. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions.
      3.   Prohibited Uses: The following artificial obstructions and
nonconforming uses are prohibited within the floodway fringe:
         a.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that meet the requirements
and separation distances under ARM 17.36.101-116 and ARM 17.36.301-345 are
allowed;
         b.   Storage and disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, toxic,
flammable, or explosive materials; and
         c.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other places of burial of human
remains.
   D.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   Review subdivision proposals and other development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such proposals
will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a subdivision or other development
proposal is in a flood prone area, assure that such proposals minimize flood
damage.
      2.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser.
      3.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   E.   Floodproofing Requirements:
      1.   Certification: If the following floodproofing requirements are to be
utilized for a particular structure in accordance with these regulations, the
methods used must be certified as adequate by a registered professional
engineer, architect, or other qualified person.
      2.   Conformance: Permitted floodproofing systems shall conform to the
conditions listed below and the floodproofing standards listed in subsection
C2f of this section for commercial and industrial buildings:
         a.   Electrical Systems:
            (1)   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet (2') above the
elevation of the 100-year flood.
            (2)   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below
the elevation of the 100-year flood, provided that the equipment can be
disconnected by a single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type.
            (3)   The main power service lines shall automatically operate
electrical disconnect equipment of manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the designated
floodplain and above the elevation of the 100-year flood.
            (4)   All electrical wiring systems installed below the elevation
of the 100-year flood shall be suitable for continuous submergence and may not
contain fibrous components.
         b.   Heating Systems:
            (1)   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed in
gas furnace supply lines so that fuel supply is automatically shut off when
floodwaters reach the floor level where the furnace is located.
            (2)   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the elevation of
the 100-year flood.
            (3)   Electric heating systems must be installed in accordance with
the provisions of subsection E2a(1) of this section.
         c.   Plumbing Systems:
            (1)   Sewer lines, except those to be buried and in sealed vaults,
must have check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted
structures.
            (2)   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible entry is at least two feet (2') above
the 100-year flood elevation. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-10: COMPLIANCE:
Any use, alteration, or construction not in compliance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable as provided in
section
12-1-11 of this chapter or enforced as provided in 76-5-109 Montana Code
Annotated. An applicant may be required to submit certification by a registered
professional engineer, architect, or other qualified person designated by the
floodplain administrator, that finished fill, building floor elevations,
floodproofing, hydraulic design, or other flood protection measures be
accomplished in compliance with these regulations. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-2011,
eff. 9-1-2011)
12-1-11: PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with any
of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior to
development on the floodplain shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates these regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements
(including the conditions and safeguards established in variances) shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or
imprisoned for not more than ten (10) days or both. Each day's continuance of a
violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 325-11, 8-23-
2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
APPENDIX A - ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No.   Date      Description
203      12-9-1983   The city council hereby annexes into the corporate
boundaries of the city of Three Forks the Three Forks Pond and fishing access
site, more particularly described as a parcel of land situated in the NE1/4 and
the SE1/4 of Section 25, Township 2 North, Range 1 East, Montana Principal
Meridian, Gallatin County, Montana.
223      2-3-1992   Annexation of 19.3298 acres of land southwest of the city;
the external boundaries of the area annexed to the city of Three Forks are
described as a parcel of land located in the north 1/2 northeast 1/4, east 1/
2 northwest 1/4 and the southwest 1/4 northeast 1/4 of Section 35, T2N, R1E,
PMM, Gallatin County, Montana, said parcel of land being a portion of the
abandoned right of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railway.
240      1996   The real property known as Fairway Vista Subdivision is hereby
annexed to the existing boundaries of the city of Three Forks.
251-98   2-10-1998   Annexation of Iva Bellach real property known as a tract
of land situated in the NE1/4 of Section 36, T2N, R1E, PMM, Gallatin County,
Montana, is hereby annexed to the city boundaries of the city of Three Forks.
290-05-06   11-22-2005   Real property known as a tract of land situated in
portions of section 25, the E1/2 section 26, the NE1/4 section 35, and the NW1/
4 section 36, T2N, R1E, PMM, town of Three Forks, Gallatin County, Montana, is
hereby annexed to the city boundaries.
291-05-06   11-22-2005   Real property known as a tract of land situated in
portions of section 25, the E1/2 section 26, the NE1/4 section 35, and the NW1/
4 section 36, T2N, R1E, PMM, town of Three Forks, Gallatin County, Montana, is
hereby annexed to the city boundaries.
298-06-07   3-5-2007   A tract of land located within the East Half of the East
Half of Section 36, Township 2 North, Range 1 East, and the Northeast Quarter
of the Northeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 1 North, Range 1 East of the
Principal Meridian of Montana, Gallatin County, Montana and being further
described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Section 36, said point also being the
Northeast corner of said Section 1. Thence South 00°44'46" West along the East
line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 1, a distance of 903.99 feet;
thence North 89°20'05" West, a distance of 119.33 feet to the easterly right-
of- way easement line of Kyd Road; thence along the easterly right-of-way
easement line of Kyd Road (at its present day location) the following three (3)
courses: (1) North 18°21'43" West, a distance of 1,781.59 feet; (2) North
14°22'17" West, a distance of 477.02 feet; (3) North 03°10'21" West, a distance
of 357.46 feet; thence departing said easterly right-of-way line and along a
74.43 foot radius non-tangent curve to the left, the tangent to which bears
North 86°49'39" East, through a central angle of 80°03'41", an arc distance of
104.00 feet; thence North 06°45'58" East, a distance of 713.59 feet; thence
along a 470.00 foot radius curve to the left, through a central angle of
7°15'03"; an arc distance of 59.48 feet; thence North 00°29'05" West, a
distance of 234.05 feet; thence along a 170.00 foot radius curve to the right,
through a central angle of 30°56'40", an arc distance of 91.81 feet; thence
North 21°
Said Tract of land being 56.6511 acres, along with and subject to all existing
easements.
368-2016   10-11-2016   A tract of land in the NW1/4 of section 36, T2N, R1E,
PMM, Gallatin County, Montana, being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 36, then South 0°15'05" West on
and along the west line of Section 36 for a distance of 366.00 feet to the
point of beginning; thence South 89°59'23" east, on and along the corporate
limits of the town of Three Forks, a distance of 240.56 feet; thence South
0°11'44" West for a distance of 100.00 feet; thence South 89°59'23" East for a
distance of 35.00 feet; thence South 0°11'44" West, a distance of 386.51 feet;
thence North 89°59'23" West for a distance of 276.00 feet to a point on the
west line of Section 36; thence North 0°15'05" east on and along said west line
for a distance of 486.51 feet to the point of beginning. Said described tract
contains 3.00 acres [deed reference film 22, page 1205].
Res. 318-2020   3-10-2020   Annexing Tract 3A-1 of the Certificate of Survy
942A (located in the west half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 36, Township
2 North, Range 1 East.
Res.    3-11-2020   Annexing Tract 3A-1 of certificate of Survey No. 942A,
located in the NW 1/4 of Section 36, Township 2 North Range 1 East, P.M.M,
Gallatin County Montana according to the official survey thereof on file and of
record in the Office of County Clerk and Recorder, Gallatin County Montana
(deed reference: Doc. No. 2625920). Said described tract contains 3.91 acres
[deed reference Film 222, Page 1205].
APPENDIX B - VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No.   Date      Description
--      1977 Code   That certain portion of Oak Street between the continuation
of the west line of Third Avenue East and the continuation of the east line of
Second Avenue East, according to the recorded plat of Milwaukee Land Company's
First Addition to Three Forks, in Gallatin County, Montana; and that certain
portion of second alley east lying and being within Block 34 of Milwaukee Land
Company's First Addition to the City of Three Forks, in Gallatin County,
Montana.
245      1997   That portion of Front Street lying within the SE 1/4 of Section
26, T2N, PMM, City of Three Forks, Gallatin County, Montana.
711      7-22-1997   A portion of Front Street at the intersection of West
Front Street and Kansas.
254-99      3-9-1999   A Tract of land being a portion of Jefferson Street as
shown on the Re-Arrangement of Blocks 1 thru 18 in Buttelman's Addition to
Three Forks, situated in the NE1/4 of Section 26, Township 2 North, Range 1
East, P.M.M., City of Three Forks, Gallatin County, Montana, and being further
described as follows:
Beginning at a point being the intersection of the north Right-of-way line of
said Jefferson Street and the west Right-of-way line of an existing road, said
point is parallel and 33 feet west of the east line of Section 26; thence along
said line S 00°00'53" E a distance of 52.58 feet to a point on the south Right-
of-way line of said Jefferson Street; thence along said line S 41°43'07" W a
distance of 113.62 feet; thence N 48°10'45" W a distance of 35.00 feet to a
point on the north Right-of-way line of said Jefferson Street; thence along
said line N 41°43'07" E a distance of 152.79 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said Tract being 0.107 acres or 4,662 Sq. Ft.
110-2009   2-24-2009   A portion of Kentucky Street between Jefferson Street
and Adams Street.
384-2019   9-10-2019   Vacating the easterly 30 feet of Front Street from the
southerly city limits in a north easterly direction to the corner of Montana
Street.
