TOWN CODE
of
VALIER, MONTANA
1999
Code current through:
Ord. 203, passed 5-12-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Valier, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 203, passed May 12, 2025. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 167
AN ORDINANCE FOR THE CODIFICATION AND REVISIONS OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN
OF VALIER, MONTANA. PRESENTLY CODIFIED IN TITLES I THROUGH XI OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE OF THE TOWN OF VALIER, MONTANA, COUNTY OF PONDERA.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF VALIER, MONTANA.
   Section 1. That titles I through XI of the existing Valier municipal codes
are hereby codified and revised into titles I through XI of the municipal code
of the town of Valier, Montana 1965.
   Section 2. This ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after its
second passage by the town of Valier council.
   Section 3. Ordinance no. 153 of the town of Valier is hereby repealed.
   Section 4. From and after the effective date of this ordinance, the 1965
codification of the town of Valier ordinances shall be in no further force and
effect.
   Section 5. That upon the effective date of this ordinance a copy of the code
book adopted hereby shall be kept in the offices of the town of Valier.
   FIRST PASSED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF VALIER, MONTANA THIS 8TH DAY OF
FEBRUARY, 1999.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Town Council, this Town Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the Official Town Code of Valier, Montana. This Town
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the VALIER TOWN CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the Town Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the Town as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Town Code by title in any legal documents. (1965 Code § 1-1-1; amd. 1999
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Town Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent
effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1965 Code § 1-1-2; amd. 1999 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Town Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Town Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the Town Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of the Town
Code after return from the codifier. (1965 Code § 1-1-3; amd. 1999 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Town Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Town Council. The Town Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Town Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the Town Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the Town
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Town and shall be
returned to the office of the Town Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Town Council. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the Town passed prior
to the adoption of this Town Code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this Town Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the Town; all special ordinances. (1965 Code § 1-2-1;
amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances as
provided in subsection A of this Section, shall not affect any debt or fee
which is accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term
of office of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take
effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any
ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded. (1999 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Town Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this Town Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, this Town Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1965 Code § 1-2-2)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatsoever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Town
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Town Code. (1965 Code § 1-2-3)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Town Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Town Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Town Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Town Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
Town Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. (1965 Code § 1-1-
4; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town has been
changed in the content of this Town Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1999 Code)
   C.   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit, or authority from a board or officer, shall be construed as
giving such board or officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing
to be done. (1965 Code § 1-1-5)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Town Code of the Town of Valier, Montana.
COUNTY: The County of Pondera, State of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Town of
Valier".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE OR PERMIT: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
NEGLIGENT: The terms negligent, negligence, neglect and negligently import a
want of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or
omission as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Town of
Valier".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Montana.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The Town of Valier, County of Pondera, State of Montana.
TOWN COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Town Council of the Town of
Valier, Montana.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1965 Code § 1-1-5; amd. 1999 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Town Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Interpretations
1-4-4: License Revocation; Authority
1-4-5: Labor In Lieu Of Imprisonment
1-4-6: Default In Payment Of Fine
1-4-7: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and
such person may be confined for a period of not more than six (6) months.
Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed. (1965 Code § 1-3-1;
amd. 1999 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any act which
is of a continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1965 Code § 1-3-6)
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1965 Code § 1-1-
7)
1-4-3: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this Code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this Code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1965 Code § 1-1-6)
1-4-4: LICENSE REVOCATION; AUTHORITY:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to such person by the Town may be revoked by the
court or by the Town Council. (1965 Code § 1-3-5)
1-4-5: LABOR IN LIEU OF IMPRISONMENT:
   A.   Authorized: Any person imprisoned under the provisions of this Chapter
may be put to work for the benefit of the Town for the term of his
imprisonment.
   B.   Females; Sundays: No female prisoner shall be required to work in
public, nor shall any prisoner be required to work on Sunday. (1965 Code § 1-3-
4)
1-4-6: DEFAULT IN PAYMENT OF FINE:
Any person in default of payment of any fine imposed shall be imprisoned in the
County jail for a period of one day for each two dollars ($2.00) of such fine.
(1965 Code § 1-3-2; amd. 1999 Code)
1-4-7: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1965 Code
§ 1-1-8)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Fiscal Year; Division Into Quarters
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-3: Bench Mark
1-5-1: FISCAL YEAR; DIVISION INTO QUARTERS:
The fiscal year is hereby divided into quarters, the same to begin and end as
follows: the first quarter shall begin on January 1 and end on March 31; the
second quarter shall begin on April 1 and end on June 30; the third quarter
shall begin on July 1 and end on September 30; and the fourth quarter shall
begin on October 1 and end on December 31. (Ord. 35, 10-23-1911; amd. 1999
Code)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Established; Described: A Seal is hereby established and declared to be
the Corporate Seal of the Town. Said Seal shall be in a form and shall have the
words "Town of Valier, Pondera County, Montana" on the outer circle and on the
interior the words, "Corporate Seal".
   B.   Use Of Seal: Said Seal shall be used in all cases in which, by the laws
of the State of Montana, or the provisions of this Code, or the laws or customs
of nations, it shall be necessary to use the same.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bc8d1f2f16c7e01331ee46aea6f5ebe777bfa4c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-558.gif]
(Ord. 13, 1-30-1911)
1-5-3: BENCH MARK:
   A.   Mark Established: The southwest corner of the top of the Bedford
Granite block at the north side of the Montana Street entrance to the First
National Bank Building, which building is located on the northwest corner of
Montana Street and Teton Avenue in the Town of Valier, the elevation of which
is three thousand eight hundred fourteen and nine tenths feet (3814.9') above
mean sea level, be and the same is hereby established as the official bench
mark of the Town, and to which all street grades and sidewalk grades are hereby
referred.
   B.   Reference Marks: The curb line grades of Montana Street, beginning at
the south rail of the main line of the Montana Western Railroad and running
south to the intersection of said street with Marias Avenue, and Dupuyer Avenue
beginning at the intersection of said avenue with Montana Street and running
west to the intersection of said avenue with Lake Street, as fixed and
established by profiles made by Engineer H.J. Saunders, March 2, 1912, and
approved by the Town Council March 13, 1912, be and the same are hereby
established, as given in detail by the said profiles on file in the office of
the Town Clerk, as grades for sidewalks and street improvements on said street
and avenue respectively, within said respective boundaries, and with reference
to which all sidewalks and street improvements hereafter made shall conform.
(Ord. 44, 3-13-1912)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Qualifications
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Rules Of Procedure
1-6-5: Petitions; Filing With Clerk Required
1-6-6: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-6-7: Meeting Rules Of Conduct
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The officers shall consist of one Mayor and four (4) Council members, who must
be elected by the qualified electors as in this Code provided. (Ord. 180, 2-8-
2016, eff. 3-8-2016)
1-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Mayor: No person shall be eligible for the Office of Mayor unless he
shall be at least twenty five (25) years old and a taxpaying freeholder within
the Town limits, and a resident of the State for at least three (3) years and a
resident of the Town for a period of two (2) years next preceding his election
to said office, and he shall reside in the Town during his term of office.
(1965 Code § 1-4-4)
   B.   Council Members: No person shall be eligible to the Office of Council
member unless he shall be a taxpaying freeholder within the Town and a resident
of the Town for at least one year preceding such election. (Ord. 180, 2-8-2016,
eff. 3-8-2016)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Special; Days Specified: The Town Council shall hold
regular meetings for the transaction of Town business at least once and not
more than four (4) times per month as set by Council; and such other meetings
to which the Town Council may be adjourned or which may be called as
hereinafter provided. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or at the
request of three (3) members of the Town Council at any other time. The Town
Clerk, on their requisition, shall give reasonable notice thereof to all
members of the Council present in the Town. (Ord. 174, 4-11-2011, eff. 5-11-
2011)
   B.   Mayor To Preside: The Town Council shall convene and be called to order
by the Mayor, or in his absence, by the President of the Town Council. (Ord. 2,
1-9-1911)
   C.   Order Of Business: The order of business shall be as follows, but the
same may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote of the Town Council:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Reading and approval of minutes.
      3.   Presentation of petitions and communications.
      4.   Reports of Town officers.
      5.   Reports of standing committees.
      6.   Reports of select committee.
      7.   Introduction and reading of ordinances and resolutions in the nature
of ordinances.
      8.   Unfinished business.
      9.   Miscellaneous motions, resolutions, notices and business.
      10.   Adjournment. (Ord. 2, 1-9-1911)
1-6-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The proceedings of the Town Council shall in all cases be governed by the
following rules, unless the same be suspended temporarily by a vote of the
majority of the members present, provided no rule based upon any Statute of the
State can be suspended:
Rule 1. The Mayor, and in his absence the President of the Town Council, shall
preside at all meetings of the Town Council. The presiding officer shall
preserve order and decorum, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to
an appeal to the Town Council.
Rule 2. Every member desiring to speak shall rise and address the presiding
officer, and shall not proceed until recognized and named by the presiding
officer.
Rule 3. When more than one member rises to speak at the same time, the
presiding officer shall decide who is to speak first.
Rule 4. While a member is speaking, no other member shall interrupt him
unnecessarily, or do aught to divert his attention.
Rule 5. No member shall speak more than once on the same question until every
other member desiring to speak shall have spoken upon the question under
consideration.
Rule 6. No personalities or reflections, calculated to disturb the harmony or
decorum of the Town Council, shall be allowed. Anyone offending in this respect
shall at once be called to order by the presiding officer and shall not proceed
unless permitted to do so by the Town Council. All appeals from the decision of
the chair shall be decided without debate.
Rule 7. No motion shall be debated or put unless seconded. It shall be stated
by the presiding officer. Motions shall be reduced to writing at the request of
the presiding officer.
Rule 8. When a motion shall have been stated, it shall be deemed to be in
possession of the Town Council, but may be withdrawn by the mover with the
consent of his second at any time prior to amendment or decision.
Rule 9. When a motion embraces more than one distinct proposition, any member
may ask for a division of the question, whereupon the presiding officer shall
segregate the question as requested.
Rule 10. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums and different periods
of time are proposed, the question shall be first put on the largest sum or
longest time.
Rule 11. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be entertained
except:
   A. To fix the time to which to adjourn.
   B. To adjourn.
   C. To commit to a standing committee.
   D. To commit to a select committee.
   E. To amend.
   F. To postpone to a day certain.
   G. For the previous question.
   H. To lay on the table.
   I. To postpone indefinitely.
   J. To divide the question.
And these several motions shall have precedence in the order named, and the
motions to adjourn, to lay on the table, and for the previous question, shall
be undebatable.
Rule 12. A motion to adjourn may be made at any time, except when a member is
addressing the chair or a vote is being taken.
Rule 13. The previous question, when demanded, shall require a second by
another member of the Town Council, and when so seconded and carried, the
previous question must be put to the Town Council without debate.
Rule 14. Each member shall vote on every question submitted to the Town
Council, unless excused by the presiding officer or the Town Council, or unless
directly interested in the matter submitted; and the vote of a member so
excused, or directly interested, shall not be counted either in the affirmative
or in the negative.
Rule 15. No motion or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be submitted under color of amendment.
Rule 16. A motion for reconsideration shall be made only by a member who voted
on the prevailing side of the question and must be made at the meeting when the
matter sought to be reconsidered was adopted or rejected, except that a member
eligible to move a reconsideration of the question, may, at the meeting at
which the matter was adopted or rejected, give notice to the Town Council that
he will, at a certain time not later than the next meeting of the Town Council,
move a reconsideration of the matter, specifically describing it, in which case
the matter so sought to be reconsidered shall remain in abeyance until the time
set for a reconsideration thereof shall have elapsed, or until the motion to
reconsider shall have been finally disposed of by the Town Council.
Rule 17. In all cases the name of the person making a motion or offering a
resolution shall be entered with it on the minutes.
Rule 18. All reports, petitions or resolutions shall be reduced to writing
before being submitted to the vote of the Town Council.
Rule 19. Every paper presented by a member for consideration shall bear his
signature and all reports of committees shall be in writing and signed by a
majority of the committee, unless it be a minority report. All reports shall be
addressed "To the Mayor and Council of the Town of Valier"; and whenever
possible shall contain a statement of facts.
Rule 20. Any member may call for a division or for the ayes and noes, upon any
question, and in all cases where the ayes and noes are ordered, they shall be
recorded in the minutes.
Rule 21. Robert's Rules of Order shall govern in all cases not herein provided
for. (Ord. 2, 1-9-1911)
1-6-5: PETITIONS; FILING WITH CLERK REQUIRED:
Except by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members present, no petition or
communication addressed to the Mayor and Town Council shall be considered by
the Town Council unless the same shall have been filed with the Town Clerk at
or prior to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. next preceding the hour of the Town
Council meeting. (Ord. 2, 1-9-1911)
1-6-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Designation: All ordinances and all resolutions in the nature of
ordinances shall, upon introduction, be designated; "Bill No.      , Introduced
by      . A bill for an ordinance (or resolution as the case may be), the title
and provisions of which are as follows:".
   B.   Numbering: All such bills shall be numbered consecutively in the order
in which introduced and shall state by whom or by what committee of the Town
Council introduced. All references upon the minutes of the Town Council to any
bill under consideration shall be by its number and title; provided, that
nothing herein shall be construed as changing the ordinance provision relative
to the numbering of ordinances after passage and approval.
   C.   Bills Passed And Approved: All bills for ordinances when passed and
approved shall be called ordinances and shall be numbered consecutively in the
order passed and approved. All bills for resolutions in the nature of
ordinances when passed and approved shall be called resolutions and shall be
numbered consecutively in the order passed and approved.
   D.   Ordinance By Petition: If an ordinance be proposed by petition it shall
be given its consecutive bill number and the procedure therewith shall be the
same as though proposed by a member of the Town Council or by a committee of
the Town Council; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed as being
contrary to any of the statutes of this State.
   E.   Readings: Every ordinance and every resolution in the nature of an
ordinance proposed by bill, as provided herein, shall, upon its introduction,
be read first by its title and then at length. All ordinances and resolutions,
except resolutions for public improvement, shall be referred to the Judiciary
Committee, who shall report them back at the next meeting at the latest. Such
ordinances and resolutions shall then be passed to the third reading, which
shall be by title, and unless otherwise disposed of, placed on final passage.
   F.   Improvements; Hearing Required: Every resolution providing for public
or special improvements shall, upon its introduction, be read first by its
title and then at length and a certain date set for hearing objections to its
final adoption; it shall then be read a third time by title and passed or
rejected. Upon the date set for hearing final objections to its final adoption,
if no objections are made, it shall be read again by title and placed upon its
final passage. (Ord. 6, 1-10-1911)
   G.   Objection By Member: Any member may object to the consideration of an
ordinance or resolution after its first reading, but it shall require a two-
thirds (2/3) vote to sustain such objection. (Ord. 6, 1-10-1911; amd. 1999
Code)
   H.   Emergency Passage: No ordinance or resolution shall be passed at the
same meeting at which it is introduced unless two-thirds (2/3) of the whole
number constituting the Town Council shall vote for it.
   I.   History Noted: The Town Clerk shall note on the back of each ordinance
and resolution a brief history of every action taken upon it from its
introduction to final disposition.
   J.   Publication: All ordinances and all resolutions in the nature of
ordinances shall, after passage and approval, be published in the official
newspaper of the Town at the earliest possible time after passage and approval.
(Ord. 6, 1-10-1911)
1-6-7: MEETING RULES OF CONDUCT:
   A.   The meetings of the Town Council shall be conducted using Robert's
Rules of Order and shall be governed by the following rules:
      1.   The Mayor shall preside over all meetings of the Town Council. In
his absence the President of the Council shall preside.
      2.   After recognition by the presiding officer, those wishing to address
the Council should stand, and for the record give his/her name, address and, if
applicable, the person, firm or organization he/she represents. Comments shall
be limited to five (5) minutes, unless approved by the presiding officer.
Citizens requesting to speak shall limit him/herself to matters of fact
regarding the issue of concern.
      3.   Prepared statements are welcomed and should be given to the Clerk of
the Council. Prepared statements that are also read, however, shall be deemed
unduly repetitious. All prepared statements shall become part of the hearing
record.
      4.   All remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a body and not to
any member of the Council or staff.
      5.   A member shall not delay or interrupt the proceedings of the peace
of the Council nor disturb any member while speaking or refuse to obey the
orders of the Council or its presiding officer.
      6.   Cell phones, pagers, smart phones or other electronic communication
devices shall be put in silence mode during meetings. Persons who need to place
or receive a call are requested to leave the room.
      7.   Speakers are prohibited from using vulgar, discriminatory, profane
or impertinent speech, or personal attacks and personal accusations.
      8.   Anyone abusing this policy may be ejected from the meeting. (Ord.
185, 10-10-2018, eff. 11-10-2018)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointments
1-7-2: Terms
1-7-3: Consolidation Of Offices
1-7-1: APPOINTMENTS:
There may be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town
Council, one Town Clerk, who may be ex officio Assessor, one ex officio Street
Commissioner and any other officers necessary to carry out the provisions of
this Code. The Town Council may prescribe the duties of all Town officers and
fix their compensation. (1965 Code § 1-4-2)
1-7-2: TERMS:
The officers elected shall enter upon their duties the first Monday in January
succeeding their election, and officers appointed by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the Town Council, within ten (10) days after receiving notice of
their appointment. (1965 Code § 1-4-6; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7-3: CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES:
The Town Council may consolidate any of the offices, the appointment to which
is made by the Mayor, and may require any of the elected officers to perform
any of the duties of an appointed officer whose office has been abolished.
(1965 Code § 1-4-3)
ARTICLE A. TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created; Duties
1-7A-2: Appointment
1-7A-3: Compensation
1-7A-4: Bond Required
1-7A-5: Collections Credited To Funds
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES:
The office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby created. His duties shall be those
prescribed by the statutes of this State for the treasurer of a town, together
with any other duties which may by these ordinances be prescribed. (Ord. 4, 1-
10-1911)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Town Council. (Ord. 4, 1-10-1911)
1-7A-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be as set by the Mayor and
Town Council. (Ord. 131, 4-6-1936; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7A-4: BOND REQUIRED:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall give a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) for the faithful performance of his duties; said bond to
be executed by a duly authorized surety company, the premium thereon to be paid
by the Town. (Ord. 4, 1-10-1911; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7A-5: COLLECTIONS CREDITED TO FUNDS:
All fines, license fees or other monies which may have been heretofore or shall
be hereafter collected, unless otherwise specifically provided, shall be placed
to the credit of the General Fund of the Treasury; provided, that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to be in conflict with any law or laws of
the State. (Ord. 14, 1-30-1911)
CHAPTER 8
WARDS
(Rep. by Ord. 180, 2-8-2016, eff. 3-8-2016)
CHAPTER 9
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Bids For Contracts
1-9-2: Bonds; Appropriations
1-9-3: Purchases; Orders; Payments
1-9-4: Exemptions From Bidding Or Advertising Requirements For Certain
Contracts
1-9-5: Use Of Public Auction To Make Purchase
1-9-6: Publication Of Notice; Content; Proof
1-9-1: BIDS FOR CONTRACTS:
Competitive, advertised bidding is required for certain purchase and
construction contracts.
   A.   A contract for the purchase of any automobile, truck, other vehicle,
road machinery, other machinery, apparatus, appliances, equipment, materials or
supplies for construction, repair or maintenance shall comply with Montana Code
Annotated 7-5-4302 and 7-5-4305, except as provided in Montana Code Annotated
7-5-4303, 7-5-4310 or title 18 chapter 2, part 5. (Ord. 184, 10-10-2018, eff.
11-10-2018)
1-9-2: BONDS; APPROPRIATIONS:
All bonds shall be referred to and approved as to form by special bond counsel
employed by the Town before being referred to the Town Council for adoption of
bond resolution. No appropriation of money shall be made until first reviewed
by bond counsel. All contracts shall be first reviewed and approved by counsel
employed by the Town before being adopted by Town Council. (Ord. 173, 3-15-
2011)
1-9-3: PURCHASES; ORDERS; PAYMENTS:
All orders shall be placed by heads of departments or Town Clerk-Treasurer. In
all cases, bills against the Town shall be refused payment unless accompanied
by written purchase order approved by the Mayor and by sale or delivery slips
showing receipt of each item embodied therein. It is hereby made the duty of
the Town Clerk to return all such bills against the Town not accompanied by
such purchase orders and slips. (Ord. 173, 3-15-2011)
1-9-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING OR ADVERTISING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN
CONTRACTS:
   A.   The provisions of section
1-9-1 of this chapter as to advertisement for bids shall not apply upon the
happening of any emergency caused by fire, flood, explosion, storm, earthquake,
riot, insurrection, or other similar emergency, but in such case the Council
may proceed in any manner which, in the judgment of three-fourths (3/4) of the
members of the Council present at the meeting, duly recorded in the minutes of
the proceedings of the Council by aye and nay vote, will best meet the
emergency and serve the public interest. Such emergency shall be declared and
recorded at length in the minutes of the proceedings of the Council at the time
the vote thereon is taken and recorded.
   B.   When there are sufficient funds in the budget for supplies or
equipment, the Town may, without bid, purchase such supplies or equipment from
government agencies available to the Town when the same can be purchased by the
Town at a substantial saving to the Town. (Ord. 173, 3-15-2011)
1-9-5: USE OF PUBLIC AUCTION TO MAKE PURCHASE:
In lieu of soliciting bids, the Council may approve the purchase at public
auction of any vehicle, machinery, appliances, apparatus, building, or
materials and supplies for which must be paid a sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) or less. (Ord. 173, 3-15-2011)
1-9-6: PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; CONTENT; PROOF:
   A.   When a municipality is required to publish notice, publication must be
in a newspaper, except that in a municipality with a population of five hundred
(500) or less or in which a newspaper is not published, publication may be made
by posting in three (3) public places in the municipality that have been
designated by ordinance.
   B.   The newspaper must:
      1.   Be of general circulation;
      2.   Be published at least once a week;
      3.   Be published in the county where the municipality is located; and
      4.   Have, prior to July 1 of each year, submitted to the Town Clerk a
sworn statement that includes:
         a.   Circulation for the prior twelve (12) months;
         b.   A statement of net distribution;
         c.   Itemization of paid circulation and circulation that is free; and
         d.   The method of distribution.
   C.   A newspaper of general circulation does not include a newsletter or
other document produced or published by the municipality.
   D.   In the case of a contract award, the newspaper must have been published
continuously in the County for the twelve (12) months preceding the awarding of
the contract.
   E.   In a county where a newspaper does not meet the qualifications in
subsection B of this section, publication must be made in a qualified newspaper
in an adjacent county.
   F.   If a person is required by law or ordinance to pay for publication, the
payment must be received before the publication may be made.
   G.   The notice must be published twice, with at least six (6) days
separating each publication.
   H.   The published notice must contain:
      1.   The date, time, and place of the hearing or other action;
      2.   A brief statement of the action to be taken;
      3.   The address and telephone number of the person who may be contacted
for further information on the action to be taken; and
      4.   Any other information required by the specific section requiring
notice by publication.
   I.   A published notice required by law may be supplemented by a radio or
television broadcast of the notice in the manner prescribed in Montana Code
Annotated 2-3-105 through 2-3-107.
   J.   Proof of the publication or posting of any notice may be made by
affidavit of the owner, publisher, printer, or clerk of the newspaper or of the
person posting the notice. (Ord. 173, 3-15-2011)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Type Of Election
1-10-2: Selection Of Mayor And Council Members
1-10-3: Notice Of Elections
1-10-1: TYPE OF ELECTION:
Local government elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis. (Ord.
180, 2-8-2016, eff. 3-8-2016)
1-10-2: SELECTION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The mayor and council members shall be elected at large. (Ord. 180, 2-8-2016,
eff. 3-8-2016)
1-10-3: NOTICE OF ELECTIONS:
The county clerk and recorder shall cause notice of all elections to be
published in the official paper of the town for two (2) weeks prior to such
election, designating the place in each precinct where votes will be received,
and shall provide suitable ballot boxes as required by law. The county clerk
shall provide all poll books for the use of the judges of election, and it
shall be the duty of the county clerk to see that all ballot boxes and
everything needed by the judges of election are supplied. (Ord. 180, 2-8-2016,
eff. 3-8-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointment; Term
2-1-2: Meetings
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Duties
2-1-5: Duties Of Clerk
2-1-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is hereby created a Commission to be known and designated as the Zoning
Commission of the Town, which Commission shall consist of five (5) members to
be appointed by the Mayor, one of whom shall be a member of the Town Council,
and the other four (4) may or may not be members of the Town Council, at the
discretion of the Mayor, but must be residents of the Town. On the taking
effect of this Chapter, the Mayor shall appoint one member of the Commission to
hold office for one year, and two (2) to hold office for two (2) years, and two
(2) to hold office for three (3) years, and thereafter as each such term
expires, the Mayor shall appoint a Commissioner for the term of three (3)
years, and until his successor is appointed. Any Commissioner may be discharged
from office at any time on the request of the Mayor, and the vote of a majority
of the Town Council. (1965 Code § 2-2-1)
2-1-2: MEETINGS:
The Commission shall, when there is business to transact, hold a meeting at
least once a month, or more often as may be necessary to fulfill the duties of
the Commission. (1965 Code § 2-2-2)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
The Zoning Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions and purposes of this Chapter. It
shall hold such meetings and meet at such places from time to time and have
such hearings as the Commission or a majority thereof may determine. At the
first meeting of the Commission after the effective date hereof, the Commission
shall elect one of their number chairman, and thereafter on May 1 of each year,
the Commission shall meet and organize by electing a member to serve as
chairman for one year. (1965 Code § 2-2-3)
2-1-4: DUTIES:
The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various districts and
appropriate regulations to be enforced. It shall make a preliminary report and
hold public hearings thereon before submitting any final report to the Town
Council. The Town Council shall not hold any public hearings or take action
until it has received the final report of the Commission. (1965 Code § 2-2-4)
2-1-5: DUTIES OF CLERK:
The Town Clerk shall be ex officio Clerk of the Zoning Commission, and as such
shall attend all meetings of the Commission. He shall keep the records and
files of the Zoning Commission and shall inform it of the filing of all
applications for permits or any other matters with which the Commission may be
concerned, and shall notify the members when there is business to be attended
to. He shall perform such additional duties of a clerical nature as the Zoning
Commission may require. (1965 Code § 2-2-5; amd. 1999 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required; Fees; Term
3-1-3: Businesses Exempt
3-1-4: Duties Of The Clerk-Treasurer
3-1-5: Failure To Renew; Late Charge
3-1-6: Separate License For Multiple Businesses, Branch Establishments
3-1-7: Change Of Location
3-1-8: Posting Required
3-1-9: Unlawful Businesses
3-1-10: Refusal To Issue; License Revocation
3-1-11: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS: Any and all industries, pursuits, commercial enterprises,
occupations, professions and avocations, except those carried on in a temporary
manner by religious, charitable, fraternal, educational or like nonprofit
organization solely as projects for fund raising.
BUSINESS IN ZONE A OR B: A residence that is used to conduct business where
customers/clients do not visit the residence. The business owner goes to the
customer/client to conduct business.
BUSINESS IN ZONE C OR D: A business where the customer/client visits the
business location as defined in the Valier Zoning Regulation.
COUNCIL: The Town Council of Valier, Montana.
EMPLOYEE: All owners, proprietors, partners, managers, salesman or employees
engaged in or associated directly with the management and conduct of the
business concerned.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any association, firm or corporation organized for
religious, charitable, educational, civic, scientific or literary purposes
which does not contemplate the distribution of pecuniary gains, profits or
dividends to its members.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
TOWN: The Town of Valier, County of Pondera, State of Montana, a Municipal
corporation.
YEAR: A fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of the following
calendar year. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; TERM:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   For the protection and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
Town, it is hereby declared that every business conducted within the Town shall
not engage in business in the Town without first obtaining a business license
as hereinafter provided.
      2.   All new business license applications will be reviewed for approval
by the Town Council at the next scheduled Town meeting after application is
completed and paid. The Town Council will vote to approve any new business
license to be issued by simple majority.
      3.   Annually, during the April Town meeting, the Town Council will
review a list of all business license renewals and either approve or decline
the reissue of any business license by a vote of simple majority. The Town
Council may decide to decline any business license, whether a new application
or a renewal for any reason. If any business or businesses is/are to be
declined, a vote will be made for the approved list and another vote to decline
the businesses the Council selects for the decline list. Each list will be
voted separately.
   B.   Schedule Of Fees:
      1.   For all businesses except those listed below, the annual business
license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   For transient/itinerant retail merchants, the license fee shall be
forty dollars ($40.00).
      3.   For home businesses, the license fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
      4.   There shall be no proration of license fees.
   C.   License Renewal: All business licenses herein shall expire on June 30
of the fiscal year in which the license is issued.
   D.   Manner Of Payment: All license fees herein provided for are payable in
advance to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   E.   Term: In no case shall the license be granted for longer than one
fiscal year (July 1 to June 30). (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-3: BUSINESSES EXEMPT:
All businesses within the Town limits shall obtain a business license, unless
such person is expressly made exempt by the laws of the State from licensing
authority by the Town. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-4: DUTIES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Duties: The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain the blank Valier
business license application forms, require the applicant to complete the form,
collect the business license fees, record the transaction and issue a receipt,
include the license to be considered on the Town Council meeting agenda for the
next Town meeting and provide the application for the Council's consideration.
If approved, the Clerk-Treasurer will complete the license number, the date
issued and expires date on the application and issue the license to the
business representative within ten (10) days of the approval.
   B.   Application For License: All businesses required to be licensed by this
chapter will complete the Valier business license application provided by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. Each application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The full business name, permanent address and phone number of the
applicant.
      2.   The location or locations of the business in the Town, providing the
street address, phone number and the name of the person in charge at each
location.
      3.   The length of time a daily/transient business license will be doing
business in Town.
      4.   If the party actually applying for a license is the agent or
representative of the applicant, the full name, address and phone number of
said agent or representative, and the full name, address and phone number of
the principal, if different than that of the applicant.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to issue a business license within ten (10) days of the Town
Council's approval of the application, unless an inspection by the Pondera
County Sanitarian, the Valier Fire Department, or the Chief Operator of the
Valier Public Works Department indicates a violation of a Town ordinance, State
law, or regulation existing at the place of business sought to be licensed. A
written description of said violation specifying the steps necessary to qualify
the premises for license shall be furnished to the applicant by the Town
Council through the Town Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-
2017)
3-1-5: FAILURE TO RENEW; LATE CHARGE:
Failure to renew a business license in a timely manner shall result in the
following delinquent charges:
   A.   A business license reminder will be forwarded to each business that the
Town Council approves for continued licensing in June of the fiscal year prior
to the renewal year. Licenses are due and payable on July 1 of the current
fiscal year.
   B.   If a business license renewal is not paid prior to September 1 of the
fiscal year due, an additional charge of five dollars ($5.00) will be assessed,
and an additional five dollars ($5.00) will be added for every month beyond
September of the fiscal year due.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the Town from
suspending or revoking a business license for failure to renew said license
within twelve (12) months after the date the license fees were due. (Ord. 183,
11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-6: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR MULTIPLE BUSINESSES, BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Multiple Businesses: Any person licensed by the Town conducting more
than one business at a time shall be required to purchase a license for each
business that they operate.
   B.   Branch Establishments: A license shall be obtained in the manner herein
provided for each branch establishment or location of a business; provided,
however, that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and
incidental to a licensed business, where no sales are made, shall not be deemed
to be a branch establishment. Drive-in banking locations are not considered
separate locations for existing banking institutions. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017,
eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-7: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A licensee shall have the right to change the location of the licensed
business, provided the new location complies with the requirements of the
ordinances of the Town. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-8: POSTING REQUIRED:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the business is conducted, and any
license for a business without a fixed place of business shall be carried upon
the person of the licensee and shall be shown to any resident of the Town or
any Town official upon demand. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-9: UNLAWFUL BUSINESSES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to grant permission to
carry on or conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any business in an
unlawful manner or to grant immunity to any business from lawful regulation and
control. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
3-1-10: REFUSAL TO ISSUE; LICENSE REVOCATION:
Whenever the Town Council deems it best for the public interest to do so, it
may, by resolution passed by a majority vote of the Town Council and approved
by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk, refuse to authorize the issuance
of any license herein provided for and the Town Council hereby expressly
reserves, by resolution or affirmative vote of a majority of the Town Council
and approved by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk, the right to revoke
any and all licenses that may have been issued as herein provided when it shall
deem best for the public interest to do so. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-
2017)
3-1-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Every person who commences or carries on a business,
trade, profession or occupation for the transaction or carrying on of which a
license is required by the provisions of this chapter without procuring a
license as herein prescribed, or who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every person carrying on or engaging in the
transaction of any business for which a license is required, without first
procuring the proper license therefor, and any person making material
misrepresentations or omissions in an application for a license shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by a fine
of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per infraction. (Ord. 183, 11-13-2017, eff. 12-13-2017)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required; Fee
3-2-2: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
3-2-3: Revocation Of License
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
A person who desires to engage in the business of manufacturing, selling or
distribution of beer under the provisions of State law in the character of
places hereinafter mentioned, shall, notwithstanding the fact that the person
conducting such place has obtained a license from the Montana Liquor Control
Board, first apply for and obtain a license therefor from the Town, as herein
provided, and if such license is granted, shall pay therefor an annual license
fee as follows:
 
Wholesaler                                               $ 200.00
Retailer                                                 200.00
Any unit of a nationally chartered veterans organization 50.00
 
(Ord. 152; amd. 1999 Code)
Payment of wholesale beer license will be permitted as follows:
 
$100.00 on January 1
100.00 on July 1
 
Due on date indicated with no exceptions. (1965 Code § 5-2-1; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2-2: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: All beer halls shall close at least by two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. of each day and remain closed until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of
the same day. (Ord. 130, 2-3-1936)
   B.   Location Restriction: It shall be and is hereby made unlawful for any
tavern or bar to operate or sell intoxicating liquor south of the center line
of Teton Avenue. (Ord. 414, 12-17-1945)
3-2-3: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any license issued by the Montana Liquor Control Board, under the provision
of the "Montana Beer Act", shall be revoked or shall be suspended, the
accompanying license issued under this Chapter shall be automatically revoked
and suspended for the same period, and in such event the action of the Montana
Liquor Control Board shall, upon appeal, be modified or set aside, the
suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder shall likewise be
automatically affected. (Ord. 152)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE, REFUSE, WEEDS AND VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Enforcement Authorizations
4-1-3: Collection; License Or Contract
4-1-4: Reserved
4-1-5: Schedule For Collection
4-1-6: Containers
4-1-7: Designation Of Sanitary Landfill
4-1-8: Maintenance Of Private Property
4-1-9: Abatement And Mitigation
4-1-10: Appeal Process
4-1-11: Pedestrian And Motorist Regulations
4-1-12: Vehicles Transporting Loose Material
4-1-13: Unlawful Disposal
4-1-14: Burning And Burying Litter
4-1-15: Solid Waste Disposal And Storage Facilities At New Buildings
4-1-16: Construction/Demolition Projects
4-1-17: Disposal Of Dead Animal And Animal Related Issues
4-1-18: Penalty
4-1-19: Policy For Warnings
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this chapter, unless the context
otherwise requires, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
COLLECTOR: The person holding a license or contract with the town and
authorized to collect, handle, transport and dispose of refuse and wastes.
COMMUNITY DECAY: A public nuisance that is in the "public view", and is created
by allowing rubble, debris, junk, junk vehicles, refuse, noxious or other
weeds, grass, or other wild and uncared for vegetation of whatever character to
remain on any property in excess of seven (7) days. Said public nuisance can
exist along the right of way of any railway, street, road, public place, or
private place, and may result in conditions that are injurious to health,
offensive to the senses, or obstruct the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is inoperable and/or unlicensed, has an expired
registration or is unable to be used as designed. Junk vehicles must be
shielded from public view behind a fence or in a structure.
LITTER: Trash, or the act of unlawful disposal of trash.
NOXIOUS WEEDS: All rank vegetable growth of every kind and nature, including,
but not limited to, dandelions and all weeds known as Canada thistle, Scotch
bull thistle, Russian thistle, sow thistle, quack grass, leafy spurge, Russian
knapweed, spotted knapweed, hoary cress, dodder, beggar's lice, downy brome
(cheat) grass, foxtail barley, whitetop, kochia or any similar unwanted
vegetation, including grass, clover and other vegetation over ten inches (10")
in height.
NUISANCE: A. Anything which is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or which unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use of any public park, street, alley or highway
is a nuisance.
   B.   A public nuisance is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
OPERABLE VEHICLE: A vehicle capable of moving under its own power in both
directions (forward and reverse). The vehicle has to move forward for the
length of one block (for example from 7th to 8th Street). A demonstration of
this ability may be required at the mayor's discretion.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation,
city, town, or any other entity whether organized for profit or not.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Includes, but is not limited to, the following exterior
locations owned by private individuals: grounds, driveways, entranceways,
passageways, parking areas, working areas, storage areas, vacant lots, and
recreation facilities.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Includes, but is not limited to, the following exterior
locations: street, roads, sidewalks, strips between streets and sidewalks,
alleys, public rights of way, public parking lots, school grounds, public
housing, project grounds, public vacant lots, parks and playgrounds.
PUBLIC VIEW: Any point viewable from any public road, alley or from any public
walkway.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any lot, tract, or acreage being:
   A.   One-half (1/2) acre or less in size having a dwelling upon it; or
   B.   Any vacant lot one-half (1/2) acre or less in size adjacent to property
having a dwelling upon it.
SOLID WASTE: All wastes capable or incapable of rotting, including, but not
limited to:
   A.   Municipal and domestic waste such as garbage and putrescible organic
materials, paper, cardboard, cloth, glass, metal, plastics, street sweepings,
yard and garden waste, ashes, dead animals, discarded appliances, construction
and demolition wastes, discarded home and wood products or wood byproducts.
   B.   Commercial and industrial wastes such as packing materials, liquid or
solid industrial process wastes which are chemically or biologically
decomposable, crop residues, manure, chemical fertilizers and emptied pesticide
containers.
   C.   Inert wastes, which include, but are not limited to, vehicle tires.
UNCARED FOR VEGETATION: Vegetation (not shrubs or trees) in a residential area
that exceeds ten inches (10") above the soil level. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff.
11-9-2016)
4-1-2: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZATIONS:
The town of Valier shall be the lead enforcement agency for this chapter. It
shall receive and document all citizen complaints related to this chapter. The
mayor and public works department shall work cooperatively with the departments
listed below to enforce this chapter. The departments listed in this section
shall have the authority to cite violators and file sworn complaints in justice
court for violations of this chapter:
   A.   Town of Valier;
   B.   Law enforcement department;
   C.   Fire department;
   D.   Pondera County sanitation department;
   E.   Town of Valier attorney. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-3: COLLECTION; LICENSE OR CONTRACT:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business
of collecting, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the streets
or alleys of the town, or to dump or dispose of the same, unless and until such
person is licensed therefor or has a contract therefor as an authorized
representative of the town.
   B.   Authority Of Town: The mayor and town council shall have sole authority
to license or contract for the performance of all services pertaining to refuse
collection and disposal. All rules, regulations and conduct of operations and
all fees as provided for in this chapter shall be as determined and prescribed
by the mayor and town council. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-5: SCHEDULE FOR COLLECTION:
The town council shall designate the time and schedule for the collection of
garbage and rubbish. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-6: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any place
where garbage or rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep or
cause to be kept portable appurtenances consisting of metal or other approved
type of containers for the deposit therein of rubbish and garbage.
   B.   Size; Condition: Such containers shall consist of not more than two (2)
30-gallon cans covered with a metal cover and kept in a sanitary condition,
with the inside and outside thereof washed at such time as to keep the same
free and clean of all accumulated grease and decomposing material and so that
no odor nuisance shall exist. All garbage or refuse cans shall be placed in a
place accessible to the collector. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-7: DESIGNATION OF SANITARY LANDFILL:
A licensed solid waste sanitary landfill site is hereby established as the only
area where "solid waste", as herein defined, may be disposed of. The solid
waste sanitary landfill site shall be designated from time to time by the north
Montana refuse disposal district. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-8: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, occupant or lessee to keep
his/her exterior private property free of litter, noxious weeds and any junk,
inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered vehicles. This requirement applies
not only to removal of loose litter, but to materials that already are, or
become, trapped at such locations as fence and wall bases, grassy and planted
areas, borders, embankments and other lodging points.
   B.   Owners, agents, occupants or lessees whose properties face on town
sidewalks and strips between streets and sidewalks shall be responsible for
keeping those sidewalks and strips free of litter, noxious weeds, snow and ice.
   C.   All persons owning, occupying or being in control of property fronting
on any alley of the town of Valier shall keep the portion of said alley between
the centerline thereof and the property line of such property and fronting on
such property free from solid waste, litter, noxious weeds or any other solid
waste material including junk, inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered
vehicles.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every nonresident owner of a vacant lot or
other vacant property to appoint a resident agent who shall have responsibility
for keeping that lot or other property free of solid waste, litter, noxious
weeds, or any solid waste material including junk, inoperable, unlicensed and/
or unregistered vehicles.
   E.   Every person owning or in charge or control of any vacant building
within the town limits of the town of Valier shall barricade or permanently
secure all windows, doors, and other openings which are available for access by
transients or trespassers.
   F.   Upon vacating or abandoning any premises within the town of Valier, the
occupant thereof shall remove any and all noxious, hazardous, or solid waste
material which has been deposited, allowed to come to rest, or permitted to
accumulate thereon, and such vacated premises shall be left in a clean and neat
condition.
   G.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, occupant or lessee to keep
his/her property free of community decay. It shall be unlawful for a property
owner or occupant to allow community decay within the public view including
junk, inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered vehicles. (Ord. 182, 10-10-
2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-9: ABATEMENT AND MITIGATION:
The abatement or mitigation of conditions which constitute a public nuisance
prohibited by this chapter shall be accomplished under the provisions of this
section.
   A.   Upon its own initiative, or within thirty (30) days of receiving a
written, signed complaint that a condition of community decay exists, the
department shall inspect the subject property to determine whether there is a
violation of this chapter.
   B.   If it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter, the Town
of Valier shall notify the owner, manager, or lessee of the property, or other
responsible party as required by this section of the violation and order its
abatement or mitigation within thirty (30) days. The notice of the violation
shall:
      1.   Include a statement specifically describing the violation;
      2.   Specify that the owner, manager, or lessee, or other responsible
party that if the violation is not resolved, the Town of Valier may undertake
abatement or mitigation and assess the costs to the owner;
      3.   Advise the owner, manager, or lessee, or other responsible party
that if the violation is not resolved the Town of Valier may undertake
abatement or mitigation and assess the cost to the owner; and
      4.   If the owner, manager, or lessee of the property, or other
responsible party can be reasonably determined and located, then the Town of
Valier shall notify that person or those persons by certified mail return
receipt requested. If the owner, manager, or lessee of the property, or other
responsible party cannot be determined after a diligent search of public
records, then the Mayor may authorize the town of Valier to give notice of the
violation by prominently posting a notice on or near the property and
publishing a notice in a local newspaper once a week for two (2) consecutive
weeks. The last date of publication shall be not less than five (5) days prior
to any action taken by the town of Valier. The notice shall include the name of
the last known owner, legal description and commonly known address of the
property, and a description of the violation. The notice shall also state that
if a violation is not resolved within thirty (30) days of the date of the first
publication, the Town of Valier may undertake abatement or mitigation without
further notice and assess the cost to the last known owner of the property.
   C.   Within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice of violation, the owner,
manager or lessee, or other responsible party may submit a plan to the Valier
Town Council which shall include:
      1.   A complete description of the plan to be undertaken;
      2.   The date for commencement of the corrective action; and
      3.   A date for completion of the corrective action. An extension may be
granted at the discretion of the Valier Town Council.
   D.   The Valier Town Council may accept or reject the plan, accept the plan
with modifications, or request additional information before making a final
determination.
   E.   The owner, manager, or lessee, or other responsible party may appeal
the Valier Town Council's final decision according to the procedure set forth
in section
4-1-10 . (Ord. 193, 5-13-2024)
4-1-10: APPEAL PROCESS:
An alleged violator may appeal the Valier Town Council's decision in writing
via certified mail to the Valier Town Council within ten (10) days of the
Valier Town Council's final decision regarding.
   A.   A determination that a community decay violation exists;
   B.   Rejection of a corrective action plan; or
   C.   A fine for noncompliance.
The Town Council shall hold a hearing within forty-five (45) days from the date
that the appeal was received. The Town Council shall, in writing, affirm,
modify, or withdrawal the Town's decision within thirty (30) days after the
hearing. Once an appeal for a hearing has been made, the Town's decision shall
be stayed until the Town Council has held the hearing and affirmed modification
or withdrawn the determination of the Town. The Town Council will issue an
order of the Town Council's findings signed by the Mayor. The order shall
include what, if any, corrective actions are required, the time period for the
corrective actions, and that the Town of Valier is authorized to remedy the
violation and assess costs to the responsible party.
If a violator fails to resolve a violation upon order of the Town Council, the
Town shall be authorized to remedy the violation, and assess costs to the
property owner, manager, or lessee, or other responsible party. In the event
that the violator does not appeal the Town Council's decision and fails to
resolve the violation, the Town will bring the matter before the Town Council
for authorization to complete the corrective action, and assess costs to the
property owner, manager or lessee, or other responsible party. If the
assessment is not paid, it shall become a lien on the property and may be
enforced as a nonpayment of property taxes. (Ord. 193, 5-13-2024)
4-1-11: PEDESTRIAN AND MOTORIST REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to throw, discard, place or deposit solid
waste (including litter) within the town limits except in containers provided
for that purpose.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every person distributing leaflets, fliers,
signage, etc., to take necessary measures to keep such materials from littering
public and/or private property.
   C.   To facilitate proper disposal of litter by pedestrians and motorists,
such publicly patronized or used establishments and institutions shall provide
and maintain sufficient solid waste containers. This requirement is applicable
to, but not limited to, restaurants, taverns, convenience stores, grocery
stores, service stations, public accommodation establishments and schools.
(Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-12: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING LOOSE MATERIAL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, institution or
organization to transport any solid waste material by motor vehicle within the
town limits, unless the load is covered and secured in such a manner as to
prevent depositing litter on public and/or private property.
   B.   The duty and responsibility imposed by subsection A of this section
shall be applicable alike to the owner of the vehicle, the operator thereof,
and the person, firm, corporation, institution or organization from whose
residence or establishment the cargo originated. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff.
11-9-2016)
4-1-13: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of solid waste any place
other than an approved and licensed site. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-
2016)
4-1-14: BURNING AND BURYING LITTER:
   A.   No person shall burn any solid waste material within any yard or open
space within the town limits of the town of Valier, unless a burn permit has
been obtained from the fire department.
   B.   No person shall burn any material in a residential solid fuel burning
device, except black and white newspaper, untreated wood and lumber, and
products manufactured for use as fuel for said residential solid fuel burning
device.
   C.   No person shall bury any solid waste material within any yard or open
space within the town limits. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-15: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AND STORAGE FACILITIES AT NEW BUILDINGS:
   A.   Before building permits shall be issued for construction of commercial
buildings and multiple-dwelling units, plans for the adequacy, location and
accessibility of solid waste containerization must be approved by the county
sanitation department. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-16: CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION PROJECTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor to have on the
site adequate containers for the disposal of litter during or after completion
of the construction or demolition project and to make appropriate arrangements
for the collection thereof or for transport by himself to a licensed landfill
site for final disposition. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-17: DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMAL AND ANIMAL RELATED ISSUES:
   A.   All persons situated within a residential area, who keep and maintain
domestic animals upon their premises shall be responsible for the regular
removal of manure, animal litter, and other items hazardous to the public
health.
   B.   Manure or other organic solid waste classified as composted or
reconstituted may be used within residential land use areas for gardening or
yard purposes in a manner so as not to cause a public nuisance. (Ord. 182, 10-
10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
4-1-18: PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter by doing any act forbidden or by failing to perform any duty imposed
therein, and any such act or omission shall be deemed a misdemeanor and
punishable by a two hundred dollar ($200.00) fine.
   B.   Should an owner or occupant of real property fail to remove a vehicle
including junk, inoperable, unlicensed and/or unregistered vehicles from the
property within seven (7) days after receipt of notice from the town of Valier
as provided herein, the motor vehicle will be impounded by the Pondera County
sanitation department or other agent of the town.
   C.   In addition to a fine, the court may order the owner to abate the
condition. If abatement does not occur on or before the date set by the court,
the agency may undertake abatement and levy the cost thereof on the next
assessment for the property. Should the town be required to take judicial
action to force an owner or occupant of real property to abate any of the
conditions described herein, the court shall assess reasonable attorney fees
and costs against the property owner.
   D.   Should an owner or occupant of real property fail to remedy or abate a
noxious weed or vegetation problem within seven (7) days after receipt of
notice from the town of Valier as provided herein, the town of Valier will
abate the condition and the owner of the real property will be assessed a cost
of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per town lot. The assessment shall
become a lien upon the property.
   E.   Each and every day during which a violation continues, except in cases
in which a given time, in writing, has been allowed for corrective action to be
taken, shall be a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff.
11-9-2016)
4-1-19: POLICY FOR WARNINGS:
It is the general policy of the town of Valier to give any person a warning
prior to commencing formal enforcement action. However, in the event the
condition necessitates immediate action, it is understood that no warning is
required. (Ord. 182, 10-10-2016, eff. 11-9-2016)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED CONTAINERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Removal Of Locking Device Required
4-2-1: REMOVAL OF LOCKING DEVICE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device. (1965 Code § 6-4-1)
CHAPTER 3
PLASTIC BAGS OR COVERINGS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Warning Required
4-3-3: Nuisance Declared Without Warning
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
The words "plastic covering", "plastic bag", or "plastic package", when used in
this Chapter, shall mean any covering, package or bag made of plastic material
sufficiently thin and pliable to respond to static electricity created by
contact with the human body to the extent that it clings to the human skin or
body. (1965 Code § 6-7-1)
4-3-2: WARNING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, or to deliver as
a cover or wrapper, any plastic bag that is of sufficient size to fit over a
child's head, or any bag which, when open, has an opening larger than twenty
five (25) square inches or a capacity of more than one hundred twenty five
(125) cubic inches, unless there is at all times clearly printed on such bag or
covering, or on a paper attached to such bag or covering, words in letters at
least one-quarter inch (1/4") high as follows:
WARNING:   To avoid danger of suffocation keep this bag (or covering) away from
babies and children. Do not use in cribs, beds, carriages or play pens. This is
not a toy.
(1965 Code § 6-7-2)
4-3-3: NUISANCE DECLARED WITHOUT WARNING:
Any plastic bag, covering or package not carrying or accompanied by the printed
warning as provided in Section
4-3-2 of this Chapter is hereby declared a nuisance. (1965 Code § 6-7-3)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established; Appointments
5-1-2: Administration
5-1-3: Membership
5-1-4: Meetings
5-1-5: Duties At Fires
5-1-6: False Alarms
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENTS:
There shall be established a Volunteer Fire Department under the direction of
the Town Council. There shall be a Chief of the Fire Department and one
assistant Chief, to be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Town
Council. (1965 Code § 3-1-1)
5-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Fire Chief: The Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for
the organization and efficiency of the Department, for the instruction and
practice of the members of the Department and for all meetings held by the
same. It shall be his duty to report to the Town Council any matter regarding
the efficiency of the Department, the delinquency of its members or their
failure to perform their duties or comply with its regulations, and also to
bring to the attention of the Mayor and Town Council any defects of apparatus
of the Department. The Chief shall have direction and command of all members of
the Department at fires and of all citizens who volunteer any actual service at
fires, and shall attend to the organization of squads to attend the chemical
apparatus, and to attend the fire engine and the hose carts, and shall appoint
nozzlemen as may be necessary. In general, the Chief shall have the power to do
all acts, subject to the regulations of the Town Council, necessary for the
best organization and efficiency of the Department. He shall hold his office at
the pleasure of the Town Council. (1965 Code § 3-1-4)
   B.   Assistant Chief: The assistant to the Chief shall receive and give
orders, and shall take and assume the duties of the Chief in his absence. When
present with the Chief, he shall become his lieutenant and see that his orders
and instructions are obeyed. (1965 Code § 3-1-5)
5-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number: The Fire Department shall consist of a maximum of twenty (20)
volunteer members, inclusive of the Chief and assistant. (1965 Code § 3-1-2;
amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Application: All persons desiring to become a member of the Department,
other than the Chief and assistant, shall present application in writing to the
Town Council for their approval and become members upon such approval. (1965
Code § 3-1-3; amd. 1999 Code)
5-1-4: MEETINGS:
The Fire Department shall have two (2) meetings per month as follows:
   A.   Business: One meeting for business.
   B.   Drill: One meeting for drill. (1965 Code § 3-1-7)
5-1-5: DUTIES AT FIRES:
It shall be the duty of the Chief to immediately proceed to the scene of the
fire and to determine the most feasible method of fighting the same. It shall
be the duty of the assistant to proceed immediately upon summons to the Fire
Hall and to cause the equipment to be promptly brought to the scene of the
fire, and where necessary, into action. (1965 Code § 3-1-6)
5-1-6: FALSE ALARMS:
The sounding of any fire alarm or the calling of fire within the corporate
limits, mischievously or maliciously, or without reasonable cause to believe
that there is danger or presence of fire, is hereby prohibited. (1965 Code § 3-
1-8)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
For the purpose of regulating and governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire, the Fire Prevention Code, current edition, as recommended
by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, is hereby adopted. Said Fire
Prevention Code, three (3) copies of which shall be on file at all times in the
office of the Town Clerk, shall be made a part of this Code as if set out at
length herein. (1965 Code § 7-1-1; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE LIMITS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Portion Included
5-3-1: PORTION INCLUDED:
All the land within the boundaries of the Town, including Railroad Avenue and
north to include Blocks 128, 129 and 130. (Ord. 9, 1-16-1911; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Defined
5-4-2: Sale Of Fireworks; Dates Specified
5-4-3: Prohibited Fireworks
5-4-1: DEFINED:
"Fireworks" shall mean any combustible or explosive material combined in such a
manner as to produce lights or flashes of light or explosive noises for display
or amusement. (Ord. 177, 9-10-2012, eff. 10-10-2012)
5-4-2: SALE OF FIREWORKS; DATES SPECIFIED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose for sale or sell
any firecrackers, torpedoes or any fireworks of a noisemaking or detonating
character by whatsoever name known or called within seven (7) days prior to and
after July 5. (Ord. 177, 9-10-2012, eff. 10-10-2012)
5-4-3: PROHIBITED FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or explode any fireworks, except as
described in this chapter.
It shall be lawful to explode legal fireworks allowed in the most recent
Montana state code on the following dates and times:
   July 1 until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   July 2 until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   July 3 until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   July 4 until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   July 5 until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
New Year's Eve until twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. the following day.
From time to time special exceptions may be allowed by unanimous vote of the
Valier town council. (Ord. 177, 9-10-2012, eff. 10-10-2012)
CHAPTER 5
EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Prohibited Explosives
5-5-2: Exception Permitted
5-5-1: PROHIBITED EXPLOSIVES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, keep or transport any gunpowder,
nitroglycerin or other highly explosive substance within the limits of the
Town. (1965 Code § 7-3-1)
5-5-2: EXCEPTION PERMITTED:
A vehicle carrying explosives may be permitted on the streets of the Town only
if a special written permit has first been obtained from the County Sheriff;
such permit shall specify the exact route to be used by said vehicle and may
permit the vehicle to be parked at a certain specified place for a certain
specified amount of time. Each such permit shall be valid only for the one
specified use. (1965 Code § 7-3-2; amd. 1999 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Criminal Code Adopted
6-1-2: Aid To An Offense
6-1-3: Arson
6-1-4: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
6-1-5: Beer; Procuring Or Selling To Minors
6-1-6: Cruelty To Animals
6-1-7: Deposits Of Injurious Material On Thoroughfares
6-1-8: Disorderly Conduct
6-1-9: Disturbing The Peace
6-1-10: Drunkenness
6-1-11: Encouraging Delinquency
6-1-12: False Pretenses
6-1-13: False Representation
6-1-14: Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of Admission Fees
6-1-15: Giving Assistance To Police Officers
6-1-16: Indecent Exposure
6-1-17: Keeping Of Junk Restricted
6-1-18: Lottery (Rep. by Ord. 203, 5-12-2025)
6-1-19: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
6-1-20: Lug Wheels Prohibited
6-1-21: Malicious Injury To Property
6-1-22: Mufflers; Unnecessary Noise
6-1-23: Nuisances Defined
6-1-24: Obscene Conduct
6-1-25: Petit Larceny
6-1-26: Playing Ball On Streets Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 197, 5-12-2025)
6-1-27: Resisting An Officer
6-1-28: Sale Of Cigarettes Or Tobacco To Minors
6-1-29: Trespassing
6-1-30: Unlawful Assembly (Rep. by Ord. 198, 5-12-2025)
6-1-31:    Vagrancy (Rep. by Ord. 199, 6-16-2025)
6-1-32: Water Flowing Upon Streets (Rep. by Ord. 200, 5-12-2025)
6-1-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of the purposes or penalty as provided,
all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Montana Criminal Code (title 45), as amended, are hereby
adopted by the Town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this Chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this Chapter if proceeded hereunder. (1999
Code)
6-1-2: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined. (1965 Code § 6-1-2)
6-1-3: ARSON:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "arson", which is hereby defined
as to maliciously and deliberately set fire to or burn or cause to be burned,
or aid, counsel or procure the burning of any dwelling or other valuable
property either by himself or others. (1965 Code § 6-1-3)
6-1-4: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence or
any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire or to use barbed wire
as a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land. (1965 Code § 6-1-6)
6-1-5: BEER; PROCURING OR SELLING TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, sell, or give away any beer to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise
procure, consume or have in his possession any beer. (1965 Code § 6-1-7)
6-1-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or beat cruelly, starve or
otherwise ill treat any animal in his care or charge, whether belonging to
himself or any other person. (1965 Code § 6-1-8)
6-1-7: DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person or
property. (1965 Code § 6-1-9)
6-1-8: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting or immoral conduct or behavior. (1965 Code § 6-1-10)
6-1-9: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises
or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(1965 Code § 6-1-12)
6-1-10: DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other public
place. (1965 Code § 6-1-13)
6-1-11: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
It shall be unlawful for an person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid or
cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities; and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a drivers' license
of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to operate a
motor vehicle during the period that such drivers' license is suspended. (1965
Code § 6-1-14)
6-1-12: FALSE PRETENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise. (1965 Code § 6-1-17)
6-1-13: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself to be an
officer of the Town or who shall attempt to impersonate any such officer or who
shall without authority perform any official act therein on behalf of an
officer. (1965 Code § 6-1-18)
6-1-14: FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement. (1965 Code § 6-1-19)
6-1-15: GIVING ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of eighteen (18) years
to refuse or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called
upon for such assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful
assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed an offense. (1965
Code § 6-1-23)
6-1-16: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place or in any such place to
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof or the
private parts of another or to conduct himself in a lewd or lascivious manner
or to appear in any such place in a dress not belonging to his sex. (1965 Code
§ 6-1-26)
6-1-17: KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any schoolhouse, church, public parks, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same. (1965 Code § 6-1-27)
6-1-18: LOTTERY:
(Rep. by Ord. 203, 5-12-2025)
6-1-19: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound truck,
loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or sound
amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the County deputy to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (1965 Code § 6-1-30;
amd. 1999 Code)
6-1-20: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (1965 Code § 6-1-31)
6-1-21: MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to injure, deface,
mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or molest or
secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or under the
control of any person. (1965 Code § 6-1-32)
6-1-22: MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall not
at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and it shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a
cut-out, by-pass or similar muffler elimination appliance. (1965 Code § 6-1-34)
6-1-23: NUISANCES DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or indecent or offensive
to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is declared a nuisance and
as such shall be abated. (1965 Code § 6-1-35)
6-1-24: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animal. (1965 Code § 6-1-36)
6-1-25: PETIT LARCENY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "petit larceny", which is hereby
defined as a larceny when the property taken is of a value not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50.00). (1965 Code § 6-1-37)
6-1-26: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 197, 5-12-2025)
6-1-27: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere wilfully with, resist, delay,
obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer of the Town in the exercise
of his official duties. (1965 Code § 6-1-40)
6-1-28: SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, any cigarettes,
tobacco or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a
cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors. (1965 Code § 6-1-
42; amd. 1999 Code)
6-1-29: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down any
bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent
of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (1965 Code § 6-1-44)
6-1-30: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
(Rep. by Ord. 198, 5-12-2025)
6-1-31: VAGRANCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 199, 6-16-2025)
6-1-32: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 200, 5-12-2025)
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-2-1: Loitering Of Minors Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 201, 5-12-2025)
6-2-2: Responsibility Of Parents
6-2-3: Separate Offense Each Violation
6-2-1: LOITERING OF MINORS PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 201, 5-12-2025)
6-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS:
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of a minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to knowingly
permit such minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment,
between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M., Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day, and between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Friday and Saturday, and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. the following day; provided however, that the provisions of this
Section do not apply when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
his parent, guardian and other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor. (1965 Code § 6-6-2)
6-2-3: SEPARATE OFFENSE EACH VIOLATION:
Each violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. (1965 Code §§ 6-6-1, 6-6-2)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Licensing Of Dogs And Cats
6-3-2: Running At Large; Animals
6-3-3: Rabies Control
6-3-4: Impounding
6-3-5: Prohibited Acts And Activities
6-3-6: Vicious Dogs
6-3-7: Temporary Permits
6-3-8: Penalty
6-3-1: LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any resident to own, harbor,
keep or possess a dog or cat without first procuring a license as provided by
this chapter; provided however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to any person visiting in the town for a period of not exceeding thirty
(30) days and owning or possessing a dog or cat currently licensed and bearing
a license issued by another municipality or another licensing authority. Owners
of service dogs shall be required to obtain a license, but shall be exempt for
the payment of fees.
   B.   Application For License: The owner or person having charge of any dog
or cat shall make application to the town treasurer and provide such
information as may be required, which shall include the type of dog and/or cat,
the sex, the coloring and the name of the dog or cat. If the dog or cat is a
spayed female, a statement of a licensed veterinarian verifying that fact must
accompany the application.
   C.   Fee For License: Application for dog or cat license must be accompanied
by fees as set by council. A regular license fee shall be charged for the first
two (2) dogs and first two (2) cats. An additional surcharge for each dog or
cat after the first two (2) shall be paid at the time of licensing and annually
upon renewal of license.
   D.   Issuance Of License; Term: All dog and/or cat licenses shall be issued
for the calendar year January 1 through December 31 and each license shall
expire on the last day of such calendar year. Upon receipt of an application
and payment of the required fees, the town treasurer shall issue a receipt
designating the owner's name, the number of the license to be issued and the
amount paid. At the same time, the town treasurer shall issue a metal tag
bearing the number corresponding to the number on the receipt and such tag
shall be known as the license.
   E.   Collar; Tag:
      1.   Required: Every dog and/or cat shall at all times wear a substantial
and durable collar or harness to which the required license shall be securely
attached.
      2.   In the event a dog or cat is trapped in the process of removing
feral cats; the owner will be notified.
      3.   Lost Tag; Fee: Upon satisfactory proof that a license tag has been
lost, a new tag of a different number may be issued upon the payment as set by
council and the transaction shall be noted upon the town office file for the
number originally issued.
   F.   All trapped dogs or cats will be held for twenty-four (24) hours to
provide time to claim the dog and/or cat. After twenty-four (24) hours
euthanasia will take place. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009; amd. Ord. 179, 11-14-2013,
eff. 12-14-2013; Ord. 186, 2-8-2021, eff. 3-8-2021)
6-3-2: RUNNING AT LARGE; ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, to permit or allow any
animal belonging to him or under his control, to run at large.
   B.   Dogs:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or permit
any dog, whether licensed or not, to be or remain upon the streets or alleys of
the town or in any public place in the town, unless:
         a.   Such dog be in the charge of a person or controlled by a leash;
or unless
         b.   Such dog is confined in a motor vehicle.
      2.   Fine: A fine will be levied against the owner of said dog or dogs in
the amount as set by council. Any person not paying these fines will be held in
contempt of court. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
6-3-3: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Required: All licensed or unlicensed dogs within the town
must be vaccinated annually preventing a possible outbreak of rabies in the
town.
   B.   Quarantine; Disposition: The town or designee shall have authority to
order the owner of any dog showing symptoms of rabies or of any dog which has
bitten any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin, to subject such dog
to the pound for quarantine for a period of not to exceed fifteen (15) days,
and if such dog shall be determined free of rabies the same shall be returned
to the owner.
   C.   Afflicted; Destruction: Any dog afflicted with rabies shall be disposed
of immediately, either by the owner or by the town or designee. (Ord. 170, 10-
14-2009)
6-3-4: IMPOUNDING:
The town or designee may impound any and all animals found running at large in
the streets, alleys or other public places or other premises, whether such
animal so running at large is owned or harbored by a person residing within the
corporate limits or elsewhere. The town or designee may impound any and all
dogs without collars bearing licenses as required herein; provided, that when a
dog wearing a collar bearing a license tag of the preceding year is taken up,
the town or designee shall notify the owner or representative of the owner, if
such owner or representative can be found. The owner or representative of the
owner of any dog which may be taken up and impounded under the provisions of
this chapter, may recover possession of such dog upon payment to the town or
designee of the license fee and upon payment of fees and costs of impound. If
the owner or representative of the owner of any dog taken up and impounded
under the provisions of this chapter shall fail to pay the license fee and the
costs and fees related to this chapter as set by council within five (5) days
after such notice has been given, the town or designee may dispose of such dog
by:
   A.   Delivering the same to any person who will pay the license and the
costs and fees herein provided.
   B.   Destroying such dog in a humane manner. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
6-3-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Bovine, Equine, Fowl, Ovine And Swine: It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, harbor or maintain within the corporate limits any bovine,
equine, fowl, ovine and swine; provided however, that for the purpose of
loading and shipping of any such animal, it shall be lawful to keep the same in
loading pens provided for that purpose. No such animal shall be kept within the
corporate limits for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours, except by
written permission of the mayor.
   B.   Other Animals Prohibited: Exotic animals shall be prohibited within the
town of Valier incorporated limits. "Exotic animals" shall be defined as any
nonindigenous feline, nonhuman primate, nonindigenous bear, wolves, and
nonindigenous dogs except domestic dogs, any unusual pets such as mammals,
birds, or reptiles, and any nontraditional livestock such as reindeer, ostrich
and emu, water buffalo, and American bison among others.
   C.   Offensive Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person within the town
limits to keep or maintain any pen, enclosure, or building for dogs in such a
filthy condition as to be offensive to neighbors or passersby, or injurious to
the health of the neighborhood.
   D.   Nuisance Dogs: It is unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any
dog, which by loud and frequent barking, howling or yelping or by any other
manner or way causes any annoyance or disturbance to any person in the town.
   E.   Kennels Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain commercial
kennels within the town limits or to keep, maintain or breed female dogs within
the town limits for the primary purpose of obtaining the young therefrom and
selling said young. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
   F.   Number Of Dogs: (Rep. by Ord. 179, 11-14-2013, eff. 12-14-2013)
   G.   Animal Waste: The owner of an animal shall be responsible for the
immediate removal of any excreta deposited by his animal on any public walk,
recreation area or private property. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
6-3-6: VICIOUS DOGS:
Whenever affidavit be made before the town that any dog or other domestic
animal has bitten any person in the town and that the person so bitten was not
at the time trespassing or injuring the person or property of the owner or
possessor of the dog or other domestic animal, the town or designee shall issue
an order directing the owner or possessor of the dog or other domestic animal
to turn it over to the town or designee within twenty four (24) hours after
receiving such order. If the owner or possessor cannot be found at his place of
residence, the order may be served by leaving it with any person found at said
residence or by placing it in a prominent place on the front door of such
residence. In the event that the owner is unknown or that the owner or
possessor shall refuse or neglect to turn over said dog or other domestic
animal within twenty four (24) hours after receiving such order, it shall be
the duty of the town or designee to seize and impound said dog at a licensed
veterinarian's hospital at the owner's expense. If the owner or possessor
refuses or neglects to turn over said dog or other domestic animal to the town
or designee within twenty four (24) hours after receiving such order, said
owner or possessor shall be guilty of violating this chapter. If said dog or
other domestic animal is suspected of having rabies, it shall be the duty of
the town or designee to notify the health officer and to hold the dog or animal
under his orders; otherwise, to put to death said dog or other domestic animal
in a humane manner; provided however, that if the identity of the owner or
possessor of said dog or other domestic animal is known, the town or designee
shall initiate proceedings in the court of jurisdiction for an order to show
cause why said dog or other domestic animal should not be destroyed upon a
minimum of five (5) days' written notice to the owner or possessor of said dog
or other domestic animal. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
6-3-7: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
For the purposes of 4-H projects only, a temporary permit may be issued for a
limited number of small animals. Such permits shall be issued solely at the
discretion of the town council. Requests for a temporary permit must be
accompanied by a detailed plan to include type of animal to be raised with
beginning and end dates of project, care, feeding, animal waste removal and
final disposition of such animal. Applicant must also include letters of
consent signed by their adjoining neighbors. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
6-3-8: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 170, 10-14-2009)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Concealed Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 202, 5-12-2025)
6-4-3: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
6-4-4: Exceptions; Permits
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
Whenever the term "firearms" is used in this Chapter, the term shall mean any
instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets or other harmful
objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the action of
compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including what are
commonly known as air rifles and BB guns. (1965 Code § 6-5-1)
6-4-2: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 202, 5-12-2025)
6-4-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or
description within the limits of the Town; provided however, that this shall
not apply to police officers in the discharge of their duties. (1965 Code § 6-
5-3)
6-4-4: EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS:
The Town Council may at any time, upon receipt of proper application, grant
permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be in writing attested
by the Town Clerk conforming to such requirements as the Town Council shall
demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time
by action of the Town Council. (1965 Code § 6-5-4)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-2: Speed Limits
7-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of the purposes or penalty as provided,
all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Montana Traffic Code (title 61), as amended, are hereby adopted
by the Town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of
this Chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions under this Chapter if proceeded hereunder. (1999 Code)
7-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rules; Speed Limits:
      1.   Reasonable And Prudent Conditions: No person shall drive a vehicle
on a public thoroughfare at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent
under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then
existing. In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the
public thoroughfare in compliance with the legal requirements and duty of all
persons to use due care.
      2.   Twenty Five Miles Per Hour: Where no special hazard exists that
requires lower speed for compliance with subsection A of this Section, the
speed of any vehicle shall not exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   Amendments: Upon proper action by the Town Council, the speed limits
on any thoroughfare within the Town may be raised or lowered by posting signs
to that effect. (1965 Code § 10-4-1)
   B.   Minimum Speed Regulations: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at
such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with law. (1965 Code § 10-4-2)
   C.   Limited Speed Zone: All streets and avenues within the Town limits
shall be restricted to a twenty five (25) miles per hour speed limit, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Schools, Playgrounds And Similar Areas: All streets, avenues and
alleys adjacent to and within one block of any and all school buildings,
playgrounds, parking lots, athletic fields and practice fields shall be limited
to fifteen (15) miles per hour, twenty four (24) hours a day, three hundred
sixty five (365) days a year, including the Leap Year, February 29.
      2.   Alleys: All alleys within the Town limits shall be restricted to a
fifteen (15) mile per hour limit. (Ord. 3, 1974)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Sidewalks And Curbs
8-1-2: Snow Or Ice Removal
8-1-3: Streets And Avenues
8-1-1: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS:
   A.   Specifications: The material and method of constructing sidewalks and
curbs shall conform in all respects to the specifications adopted by the Town
Council. These specifications shall be on file in the Town Clerk's office at
all times. (1965 Code § 9-1-1)
   B.   Construction By Property Owner: It shall be the duty of every property
owner, upon notification by the Town Council, to construct or repair sidewalks
or curbs as such is prescribed in said notice. (1965 Code § 9-1-2)
   C.   Failure To Comply: If such property owner shall fail, after
notification, to construct or repair such sidewalk or curb, the Town Council
may order the same constructed or repaired. The costs of said work shall be
assessed against the property owner for which said sidewalk or curb was
constructed or repaired and said cost shall become a lien upon the property.
(1965 Code § 9-1-3)
8-1-2: SNOW OR ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises
abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and/or ice from
such sidewalk. (1965 Code § 9-2-1)
   B.   Notice Of Removal: It shall be the duty of the Town to give notice to
any owner or tenant of any property to remove snow and/or ice, which notice
shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such owner,
tenant or occupant. The owner or occupant shall have not more than twenty four
(24) hours from and after receipt of such notice, within which to remove the
snow and/or ice as set forth in said notice. (1965 Code § 9-2-2)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Removal By Town: Upon failure of an owner or tenant
to comply with the provisions of this Section, the Town shall have the right to
remove such snow and/or ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises
abutting the sidewalk. Such assessment to be certified to the County Assessor
or other proper County official having charge of the making of the assessment
roll and such charge shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in
the same manner as other Municipal taxes are collected. (1965 Code § 9-2-3)
8-1-3: STREETS AND AVENUES:
Streets and Avenues in Valier are eighty feet (80') wide with the exception of
Teton Avenue between 10th Street and 4th Street and Montana Street from the
town limit to Teton Avenue, they are ninety-six feet (96') wide in accordance
with the Valier townsite map dated 1937. (Ord. 192, 2-12-2024)
CHAPTER 2
NOXIOUS WEEDS
(Rep. by Ord. 169, 2-21-2005, eff. 2-21-2005)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Trimming Trees
8-3-2: Hedges And Shrubbery
8-3-3: Injury To Trees And/Or Shrubbery
8-3-4: Trees Outside Property Line
8-3-5: Standards And Regulations
8-3-1: TRIMMING TREES:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees on property
owned or occupied by him, overhanging any public thoroughfare, so that the
branches thereon will not interfere with pedestrians or public travel. (1965
Code § 9-3-1)
8-3-2: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the town. (1965
Code § 9-3-2)
8-3-3: INJURY TO TREES AND/OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, to wilfully injure, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant, located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1965 Code § 9-3-3)
8-3-4: TREES OUTSIDE PROPERTY LINE:
The town council is hereby provided full and complete control over all trees
which are outside the property lines of privately owned real property. (1965
Code § 9-3-4)
8-3-5: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this section is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of both the public citizenry and the trees in the town of Valier by
establishing standards and regulations to control planting, planning, removal,
maintenance and protection of the trees and shrubs within the public rights of
way and public land areas from undesirable and unsafe planting, removal,
maintenance and protection practices, and by eliminating and guarding against
dangerous conditions which may result in injury to persons using the public
areas of the town; and by promoting the enhancement and natural beauty of the
town; as well as to prevent damage to any public sewer or water main, street,
sidewalk or other public property; and to guard all trees and shrubs within the
town against the spread of disease or pests.
      2.   The town council determines these tree standards and regulations are
reasonably necessary and desirable for the following reasons:
         a.   Trees are proven producers of oxygen, a necessary element for the
survival of mankind;
         b.   Trees appreciably reduce the ever increasing and environmentally
dangerous carbon dioxide content of the air and play a vital role in purifying
the air;
         c.   Trees play an important role in the hydrologic cycle, transpiring
considerable amounts of water daily, thereby precipitating dust and other
particulate airborne pollutants from the air;
         d.   Trees play an integral role in neutralizing wastewater which
passes from the surface to lower ground water aquifers;
         e.   Trees, through their root systems, stabilize the soil and play an
important and effective part in soil conservation, erosion control and flood
control;
         f.   Trees are essential and an invaluable physical and psychological
addition to the town, making life more comfortable by providing shade and
cooling both air and land, reducing noise levels and glare and breaking the
visual monotony of development of land;
         g.   Trees provide wildlife habitat and play other important
ecological roles;
         h.   Some tree species are more beneficial than others as contributors
to the environment and it is not necessary to protect each and every tree in
order to attain the public benefit of a tree protection and replacement
ordinance.
      3.   The provisions of this section shall apply to all trees and shrubs
presently or hereafter planted in or upon any public area, which shall endanger
the life, health or safety of persons or property.
   B.   Scope Of Applicability:
      1.   This section applies to all trees, plants and shrubs located on or
in the right of way, boulevards, and public places of the town and to private
property trees that encroach, and/or create a condition which renders dangerous
for passage on any public right of way, boulevards and public places.
      2.   The provision of this section pertaining to planting, spacing or
species of trees shall not apply to any tree existing at the time of the
enactment of this section.
   C.   Responsibility For Trees: The town may take action to remove or treat
any tree on public land if it is diagnosed to have an epidemic insect
infestation or disease that would prove to be detrimental to the other trees in
town, or creates a hazard or an immediate threat to public safety, and assess
the cost of such action against the abutting property owner; or is identified
as a tree that would be either an obstruction or would not live after a street,
sidewalk, curb and gutter, alley or public utility construction or maintenance
project is implemented.
   D.   Licensing: All contracted aboricultural work or services performed by
businesses advertising or soliciting performance of services on trees within
the town, whether public or private, shall obtain a town business license from
the town prior to performing any work.
   E.   Vandalism Or Damage To Woody Vegetation: It is unlawful for any person
to abuse, injure, mutilate, destroy, or kill any tree, shrub or plant growing
in the public right of way, or to permit any animal under his control to do so.
Unlawful conduct shall include, but not be limited to, permitting any fire to
injure any portion of any tree or shrub. The party responsible for any such act
shall bear the cost of repairing or replacing the tree or vegetation pursuant
to the determination of the town council. No person shall obstruct, hinder,
prevent, delay or interfere with the parks department in the execution or
enforcement rules. Any decision of the parks department must be appealed within
fifteen (15) calendar days after notice is given to the property owner.
   F.   Penalties: Violation of these rules shall be a fine up to five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or the person paying a sum of money equal to the cost of its
replacement, determined in accordance with the latest revision of "Guide To
Tree And Plant Appraisal", as published by the International Society of
Arboriculture. (Ord. 168, 12-9-2002)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Permit And Insurance Required
8-4-2: Bond
8-4-3: Minimum Travel Interference
8-4-4: Barricades And Warning Lights
8-4-5: Time Limitations For Open Excavation
8-4-6: Backfilling
8-4-7: Revocation Of Permit
8-4-8: Penalty
8-4-1: PERMIT AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall open up, dig into, excavate or tunnel in any of the
streets, avenues, public places or alleys of the town for any purpose; connect
with any of the mains or pipes or connect with any sewer or water without
having first:
      1.   Obtained a permit from the town,
      2.   Made a cash payment to the town clerk-treasurer, and
      3.   Filed with the clerk-treasurer a good and sufficient surety bond,
proof of liability insurance naming the town as an additional insured and proof
of workers' compensation insurance.
   B.   The council shall set fees as to the cost of the permit. (Ord. 176, 5-
16-2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
8-4-2: BOND:
The bond required by section
8-4-1 of this chapter shall be in the sum of ten percent (10%) of the total
cost of the project or twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) whichever is
greater, and shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do business in
the state of Montana, conditioned to save the town harmless from any damage or
injury whatsoever to any person or property of any description, however owned,
by reason of leaving open any excavation or tunnel; or by reason of failure to
properly guard any such excavation or tunnel; or failure to place red lights at
such excavation or tunnel at night; or by any other action causing damage or
injury. Any person or contractor may furnish a yearly bond conditioned as set
forth above. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
8-4-3: MINIMUM TRAVEL INTERFERENCE:
Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. At no time during the progress of the work shall
sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked to travel. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-15-
2012)
8-4-4: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
   A.   Whenever excavation work in any street or alley in the town is in
progress, sufficient barricades shall be erected by the contractor or other
person in control around all trenches or embankments made by him within the
limits of any street, avenue, alley, public place or sidewalk. Red lights shall
be maintained thereon from dusk to daylight until the street, avenue, alley,
public place or sidewalk is restored to a safe and passable condition.
   B.   Failure or omission to protect against accident, in the manner required
by this chapter, shall cause a forfeiture of any permit which may have been
granted by the town.
   C.   No person shall walk upon or drive upon any street, alley, avenue or
sidewalk barricade as stated in subsections A, B, D and E of this section.
   D.   Whenever any barricade, red light or other warning device is placed
upon the streets, alleys, avenues, public places or sidewalks of the town by
any official or employee of the town in the course of his duty, or by any
contractor working on any street, alley, avenue, sidewalk or public place, no
person shall move or remove such red light, barricade or other warning device.
   E.   Following completion of the construction work and restoration of the
street or sidewalk to a safe and passable condition, the contractor or person
in charge of the work shall promptly remove all barricades, warning lights and
other safety devices from the street or sidewalk. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-
15-2012)
8-4-5: TIME LIMITATIONS FOR OPEN EXCAVATION:
The time that any street or alley excavation is open may be limited by the
mayor. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
8-4-6: BACKFILLING:
   A.   After completion of the laying of any pipe, line or conduit, or the
installation or repair of any facility for which the excavation was undertaken,
the excavator shall have a town of Valier public works employee inspect and
approve the work before backfilling.
   B.   Upon inspection and approval by the town, the excavator shall cause the
work to be backfilled in such a manner as to make the street in as good a
condition as before the excavation.
   C.   Any person making any excavation in any street or alley, as set forth
in this chapter, shall be fully responsible for the maintenance of the
excavation for a period of twelve (12) months after the backfill thereof. If
any settlement occurs in the area that was formerly excavated, the excavator or
person causing the excavation shall immediately, upon notice, fill in the
settling and put the street, alley, or avenue, in as good condition as possible
for use by the public. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
8-4-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Any permit issued under authority of this chapter may be revoked for
failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with the
specifications, methods or time limits required or approved by the town.
   B.   Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request, receive a
hearing before the town council or person designated by the council. The
council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any other action
it deems proper. (Ord. 176, 5-16-2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
8-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person or contractor violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined
the amount set by council and published in its fee schedule. (Ord. 176, 5-16-
2012, eff. 6-15-2012)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Administration
9-1-2: Rules And Regulations
9-1-3: Sewer Connection Required
9-1-4: Application For Permit
9-1-5: Connection; Costs
9-1-6: Fees, Rates And Charges
9-1-7: Main Construction And Requirements; Costs
9-1-8: Prohibited Uses And Regulations
9-1-9: Transfer Of Mains And Laterals To Town
9-1-10: Penalty
9-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Responsibilities:
      1.   Mayoral Duties Generally: The mayor shall be the chief executive
officer of the waterworks and shall have charge of all employees and all
property pertaining to the waterworks and sewer system. The mayor shall have
charge of all contracts and shall see that they are faithfully executed.
      2.   Public Works Department's Duties Generally: The public works
department (PWD) shall give written orders for all supplies and materials to
the mayor for justification and shall preserve a copy of such orders in the
public works department's office. The PWD shall have charge of the erection,
alteration, maintenance and cleaning of all buildings, engines, pumps,
fixtures, wells, reservoirs and grounds. The PWD shall determine the location
and size of all water mains, sewer lines, service connections, valves, and
hydrants in compliance with all applicable state codes and laws.
      3.   Records Maintained: The public works department shall keep a correct
record of location of all mains (water and sewer), hydrants, and valves and all
work performed including replacement or maintenance of existing mains,
hydrants, and valves. The PWD shall submit to the mayor all bills, monthly
description of services, vacation time taken, and sick leave taken. The PWD
shall keep a correct account of water delivered through the normal flow system,
through bulk water sales and through hydrant sales. The PWD will prepare and
present a public works report indicating the water usage for the previous month
to the town council during the monthly town meeting.
      4.   Water Turn Off Notices: The public works department also notifies
water service account holders of water turn off notices by hanging the notice
(yellow tag) on the door of each account necessary.
      5.   Water Service: The public works department will turn off and on
water service when needed as advised by the deputy town clerk.
      6.   Reading, Billing, Receipts, Deposits And Shutoff Notices (Yellow
Tags): The deputy town clerk is responsible for the following:
         a.   Using the current meter reading system, creates a meter reading
route in the system.
         b.   Drives the route and allows the reader to collect the current
meter reading.
         c.   Uploads the meter readings from the handheld to the computer
program.
         d.   Produces bills and mails them to customers.
         e.   Collects and records all water bill payments received.
         f.   Prepares and makes a weekly deposit of all proceeds received.
         g.   After the twentieth of the month, produces a listing of all water
accounts for the purpose of finding overdue accounts.
         h.   Prepares a water shutoff notice (yellow tag) for each account
deemed overdue according to rule 5 of this chapter allowing three (3) business
days for payment before water service will be turned off.
         i.   Notifies the public works department when the water shutoff
notices are ready.
         j.   Notifies the public works department of which accounts need to
have their water service turned off.
         k.   Collects all overdue and current amounts due (fully paid account)
plus a twenty dollar ($20.00) fee for turning the service back on.
         l.   Notifies the public works department to turn water service back
on for paid up accounts.
   B.   Permits: The Valier town office shall issue all permits approved by the
town council for tapping mains, and shall record all taps, service pipes, their
size, location, materials used and the worked on projects.
   C.   Pump Record: The public works department shall keep a daily record of
the work of each pump, the pressure maintained, the number of gallons pumped
and such other data as may be deemed necessary.
   D.   Gates And Hydrants: The public works department shall see that all
gates and hydrants are restored to their proper condition after use by the fire
department and shall check the same at least once each month, and shall report
all breaks and complete prompt repairs.
   E.   Taps And Service Pipes: The public works department shall make all taps
for services and examine all service pipes and connections, and see that they
are properly laid and stopcocks are properly placed and keep a record of the
same.
   F.   Inspection: Whenever necessary the public works department may inspect
the premises of any consumer for the purpose of examining the condition of all
pipes, meters, water fixtures and sewer lines and will be vigilant to detect
and eliminate all abuses, whether from waste or other improper use of water.
(Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rules: The following rules and regulations are hereby established for
the management, control and protection of the water and sewer works. All
premises within the town of Valier will connect to the town water system. These
rules shall be considered a part of the contract with every person who takes
water supplied by the town from the town waterworks, and every person taking
water shall be considered as having expressed consent to be bound thereby:
Rule 1. Applications for use of water or sewer must be made at the town clerk's
office on printed forms furnished for the purpose. The application must be made
by the owner/developer or agent of the property to be benefited, designating
the lot, block, street and number where water is desired, and shall state fully
all the purposes for which the water may be required and shall sign a contract
therefor; said contract, when executed, shall be filed in the office of the
town clerk before a permit is issued authorizing connections to be made. No
taps will be made to the mains by the public works department until the
applicant, for whom such connection is to be made, has signed the contract
mentioned herein, and a plumber permit has been issued authorizing the said
plumber to lay such pipes and connections as will conform to the application.
Rule 2. It is understood and agreed that upon making connections with the
waterworks, the town shall own and control all corporation cocks, connections,
curb stops and stop boxes, and the same shall be and remain the absolute
property of the town.
Rule 3. When additional fixtures within or outside a dwelling unit or
commercial unit are added and not reported, the same shall be charged at double
the rate for such time said fixtures are in use, in addition to a twenty dollar
($20.00) penalty for such violation.
Rule 4. Should it be desired to discontinue the use of water from any or all
fixtures, written notice thereof shall be filed at the office of the town clerk
and all arrearages paid and rates shall be charged until such notice is given.
The water will then be turned off and on again with a charge of twenty dollars
($20.00) for each turn off and an additional charge of twenty dollars ($20.00)
for turn on. Basic rates for water and sewer service will still be due monthly.
Rule 5. Water and sewer bills must be paid monthly on the first day of each and
every month at the town clerk's office; if not paid on or before the tenth of
the month, the bill becomes delinquent, and if not paid by the twentieth of the
month, a late fee of five dollars ($5.00) shall be applied to the balance
outstanding.
When a water and sewer account has a current and a thirty (30) day balance
outstanding, the town will issue a water shutoff notice (yellow door tag)
allowing three (3) business days to clear up any and all balances due or the
public works department will be directed to turn off the water service. To
reactivate the water service, all balances due will have to be paid in full.
Once the water service is turned off for nonpayment, a twenty dollar ($20.00)
fee will be assessed to turn the water service back on. This fee is required to
be paid before the service is again turned on.
If the occupant of the premises turns on the water service or causes the water
service to be turned on after it has been shut off at the curb stop, it will be
turned off at the main and a charge of forty dollars ($40.00) will be assessed
for the expense of turning it off and on.
For any request to turn off or on a water service after normal working hours of
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on Monday
through Friday, the turn on or off fee will be seventy five dollars ($75.00).
Rule 6. No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes to lots or
buildings through adjoining lots.
Rule 7. Two (2) or more premises cannot be supplied from one and the same
connection.
Rule 8. Consumers will be required to use, in making connections with the town
water lines, PVC plastic or copper service lines of the best quality; provided,
however, that the town reserves the right, when the streets are to be improved
by macadamizing or paving, to require that all iron service pipes be removed
and replaced with copper or PVC plastic of the best quality.
Rule 9. The town shall not be responsible for pipes and fixtures. All owners,
at their own expense, must keep service pipes from town mains, and all their
apparatus, in good working order and properly protected from frost and other
dangers. No claim shall be made against the town on account of the breaking of
any service pipe or apparatus, or for accidental failure in supply of water. No
reduction for the regular rates will be made for any time that service pipes or
fixtures may be frozen.
Rule 10.
   A.      Application: All persons desiring to make connection with the public
water system shall make application to the town for a water connection permit
and must pay a fee as per the fee schedule set by the town council.
   B.      Approved Water Meters:
      1.   The town will require the owners of property serviced by town water
lines to permit the installation of water meters on private property, as
required for appropriate meter use.
      2.   All owners of property requesting water services from the town will
be required to install a town approved water meter as hereinafter provided.
      3.   Only town approved radio-read meters may be used for the metering of
water consumption for town water billing purposes. The fee for obtaining a
water meter will be set by resolution by the town council. By utilizing radio-
read meters, the town will be able to read meters from the street.
   C.      Responsibility For Repair Or Replacement: A water meter may not be
installed for use or connection to the town water system until approved by the
town. After an approved installation of a water meter, the town is responsible
for its repair or replacement, except when the repair or replacement is
required because of damage to or loss of the meter due to a negligent or
intentional act by the customer, in which case the customer is responsible for
the repair or replacement. When a customer is liable for the repair or
replacement, the actual cost may be added to the water bill for the property
served by the water meter.
   D.      Meter Installation Requirements: Water meters may only be installed
by persons authorized by law to do so, and pursuant to applicable approval from
the town. Water meters must be installed in accordance with requirements of
this rule, and will be inspected by the town for compliance therewith. A water
meter bypass will not be allowed. Water meters will only be installed at the
location approved by the town. The town may place the meter in an outside meter
box where necessary and bill the property owner the charges for constructing
the meter pit.
   E.      Access: Employees of the water department have free access at proper
hours of the day to all parts of buildings in which water is delivered from the
town mains for the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes, meters and
fixtures, and for the purposes of repairing or replacing meters.
   F.      Defective Meter: Any defective meter may be removed at the
discretion of the department of public works. Should a meter fail to register
accurately, the consumer shall be charged at the average daily consumption as
shown by the meter during the last twelve (12) months that the same was in good
order. In the event a consumer notifies the water department that a meter is
not registering accurately, the department of public works may arrange for the
testing of the meter at the town's expense. Should test results show that the
meter was in proper working order, the customer will be responsible for the
test costs. Tests conducted by the town, or its contractors, to determine the
accuracy of the meter shall be conclusive in determining whether the meter is
properly working.
   G.      Meter Readings: Only authorized representatives of the town's water
department will read meters. If a meter is unable to be read, then there will
be an estimated amount billed, based on the average monthly consumption as
shown by the meter during the prior twelve (12) months. Any adjustment to the
water bill must be made only after an actual meter reading by approved town
meter readers.
Rule 11. During all alarms of fire, the use of hose, yard fountains, hydraulic
motors, elevators and all outlets where a constant flow of water is maintained
is positively forbidden. This rule will be strictly enforced.
Rule 12. If the meter is placed on a pipe connected to a boiler or other hot
water apparatus, a check valve must be placed between such meter and said
boiler or other hot water apparatus to protect the meter from any back pressure
of steam or hot water.
Rule 13. When the water has been turned off for violation of the rules and
regulations in this chapter, the public works department will withhold it until
all bills and penalties have been paid at the town clerk's office, including
the further sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) for turning the water on.
Rule 14. The town shall not be held responsible for accidents resulting from
insecure boilers or other hot water apparatus, or from variation in water
pressure, or the ram of the water from the mains, or collapse from any cause
whatsoever.
Rule 15. The town reserves the right at any time, without prior notice, to shut
the water off its main for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or any
other purpose, and no claim shall be made against the town by reason of the
breakage of any service pipe or service cock, or from any other damage that may
result from shutting off water for repairing, laying or relaying mains,
hydrants or other connections.
Rule 16. Contractors, builders or others desiring water for building purposes
must make application to the town clerk, who will issue a permit therefor. The
amount paid shall be based on the amount used.
Rule 17. The charges for the use of water furnished by the town water system
shall be as determined by the town council. The town council will establish and
change the water rates and charges to a system based on amount of water used as
recorded in meter readings by resolution after notice and hearing.
Rule 18. The utility billing for all rental units is the sole responsibility of
the property owner. Utility bills will be only sent to the property owner. All
water used shall be chargeable against the property on which it is used and
against the owner of said property, and the charges made therefor under the
provisions of this chapter shall become a lien against said property and the
same may be collected as a special tax against the same; if for any cause any
sums owing for use of water shall become delinquent, the supply shall be
immediately cut off and in no event shall it be turned on again until all such
delinquencies shall have been paid in full. No change of ownership or occupancy
shall affect the application of this section.
Rule 19. No person other than an authorized employee of the public works
department shall make any tap or connection with any main or distributing pipe
of the waterworks system.
Rule 20. The public works department shall be permitted, with authorization by
the town council, to enter the premises or buildings of consumers to examine
the water pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the water is used; and in
case of fraudulent representation on the part of the consumer, or wilful or
unreasonable waste of water, such consumer shall forfeit any payment made, and
the public works department may cause the water to be turned off and assess the
damages, if any, to the premises.
Rule 21. It shall be the duty of the police to give vigilant aid to the public
works department in the enforcement of its rules and regulations, and to this
end they shall report all violations thereof that come to their knowledge to
the public works department and/or town office.
Rule 22. The town reserves the right in the case of shortage of water, or for
any other cause, to make any order forbidding or suspending the use of water
for irrigation or sprinkling and the town council may, in its discretion, at
any time make such order by giving notice through the town's official
newspaper, and any person violating such order shall be subject to a charge of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first violation, fifty dollars ($50.00)
for the second violation and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the third
violation and any subsequent violation, which shall be a charge against the
person supplied, and the water shall be cut off. In no case shall the water be
turned on until such charge has been paid in full and a reconnection fee paid
as established herein.
   B.   Scope Of Authority: For each and every violation of the rules and
regulations established by this chapter, when the offense is one that relates
to plumbing, nonpayment of water rents, leakage or other illegal use of water,
the public works department will stop the supply of water to the offender, who
shall forfeit all payments that have been made for the same.
   C.   Availability Of Rules: A copy of these rules may be furnished to all
owners and consumers of water, and the same shall be considered a part of the
contract made between the town and every such owner and consumer. (Ord. 181, 8-
11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016; amd. Ord. 189, 1-10-2022)
9-1-3: SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED:
All premises within the town of Valier will be connected to the town sewer
system. (Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required: Any person desiring to make connection with an existing or
extended public sewer line shall make application to the town clerk on an
application form to be furnished by the town.
   B.   Information Required: All applicants for permits for new construction
to sewers must first give a description of the property to be served, grade at
building line, and such other information as may be required by the town clerk
for the proper direction of the work, and must be signed by the owner or his
authorized agent.
   C.   Excavations: No person shall excavate for or construct any sewer main,
service or connection thereto, or modify or repair the same, without holding a
proper permit for such work from the town.
   D.   Plumbing Requirements: Permits to connect to the town sewer system
shall not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected is in accordance with the provisions of the building and plumbing
codes of the town.
   E.   Special Permit For Owner Of Property: No permit for the construction,
modification or repair of any sewer drain shall be given to any person who has
not obtained a permit in the manner set forth by the town council. The town
council may, at its regular or special meeting thereof, authorize a person who
shall be the owner of a building and who desires to himself do all of the work
and labor necessary in the construction, modification or repair of any sewer or
drain, to do the work and labor under the direct supervision of the public
works department. In the event such authorization is given, the fees for
connecting shall be increased and the fee shall include the cost of such
supervision by the public works department. (Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-
2016)
9-1-5: CONNECTION; COSTS:
   A.   Authorized Persons: It shall be unlawful for any person other than the
public works department or a person duly appointed by the town council to make
any sewer connections to and with the town sewer system, or repair any sewer
connection in the streets and alleys within the town limits; provided, however,
that connections made under the direct supervision of the public works
department or a person duly appointed by the town council will be deemed to
comply with this section.
   B.   Connection Through Adjoining Lots Prohibited: No consumer shall be
permitted to connect sewer pipes to lots or buildings through adjoining lots.
   C.   Multiple Connections: Two (2) or more premises cannot be supplied from
the same connection.
   D.   Cost Of Connection: Any person obtaining a permit for connection to the
town sewer and water system shall pay to the town clerk a sum of money
sufficient to pay the cost of connection or extension of any water or sewer
line. Such sum shall be determined by the town council and public works
department and shall be based on actual costs of construction and trench
digging to a point three feet (3') within the property line. All work shall be
accomplished under the direction of the public works department and all costs
of such connection or extension shall be paid by the permit holder. If the
deposit made is not sufficient to cover actual costs, the permit holder shall
pay the difference between the deposit and the actual cost. If the deposit made
by the permit holder is more than the actual cost, the balance of such amount
shall be returned to the permit holder. (Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-6: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The rates, penalty fees for
delinquency in payment and connection fees for sewer services from the town
sewer system shall be fixed from time to time by resolution or ordinance of the
town council. The town council may from time to time enact rules for levying,
billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for sewer services and all other
rules necessary for the management and control of the sewer system.
   B.   Special Rates: The town council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions upon such terms as they may deem
proper for users of the sewer service discharging wastes of unusual
characteristics or making use thereof under exceptional circumstances.
   C.   Complaints, Corrections: The town council is hereby constituted a board
of equalization of sewer rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments or charges deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust.
   D.   Delinquency: The town shall have the right, through its duly authorized
officers and agents, to turn off water service for nonpayment of water or sewer
charges and the same shall not be turned on again until all charges have been
paid in full, together with an additional charge of twenty dollars ($20.00) for
again turning on the water. (Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-7: MAIN CONSTRUCTION AND REQUIREMENTS; COSTS:
   A.   Size Of Drain: No sewer service shall be less than four inches (4") in
diameter and no sewer main shall be less than eight inches (8") in diameter.
All sewer services and mains shall be of adequate size to convey and allow free
and entire passage of such materials that enter or should enter the same.
   B.   Supervision: The design and construction of all sewer mains will be
accomplished under the supervision of the public works department. Repair,
replacement or other modifications to sewer services shall be accomplished
under the supervision and direction of the public works department.
   C.   Laying Of Pipe: Sewer connections shall be made of good, sound
materials and shall be installed according to the most recent state plumbing
codes and the Montana public works standards. Sewer services and mains are to
be inspected and approved by the public works department prior to burial. Such
inspections will include, but not be limited to, trenching procedures, pipe
materials, bedding and backfilling procedures, proper grade design, pipe
connections, manhole construction, pressure testing and surface restoration.
   D.   Safety: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town. The
customer, at the customer's expense, is responsible for the excavation from the
point of intended use to the main and restoration of the surface to acceptable
condition, all of which shall be done in strict compliance with any ordinance,
resolution or regulation of the town governing excavations in streets and
alleys. Failure to do so may be cause for discontinuance of service. The
customer, at the customer's expense, shall maintain all service piping and
appurtenances in good condition, operable and free from leaks. The customer
shall repair any leaks in the service lines immediately upon discovery.
   E.   Cost: Construction and installation of all new water and sewer mains,
fire hydrants, tees, valves and manholes shall be at the cost of the landowners
or developers. Construction and installation of said water and sewer lines and
necessary additions thereto shall be in conformance with prescribed methods as
adopted by the town. A standard fee, set by the town council, shall be charged
for all hookups to or extensions of any water or sewer main. Such fee shall
include the cost of water lines, curb stops, standpipes, valves and sewer taps
from the water main or sewer main to the property line to be served.
   F.   Town Held Harmless: It is expressly stipulated by the town and its
licensees that the town shall be held harmless by reason of the breaking of any
sewer line, curb cock or any accidental failure in the supply of water. (Ord.
181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-8: PROHIBITED USES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority To Adopt Regulations: The town council shall have power to
and retains the right to adopt regulations controlling the manner and
circumstances under which the sewer system may be used.
   B.   Pollutants: Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius
(60°C) are prohibited. These wastes include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, etc., in solid, liquid or gaseous form.
   C.   Toxic Waste: Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient
quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of the town system, to injure or interfere with sewage treatment process
or equipment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public
nuisance or result in the pass-through of inadequately treated wastes to
receiving waters are prohibited.
   D.   Solid Substances: Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such
size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or interference with
the proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and disposable diapers, paper dishes, cups, milk containers,
etc., either whole or ground by garbage disposals, are prohibited.
   E.   Drainage: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump
discharges, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such
connection is approved by the public works department and the Montana state
department of health for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   F.   Penalty: Any violation of the foregoing provisions shall subject the
offender to their water service being turned off. Reestablishing service will
require a fully paid up account and the normal charges for turnoff/turn on of
service. (Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-9: TRANSFER OF MAINS AND LATERALS TO TOWN:
After completion and acceptance of a water and sewer main or lateral extension,
title to it shall be transferred and conveyed to the town by the owner or
developer free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances, without cost to
the town. The town will then be responsible for maintenance and repair of said
water and sewer mains and laterals up to the property line. (Ord. 181, 8-11-
2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
9-1-10: PENALTY:
   A.   For the violation of any of the foregoing provisions of this chapter
and for nonpayment of sewer rates when due, the town reserves the right to turn
off the water without notice and the consumer shall forfeit any payment made;
and after the water has been turned off from any service pipe on account of the
violation of any of the rules or for nonpayment of sewer rates, the same shall
not be turned on until the rules are strictly complied with and all back rates
are paid, together with the expense of turning off and on the water, which in
each case will not be less than twenty dollars ($20.00).
   B.   In case two (2) or more parties or families are supplied with water
from the same service pipe, if either party violates any of the foregoing rules
or fails to pay the water rate when due, the same privilege of turning off the
water is reserved to the town.
   C.   When a party uses water for domestic purposes and for irrigation or any
other purposes from the same service pipe, nonpayment of sewer rates will
subject the consumer to the rule entitling the town to shut off the water and
it shall be the duty of the town under such circumstances to shut off the same.
(Ord. 181, 8-11-2016, eff. 9-10-2016)
CHAPTER 2
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Short Title
9-2-2: Purpose
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Substances Regulated
9-2-5: Restrictions Within Primary Protection Zone
9-2-6: Establishment Of Management Zones
9-2-7: Restrictions Within Management Zones
9-2-8: Exemptions
9-2-9: Maps And Details Available
9-2-10: Penalty
9-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION ORDINANCE OF
VALIER. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is the protection of health, life, resources and
property through the regulation of hazardous substance transport and storage,
and related aspects of land use and development in the vicinity of any well
that supplies potable water to the Town water system. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
AQUIFER: A geologic formation, group of formations or part of a formation that
contains sufficient saturated, permeable material to yield significant
quantities of water to wells and springs.
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public water system that serves ten (10) or more
families or serves industry serving ten (10) or more persons.
FACILITY: A building or buildings, appurtenant structures and surrounding land
used by a single business, private entity or governmental unit or sub-unit at a
single location or site.
GROUND WATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the surface of land
or water, whether or not it is flowing through known and definite channels.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Those materials specified in Section
9-2-4 of this Chapter.
MANAGEMENT ZONES: A zone or zones established to provide protection to the area
surrounding a well or well field from potential contaminant sources. Management
options may include limits on certain activities, more stringent design and
operating standards, strict monitoring of potential pollution sources,
promoting best management practices and/or implementing education programs.
Multiple protection zones may be established for different management
strategies based on proximity to the well field.
PETROLEUM PRODUCT: Fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene and mixtures of these
products), lubricating oil, motor oils, hydraulic fluids and other similar
products.
POTABLE WATER: Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and domestic
purposes meeting current State and Federal drinking water standards.
PRIMARY CONTAINMENT: The first level of product-tight containment, i.e., the
inside portion of that container which comes into immediate contact on its
inner surface with the hazardous material being contained.
PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE: An area extending not less than two hundred feet
(200') radially from any well used in monitoring or supplying potable water to
the community water system.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any utility (gas, water, sewer, electrical, telephone, cable
television, etc.) whether publicly owned or privately owned.
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT: The level of product-tight containment external to and
separate from the primary containment. Secondary containment shall consist of
leak-proof trays under containers, floor curbing or other containment systems
and shall be of adequate State-approved size and design to handle all spills,
leaks and/or overflows, and specific design and selection of materials shall be
sufficient to preclude any substance loss. Containment systems shall be
sheltered so that the intrusion of precipitation is effectively prevented.
STORAGE SYSTEM: Any one or combination of tanks, sumps, wet floors, waste
treatment facilities, pipes, vaults or other portable or fixed containers used
or designed to be used for the storage of hazardous substances at a facility.
WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted
or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is to conduct
ground water from an aquifer or monitor the characteristics of ground water
within an aquifer system. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-4: SUBSTANCES REGULATED:
The materials regulated by this Chapter shall consist of the following:
   A.   "Petroleum products", as defined in Section
9-2-3 of this Chapter.
   B.   Substances listed in Section
9-2-5 of this Chapter and the Federal hazardous waste list.
   C.   Substances other than those listed on the Federal hazardous waste list
that are determined by State or Federal agencies to pose a significant threat
to any community water supply well or well field. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-5: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE:
   A.   Hazardous Substances; Reporting Required: No person shall discharge or
cause or permit the discharge of a hazardous substance (including herbicide and
pesticide) to the soils, ground water or surface water within the Primary
Protection Zone. Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge shall
report such information to the appropriate water system personnel.
   B.   Sanitary Landfills: New sanitary landfills are prohibited within the
Primary Protection Zone.
   C.   Use, Production, Storage Of Hazardous Substances; Exception: The use,
handling, production and storage of hazardous substances is prohibited in the
Primary Protection Zone, except as provided under Section
9-2-8 of this Chapter.
   D.   Feedlots And Other Similar Facilities: Feedlots or other concentrated
animal facilities are prohibited within the Primary Protection Zone.
   E.   Wastewater Treatment Plants: Wastewater treatment plants are prohibited
within the Primary Protection Zone.
   F.   Septic Tanks: Septic tanks are prohibited within the Primary Protection
Zone. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-6: ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT ZONES:
   A.   Authority; First Zone: Additional protection beyond the Primary
Protection Zone shall be accomplished by the establishment of management zones.
The first management zone shall begin at a point or points not less than one
hundred feet (100') radially from any community water well and extend outward
to a point or points as determined by the Wellhead Protection Area Planning
Committee.
   B.   Subsequent Zones: Subsequent and additional management zones may be
established whenever it is determined that the wellhead protection area needs
to be expanded to provide adequate protection for the ground water within and/
or adjacent to the wellhead protection area.
   C.   Zone One: The boundaries of Management Zone One shall begin at a point
or points along the outer perimeter of the Primary Protection Zone and extended
outward to all points within and including the Town limit boundaries.
Furthermore, as the Town limit boundaries are extended or changed, the
Management Zone One boundaries shall be extended or changed in like manner and
simultaneously.
   D.   Zone Two:
      1.   The boundaries of Management Zone Two shall include all the area
extending between the Primary Protection Zone and/or the Management Zone One
outer perimeter and a minimum of one mile radially from any well supplying
water to the aforementioned community water system.
      2.   The area within Management Zone Two shall be managed by conducting a
public education program to inform the property owners of the need for and
methods of wellhead protection. If additional management methods are necessary,
the appropriate governing bodies with jurisdiction over the area within the
Management Zone Two shall be notified. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-7: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN MANAGEMENT ZONES:
   A.   Zone One: All wells within Management Zone One shall meet all State
construction and monitoring requirements of a community water system.
   B.   Zone Two: Before any new well is to be installed, the Town shall be
notified.
   C.   Additional Restrictions:
      1.   Any more restriction within each management zone shall be determined
by a wellhead protection area planning committee. The planning committee or
their appointee shall conduct a survey of the wellhead area and identify the
potential sources of contamination therein.
      2.   After assessing the local ground water protection needs, the method
or combination of management methods shall be submitted for approval.
      3.   The restrictions, if any, within each management zone, may be
modified periodically to provide additional protection or to prevent future
contamination. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-8: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of this
Chapter:
   A.   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the wellhead
protection area, provided the transporting vehicle is in-transit.
   B.   The use of herbicides and pesticides is prohibited within the Primary
Protection Zone but is allowed within the management zones, provided best
management practices are used or it is determined that the use of such
herbicides and pesticides does not pose a serious threat to the ground water.
   C.   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel
tank or as a lubricant in a vehicle.
   D.   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management center
facilities or public utility transmission facilities.
   E.   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances
for resale in their original unopened containers.
   F.   Consumer products limited to use a facility solely for janitorial or
minor maintenance purposes.
   G.   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal,
family or household purposes.
   H.   The storage and use of hazardous substances such as fuel or lubricant
to provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is provided for the substance.
   I.   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of
the well. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-9: MAPS AND DETAILS AVAILABLE:
Complete details of this Chapter as well as maps illustrating the areas
referred to herein, may be inspected at the Town Hall and copies may be
obtained at a reasonable charge for copying. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
9-2-10: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter occurring within Primary Protection Zone,
Management Zones One and Two shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor and be
punishable by imprisonment in the County jail for up to twelve (12) months and/
or by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each separate
violation hereof. For any corporation committing any violation of this Chapter
within Primary Protection Zone and Management Zone One shall be punished by a
fine of not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or double the
defendant's gain, whichever is greater. (Ord. 9-5-13, 3-27-1997)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted. Those certain codes known as “the state building code”
(referred to in Mont. Code Ann. § 50-60-203 (2021) are hereby adopted by the
Town of Valier for the purpose of regulating buildings in the Town of Valier
and protecting the health and safety of the Towns Residents, which codes
consist of:
      1.   The International Building Code (hereinafter referred to as the
“IBC”), 2021 Edition, as described in and amended by Administrative Rules of
Montana (hereinafter referred to as “A.RM.”) 24.301.131.
      2.   The International Residential Code (hereinafter referred to as the
“IRC”), 2021 Edition, as described in and amended by A.RM. 24.301.154.
      3.   The International Energy Conservation Code (hereinafter referred to
as the “IECC”) 2021 Edition, as amended by A.RM. 24.301.161.
      4.   The International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition, as described
in and amended by A.RM. 24.301.171.
   B.   Codes Incorporated: These codes are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein as if fully set out in their entirety herein.
   C.   Copy on File: One copy of each of the codes mentioned in subsection A
of this section shall be on file with the Clerk of the Town of Valier for
inspection by the public. (1965 Code § 4-1-1; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 194, 2-10-
2025)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of this
Town, that certain plumbing code known as the National Plumbing Code, current
edition, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in
the office of the Town Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this
Chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
installation, alteration or repairing of plumbing. (1965 Code § 4-2-1; amd.
1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
10-3-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected on, any
building or structure within the limits of the Town shall be in conformity with
the provisions set forth in the National Electrical Code, current edition,
which is hereby adopted as the electrical code of this Town, three (3) copies
of the above adopted code shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1965 Code § 4-3-1; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ENERGY CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Adoption Of Statewide Energy Code Of Montana
10-4-1: ADOPTION OF STATEWIDE ENERGY CODE OF MONTANA:
For the purpose of establishing an energy code there is hereby adopted that
certain energy code known as the statewide Montana energy code - the current
edition of the international energy conservation code with Montana amendments.
Not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
town clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the
town. (Ord. 175, 5-13-2011, eff. 6-13-2011)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
THE ZONING ACT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Zoning Law; Map
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Zoning Districts
11-1-4: Boundaries Established
11-1-1: ZONING LAW; MAP:
This Title shall be known as the ZONING LAW OF THE MUNICIPALITY and shall
consist of the text thereof as well as that certain Map identified by the
approving signatures of the Town Council, marked and designated as Zoning Map,
which said Map is now on file in the office of the Town Clerk. Said Map has
been heretofore examined in detail by the Town Council and is hereby adopted as
a part of this Title, however, this Title and said Map shall be subject to
change from time to time as may be determined by the Town Council. (1965 Code §
11-1-1)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words.
The word "structure" shall include the word "building"; and the word "lot"
shall include the word "plot".
ACCESSORY BUILDING USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on the
same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such building or
to the main use.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the Official Plat of the Town or its additions
and designated thereon as an alley.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
AUTO WRECKING OR JUNKYARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; any land, building or structure used for wrecking
or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof and including any farm
vehicles or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging and
scavenging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE: A passenger vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or fender straightening and
repair; overall painting of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: An establishment where automotive fuels and
lubricants, accessories and services are sold at retail; however, where the
sale of such is only incidental the establishment or premises shall be
classified as a public garage.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement
shall be counted as a story for purpose of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or a
sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are
provided for compensation for four (4) or more persons, but not exceeding
twelve (12) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after
adherence to the minimum open space requirements of this Title.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distances measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line
of a mansard roof; and to mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable,
hip or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set back from the
street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this Title the building line is the same as a
front yard setback line.
CARPORT: A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two (2) motor driven vehicles.
CONDITIONAL USES: The following uses of land or structures, or both, may be
permitted within any "use district", subject to specific provisions of this
Title:
Airport, landing field or landing strip.
Bus terminal, railroad, passenger station or any other transportation terminal
facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums.
Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials.
Golf courses, public or private.
Hospitals or sanitariums.
Institutions for the care of the insane or feeble-minded.
Nursery schools, day nurseries and childcare centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for, and that the play area is fenced or screened from any adjoining
lot in any residence zone with planting.
Park or playground, public or private.
Parking area, public.
Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of Town equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public utility facilities, filtration plant or pumping station, heat or power
plant, transformer station and other similar facilities.
Radio and television antenna towers, commercial.
Railroad right of way.
Recreation buildings, municipal or privately owned, or a community center.
Schools, public or private.
Telephone exchange.
Trash or garbage areas, for the dumping or disposal of.
COURT: An unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building
and bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building.
CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of the
front of a building. Where no curb grade has been established, the Town Council
shall establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this
Title.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the Town for which
the regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are
uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house trailer,
designed exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-
family and multiple dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and lodging
houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy by
one family.
DWELLING, ROW: A row of three (3) to six (6) attached one- family dwellings,
not more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height, nor more than two (2)
rooms deep.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel designed
primarily for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the Engineer.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or a group of not more than five (5) persons living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FENCE: A masonry wall or a barrier composed of posts connected by boards,
rails, panels, or wire for the purpose of enclosing space or separating parcels
of land. The term "fence" does not include retaining walls.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets, or natural barriers.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than three
(3) motor driven vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial
vehicle of not more than two (2) ton capacity.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair or equipment of automobiles, or for vehicles parked or stored for
remuneration, hire or sale.
GUEST HOUSE: A structure for human habitation, containing one or more rooms
with bath and toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities
which would provide a complete housekeeping unit.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within the dwelling and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof; and provided, that no article is sold or offered for
sale except such as may be produced on the premises by members of the immediate
family. Clinics, doctors' offices, hospitals, barbershops, beauty parlors,
dress shops, millinery shops, real estate offices, tearooms, tourist homes, the
keeping or maintaining of animals of any kind except a licensed dog or cat,
animal hospitals and kennels, among others, shall not be deemed to be home
occupations.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution open to the public, in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guest rooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit
establishment for public or semi-public use.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, at least four (4)
months of age, are kept.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space or area on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not open to
the public or transients.
LOT: A parcel or plot of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building or use, with accessory buildings, including the open spaces required
by this Title, and having its principal frontage upon a public street or
highway.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT, DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; and for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter lot boundary along
a street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot whether across an alley or not.
LOT, WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a use
or lawfully situated which does not conform to the regulations of this Title.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of children, the
aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed or unenclosed, which has adequate access to a
public street or alley, sufficient in size to store one automobile.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any type or material, installed any place
for outdoor advertising purposes.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, either on the ground or on
something having location on the ground.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plain or platform, which for purposes
of this Title is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings, including auto
courts, motels or motor lodges, containing individual sleeping or living units,
designed for or used by tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking
space conveniently located to each unit.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power used for human habitation, including a
trailer coach or house trailer designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one automobile house trailer.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is intended, designed, arranged
or maintained.
YARD: An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, on the
same lot with a main building, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between
the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the main building and a side
lot line, and extending from the required front yard or from the front lot
line, if there is no required front yard, to the required rear yard. (1965 Code
§§ 11-1-2, 11-1-3, 11-1-4; amd. Ord. 190, 2-12-2024)
11-1-3: ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this Title the Town shall be and is hereby divided into
zoning districts as follows:
   Zone A   Residence Zone
   Zone B   Residence Zone
   Zone C   Residence Zone
   Zone D   Commercial Zone
   Zone E   Industrial Zone
   Zone T   Trailer Camps
(1965 Code § 11-1-5)
11-1-4: BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The boundaries of the zones as designated by this Title shall be established
and clearly marked upon the Zoning Map as adopted in this Title; provided, that
public hearings shall be held by the Town Council before establishment and
approval of said zones. (1965 Code § 11-1-6)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Streets And Boundaries
11-2-2: Compliance With District Requirements
11-2-3: Height Regulations
11-2-4: Area Regulations
11-2-5: Space Regulations
11-2-6: Projections On Open Spaces
11-2-7: One Building Per Lot
11-2-8: Previously Recorded Lots
11-2-9: Street Access Required
11-2-10: Interference With Traffic
11-2-11: Exceptions; Time Limit
11-2-12: Rezoning Of Public Areas
11-2-13: Annexations
11-2-14: Accessory Buildings
11-2-15: Fences
11-2-1: STREETS AND BOUNDARIES:
All streets, alleys and railroad right of ways, if not otherwise specifically
designed, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property immediately
abutting upon such alleys, streets or railroad right of ways. Where the center
line of a street or alley serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such
street or alley to the center line, unless otherwise specifically designated,
shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property. (1965 Code §
11-2-1)
11-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the district in which the building or land is
located. (1965 Code § 11-2-2)
11-2-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No structure may be erected to exceed more than twenty five feet (25') the
height limits of the zone in which it is located, except as herein provided in
subsection 11-10-6B of this Title. Aerials or antennas designed to aid home
television reception may be erected to a height not to exceed sixty feet (60')
from the ground level; provided, said aerial or antenna is erected on a
building or in the rear yard area. (1965 Code § 11-2-3)
11-2-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
No building or structure other than a building for conditional use shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered except in
conformity with the area regulations of the zone in which the building is
located. (1965 Code § 11-2-4)
11-2-5: SPACE REGULATIONS:
No space which for the purpose of a building or dwelling group has been counted
or calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court or other
open space required by this Chapter, may, by reason of change in ownership or
otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or
other space requirement of or for any other building. (1965 Code § 11-2-5)
11-2-6: PROJECTIONS ON OPEN SPACES:
An open terrace, but not including a roofed over porch or terrace, may occupy a
front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a depth of
not less than fifteen feet (15'). A one story bay window may project into a
front yard not more than three feet (3'). Overhanging eaves, including gutters,
may project over the minimum required side yard not more than eighteen inches
(18"). (1965 Code § 11-2-6)
11-2-7: ONE BUILDING PER LOT:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a "lot", as defined in Section
11-1-2 of this Title, and in no case shall there be more than one such building
on one lot unless otherwise provided in this Title; provided, that in a two (2)
story garage with living quarters upon the second floor, such quarters may be
occupied by a servant (and his family) of the family occupying the main
structure. There may also be constructed a guest house (without kitchen) or
rooms for guests within an accessory building; provided, such facilities are
used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the main
structure and not for permanent occupancy by others. (1965 Code § 11-2-7)
11-2-8: PREVIOUSLY RECORDED LOTS:
Any separate lot, the title of which was of record at the time of the adoption
of this Title, that does not meet the requirements of this Title for yards,
courts or other area of open space, may be utilized for single residence
purpose; provided, the requirements for such yard or court or lot area, width,
depth or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that required by
this Chapter. The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization of
recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable living
standards can be provided. (1965 Code § 11-2-8)
11-2-9: STREET ACCESS REQUIRED:
No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land, which
does not abut upon a public street or have permanent easement for access to a
public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25') unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of
this Chapter. (1965 Code § 11-2-9)
11-2-10: INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC:
No wall, fence or shrubbery shall unreasonably obstruct or interfere with
traffic visibility. (1965 Code § 11-2-10)
11-2-11: EXCEPTIONS; TIME LIMIT:
Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this Title and upon which actual
building construction has been diligently carried on and; provided, further,
that such building shall be completed within one year. (1965 Code § 11-2-11)
11-2-12: REZONING OF PUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the official Zoning Map as a public park or recreation
area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site or semi-public open
space, shall not be used for any other purpose and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned Residence A one- family district,
until otherwise zoned. (1965 Code § 11-2-12)
11-2-13: ANNEXATIONS:
Any area annexed to the Town shall, upon such annexation, be automatically
zoned Residence A one-family district, until otherwise zoned. (1965 Code § 11-
2-13)
11-2-14: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this Title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Attached To Main Building: Where an accessory building is structurally
attached to a main building, it shall be subject, and most conform, to all
regulations of this Title applicable to the main building.
   B.   Location: An accessory building may not be located nearer than five
feet (5') to any interior lot line and not nearer than five feet (5') to the
rear lot line.
   C.   Detached Accessory Building: No detached accessory building shall be
located closer than ten feet (10') to any main building.
   D.   Erection Prior To Principal Use Prohibited: An accessory building shall
not be erected prior to the establishment or construction of the principal use
of buildings. (1965 Code § 11-2-14)
11-2-15: FENCES:
Fences must be erected on or within property lines.
   A.   Shall be installed with the finished side facing the adjacent property
or public right-of-way, and the fence posts must be located on the inside of
the fence facing the property on which the fence is located.
   B.   Material permitted for residential and commercial zones. All fences in
residential and commercial zoning districts shall be constructed from materials
which are commonly used for fencing. No fence shall be constructed from
railroad ties, wood pallets, tires, rubble, metal panels, or salvaged material.
Commonly used fence materials include wood, brick, stone, split railing, chain
link wire, vinyl, ornamental iron work. Any materials not listed are subject to
special review. (Ord. 191, 2-12-2024)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENCE ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENCE A ZONE
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Use Regulations
11-3A-2: Building Height
11-3A-3: Areas
11-3A-4: Dwelling Standards
11-3A-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence A Zone:
Accessory buildings, provided they shall be located as required by this Title.
Conditional uses, subject to the provisions of this Title.
Dwelling, one-family.
Gardening, truck and other horticultural uses, where no building is involved
and not operated for profit.
Golf courses, except driving tees, ranges, miniature courses and similar uses
operated for commercial purposes.
Home occupations, as herein provided.
Parking space, automobile, to be provided as required in Section
11-7-1 of this Title.
Sign, one, on each lot not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area,
pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or premises on which the sign
is located.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, including permitted home
occupations, as provided herein. (1965 Code § 11-3-1)
11-3A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained in the Residence A Zone to exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height. (1965 Code § 11-3-2)
11-3A-3: AREAS:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure, in
the Residence A Zone shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following described yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than thirty five feet (35'). Where lots comprising forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting streets are
developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of not more than
twenty feet (20') in depth, the average of such front yards shall establish the
minimum front yard depth for the entire frontage. In no case shall a front yard
of more than fifty feet (50') be required.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   On interior lots there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than ten feet (10') and a combined total of side yards of
not less than twenty five feet (25').
      2.   On corner lots, the side yard requirements shall be the same as for
interior lots, except that there shall be maintained a side yard of not less
than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the
street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
      3.   On a reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a setback from
the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required
on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setback need not exceed
twenty feet (20'). No accessory building on a reversed corner lot shall project
beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located
nearer than ten feet (10') to the side lot line of an adjacent lot.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less a fifty feet (50').
   D.   Lot Coverage: Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by main buildings, structures or accessory buildings.
   E.   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a
width at the established building line of not less than seventy five feet
(75'); provided however, that a single lot having less area and width, the
title to which has been recorded before the enactment of this Chapter, may be
improved with a single-family dwelling, provided all yards and open spaces are
within seventy five percent (75%) of those required herein and; provided
further, the total lot area is not less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet.
   F.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards; provided, no buildings are
closer to the lot lines than ten feet (10'); provided further, that on a corner
lot, accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front or side yards
adjacent to the abutting streets. (1965 Code § 11-3-3)
11-3A-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   One-Story Dwelling: Every one-story dwelling erected in any Residence A
Zone shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls,
including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches,
garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that rooms intended for
such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor areas.
   B.   More Than One-Story Dwelling: Every dwelling of more than one story
erected in any Residence A Zone shall have a total floor area, measured from
the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than one thousand six hundred
eighty (1,680) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that
rooms intended for such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor
areas. (1965 Code § 11-3-4)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENCE B ZONE
SECTION:
11-3B-1: Use Regulations
11-3B-2: Height
11-3B-3: Areas
11-3B-4: Dwelling Standards
11-3B-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence B Zone:
Any use permitted in the Residence A Zone.
Two-family dwelling structures. (1965 Code § 11-4-1)
11-3B-2: HEIGHT:
No building shall be erected or enlarged in the Residence B Zone to exceed a
height of two and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height. (1965 Code § 11-4-2)
11-3B-3: AREAS:
No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure be enlarged or
altered in the Residence B Zone unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yard: Eight feet (8') to twenty feet (20').
   C.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Lot Coverage: Forty percent (40%).
   E.   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered to accommodate
two-family dwelling units shall be on a lot having a width at the established
building line of not less than sixty feet (60') and an area per dwelling unit
of not less than three thousand seven hundred fifty (3,750) square feet. One-
family dwellings may be erected or structurally altered on lots having an area
of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   Accessory Buildings: Uses customarily incident to any of the above
uses, including permitted home occupations, as provided herein. (1965 Code §
11-4-3)
11-3B-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   Two-Family Structures: Each family dwelling unit in two- family
structures erected, converted or reconstructed in any Residence B Zone shall
have a total ground floor area of not less than six hundred fifty (650) square
feet, measured from the outside of the exterior walls including utility rooms,
but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages and other spaces that
are not used frequently or during extended periods for living, sleeping or
eating purposes, except that rooms intended for such purposes which are
"roughed in" and are to be completed within a reasonable time may be considered
in computing such ground floor areas.
   B.   More Than One Story: Every dwelling of more than one story erected,
converted or reconstructed in any Residence B Zone shall have a total floor
area, measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than eight
hundred fifty (850) square feet including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, sleeping or eating purposes, except that
rooms intended for such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor
areas. (1965 Code § 11-4-4)
ARTICLE C. RESIDENCE C ZONE
SECTION:
11-3C-1: Use Regulations
11-3C-2: Height
11-3C-3: Areas
11-3C-4: Dwelling Standards
11-3C-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence C Zone:
Any use permitted in the Residence A and B Zones.
Boarding or lodging houses.
Clubs, lodges or fraternal organizations when not operated for profit.
Multiple dwellings and apartments.
Nursing or rest homes.
Row dwellings containing three (3) or more family units.
Two-family dwelling structures. (1965 Code § 11-5-1)
11-3C-2: HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered in the Residence
C Zone to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty
five feet (35') in height. (1965 Code § 11-5-2)
11-3C-3: AREAS:
No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained in the Residence C Zone unless the following
yards or lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such
structures or enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than five feet (5') and a combined total of side yards of
not less than fifteen feet (15').
      2.   On corner lots, the side yard on the intersecting street side shall
not be less than ten feet (10').
      3.   On a reversed corner lot, there shall be a side yard on the street
side of the corner lot of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard
required in the lots in the rear of such corner lot. No accessory building on a
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard line required on the
lot in the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line
of such lot.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') for interior lots and not less than fifteen feet (15') for corner lots.
   D.   Lot Coverage: Not more than forty five percent (45%) of the area of a
lot may be covered by buildings or structures.
   E.   Lot Area: Every building erected or structurally altered as a multiple
dwelling, apartment or row dwelling of more than two (2) dwelling units shall
provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet. No building erected or structurally altered shall have a
total lot area of less than six thousand (6,000) square feet, nor a lot width
of less than sixty feet (60'), except that single-family dwellings may be
erected or structurally altered on lots having an area of not less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of
not less than forty feet (40').
   F.   Accessory Buildings: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the Residence A Zone. (1965 Code § 11-5-2)
11-3C-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
All multiple-family dwelling units erected, converted or reconstructed shall
contain not less than three hundred (300) square feet of usable floor area,
exclusive of basements, cellars, unfinished attics, open porches and garages.
(1965 Code § 11-5-3)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL D ZONE
SECTION:
11-4A-1: Use Regulations
11-4A-2: Conditional Uses
11-4A-3: Height
11-4A-4: Areas
11-4A-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Commercial D Zone:
Agricultural implement sales and service conducted wholly within completely
enclosed buildings.
Apartments, provided they are located above the first floor and above a
business use permitted in this District.
Auction rooms.
Auditoriums.
Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants.
Billiard and pool rooms.
Business and professional offices.
Hotels.
Launderettes and laundromats.
Meat market or poultry stores, if no slaughtering or stripping is involved.
Motels.
Pet shops or animal hospitals when conducted wholly within enclosed buildings.
Places of amusement.
Printing and bookbinding.
Restaurants.
Retail commercial business.
Schools.
Taverns or retail sale of alcoholic liquors, subject to the regulations of
other provisions of this Code.
Temporary buildings incidental only to construction of a permitted use.
Theaters, indoor (not including outdoor theaters).
Tourist homes.
Undertaking establishments.
Wholesale commercial business. (1965 Code § 11-6-1)
11-4A-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Automobile or trailer sale lots may be permitted in the Commercial D Zone
whenever such use is specifically authorized by the Zoning Commission. (1965
Code § 11-6-2)
11-4A-3: HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
Commercial D Zone to exceed a height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed
forty five feet (45') in height. (1965 Code § 11-6-3)
11-4A-4: AREAS:
No front or side yards shall be required except that when a building or group
of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a yard shall be provided on the
side of the lot abutting the residential district, such yard having a width of
not less than ten feet (10'). There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not
less than fifteen feet (15') when abutting upon a public thoroughfare and not
less than twenty feet (20') when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the
rear of the lot. The rear yard may be used for off-street parking and loading
as provided in this Title. (1965 Code § 11-6-4)
CHAPTER 5
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL E ZONE
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Use Regulations
11-5A-2: Height
11-5A-3: Areas
11-5A-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Industrial E Zone:
Machine shops.
Maintenance shops.
Manufacturing.
Processing, food.
Processing, materials.
Storage.
Wholesaling.
Any other manufacturing or processing establishment that can be operated
without creating objectionable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes or vapor
and that has a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining
properties. (1965 Code § 11-7-1)
11-5A-2: HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
Industrial E Zone to exceed a height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed
forty five feet (45') in height, except as provided in this Title. (1965 Code §
11-7-2)
11-5A-3: AREAS:
   A.   Ground Area; Occupancy: The maximum ground area occupied by all
buildings in the Industrial E Zone shall be not more than seventy five percent
(75%) of the area of the lot or tract on which a building permit has been
issued.
   B.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
fifty feet (50') where there shall be no structure of any kind, open storage of
materials nor equipment.
   C.   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than five
feet (5') and a combined total of not less than fifteen feet (15') on both
sides of the building or buildings, but where the property is adjacent to a
residence zone there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty five feet
(25') on the side nearest to the residential lot. The parking of private
automobiles may be permitted within the side yard areas, but not closer than
five feet (5') to any lot zoned for residential use.
   D.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon a
residence zone in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty
five feet (25') and no materials or equipment shall be stored within twenty
five feet (25') of any residential lot or lots. (1965 Code § 11-7-3)
CHAPTER 6
TRAILER T ZONE
(Rep. by Ord. 187, 2-8-2020, eff. 3-8-2020)
CHAPTER 7
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-7-1: Parking Space Requirements
11-7-2: Minimum Requirements
11-7-3: Joint Use Of Facilities
11-7-4: Permit Required
11-7-5: Special Permit For Residential Zone
11-7-6: Off-Street Loading Facilities
11-7-1: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area: For the purpose of this Chapter, one hundred eighty (180) square
feet of lot or floor area, which has a means of ingress or egress from an alley
or street, shall be deemed parking space for one vehicle. Such space shall not
occupy any part of any required front yard, but where open may be included as a
part of a required open space for side or rear yard. On corner or through lots,
parking space may not be included as part of required yards lying adjacent to
either street.
   B.   Surfacing: Such parking spaces and access driveways required in
residential districts, when used in compliance with the provisions of this
Title, shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all-weather, dust-proof
material. That part of the driveway connecting from the curb line to the
property line shall be paved with concrete or asphaltic materials.
   C.   Nonresidential Uses; Screening: Parking areas serving nonresidential
uses of property shall be hard surfaced and graded so as properly to drain off
all surface water. When such parking areas or lots abut upon adjacent
residential properties, there shall be provided a wall or solid screen planting
of appropriate shrubs to a height of not less than four feet (4') along the
entire boundary, common to both the residential and parking areas. Lights used
to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as to reflect lighting
away from the adjoining premises in a residential district. Such parking spaces
shall be reserved for the sole use of the occupants of the building or lots and
their customers. Churches, theaters, stadiums, auditoriums and other places of
assembly may make arrangements for joint use of parking spaces as hereinafter
specified. (1965 Code § 11-9-1)
11-7-2: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In any zone, every building erected or structurally altered, enlarged or
increased in capacity, and every land use shall be provided with minimum off-
street parking facilities as follows:
Dwellings: one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple-family           1 parking space for each dwelling unit.
dwellings
Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and       1 parking space for each 4 guest
fraternal homes                         sleeping rooms.
Hospitals                               1 parking space for each 4 hospital
                                        beds.
                                        1 parking space for each transient
                                        sleeping room offered for tourist
Tourist homes                           accommodation in addition to parking
                                        spaces required for permanent residents
                                        of the building.
Tourist court and motels                1 parking space for each unit.
                                        1 parking space for each 5 seats or
                                        bench seating spaces, based upon
                                        maximum seating capacity. For the
                                        purpose of this type of use, parking
                                        spaces already provided to meet off-
                                        street parking requirements for stores,
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,      office buildings and industrial
stadiums, theaters and other places of  establishments, or off-street parking
public or private assembly with fixed   facilities provided by the Town, lying
seats                                   within 300 feet of the place of public
                                        assembly as measured along the lines of
                                        public access, and not normally in use
                                        or made available for other parking,
                                        may be used to meet up to 75 percent of
                                        the total requirements of parking space
                                        for places of public assembly.
                                        1 parking space for each 200 square
Dance halls, bowling alleys and         feet of floor area, to be provided on
private clubs                           the premises or within 300 feet of the
                                        entrance.
                                        15 parking spaces on the premises, plus
Funeral homes                           5 spaces for each area which can be
                                        used as a parlor.
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of store space, to be provided on
                                        the premises or within 200 feet of the
Stores and other retail establishments  entrances and off of the street, except
where such uses are permitted, except   that restaurants or establishments
in the Commercial D Zone                whose primary use is to serve meals and
                                        refreshments to patrons shall provide
                                        one parking space for each 100 square
                                        feet of floor space in the building.
Wholesale and distributing
establishments including telephone      1 parking space for each 3 employees.
exchange
                                        1 parking space for each 5 employees,
                                        based on the greatest number of
Manufacturing establishments            employees at one time, to be provided
                                        on the premises or at other off-street
                                        locations within 1,000 feet of the main
                                        entrance.
 
Parking space required under this Chapter may be reduced by the Zoning
Commission at a time when the capacity or use of a building is changed in such
a manner that a new use or capacity would require less space. Such reduction
may not be below the standards set in this Chapter.
Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas. (1965 Code
§ 11-9-2)
11-7-3: JOINT USE OF FACILITIES:
The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where major
parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different hours;
provided, that parking spaces will be available for each use in accordance with
standards specified in this Chapter and that the owners agree in writing that
any subsequent sale or division of the property or change in use thereof will
not interfere with the joint use of the parking facilities. (1965 Code § 11-9-
3)
11-7-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each application for a building
permit or certificate of compliance. The completion of the improvements for
parking according to such plan shall be a requisite for the validity of the
permit or certificate. (1965 Code § 11-9-4)
11-7-5: SPECIAL PERMIT FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONE:
The Town Council may authorize a special permit to allow a parking lot in a
residence zone for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this Chapter,
subject to the following limitations:
   A.   Public Notice; Hearing: Public notice must be given and a public
hearing held by the Zoning Commission on the request for a special permit in
the same manner in which said notice is given and such hearing is held on a
request for a variance.
   B.   Owners Notified: Notice must be given by registered mail to all owners
of property within three hundred feet (300') of the land for which the special
permit is sought.
   C.   Front And Side Yard Requirements: A special permit shall not be granted
unless the application shows and warrants that, in the proposed development of
the parking area, the front and side yard requirements will be maintained.
(1965 Code § 11-9-5)
11-7-6: OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof, to be used for other than
dwelling purposes, or as an accessory use for dwelling purposes, there shall be
provided on the lot adequate space for motor vehicles in order to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets or alleys. Such space, unless
otherwise adequately provided for, shall include a ten foot by twenty five foot
(10' x 25') loading space, with fifteen feet (15') height clearance and one
such space shall be provided for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or
fraction thereof of floor or lot area used for other than residence purposes.
(1965 Code § 11-9-6)
CHAPTER 8
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-8-1: House Number
11-8-2: Announcement Signs
11-8-3: Advertising Signs
11-8-1: HOUSE NUMBER:
Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and illuminated only by the
reflector method, placed back of the building line, and so erected that the
light source is not visible from outside of the premises are hereby permitted,
subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Residence A Zone: In Residence A Zone, a sign bearing only the house
number and the name of the occupant.
   B.   Residence B, C Zones: In Residence B and C Zones, a sign bearing the
house number and the name of the occupant or building, or indicating the
existence of an enterprise is hereby permitted on the premises. (1965 Code §
11-10-1)
11-8-2: ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNS:
Signs not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area and illuminated only by the
reflector method, placed back of the building line, and so erected that the
light source is not visible from outside the premises, will be permitted as
follows:
   A.   Residential Zones: In Residence B and C Zones.
   B.   Sale, Rental Or Lease: A sign advertising only the sale, rental or
lease of the building or premises on which it is maintained.
   C.   Charitable Or Religious Announcement: An announcement sign or bulletin
board for the use of a public, charitable or religious institution occupying
the premises.
   D.   Nonconforming Use Lawfully Maintained: An advertising sign in
connection with a lawfully maintained nonconforming use. (1965 Code § 11-10-2)
11-8-3: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Advertising signs are hereby permitted as follows:
   A.   In Commercial D Zone.
   B.   Limited to advertising the goods sold or services rendered on the
premises. (1965 Code § 11-10-3)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Existing Uses
11-9-2: Continuance Of Existing Uses
11-9-1: EXISTING USES:
The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption of
this Title may continue although such use does not conform to the regulations
specified by this Title for the zone in which such land or buildings are
located, subject to the following conditions and specifications:
   A.   Value Less Than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars: A nonconforming use of land,
wrecking yard or junkyard or any nonconforming building with an assessed
valuation of less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be made to
conform to this Title within a period of two (2) years.
   B.   Cease Of Use: Any nonconforming use of land or building which had
ceased by discontinuance or abandonment for a period of three (3) months shall
thereafter conform to this Title.
   C.   Destruction: Any nonconforming building which has been destroyed or
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or by a public enemy to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) or more of its assessed valuation shall thereafter conform
to the provisions of this Title. Where more than fifty percent (50%) of the
assessed value of the building remains after such damage, such structure may be
restored to the same nonconforming use as existed before such damage.
   D.   Moving: No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to any other
part or parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the time of the
adoption of this Title.
   E.   Changes: The use of a nonconforming building may be changed only to a
use conforming to the zone in which the property is located.
   F.   Signs, Billboards: Any nonconforming signs or billboards shall be
removed within a period of one year from date of the enactment of this Title.
(1965 Code § 11-11-1)
11-9-2: CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES:
Nothing herein shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or lawful
use of any existing building, except as may be necessary for the safety of life
and property and except as specifically provided in this Title. (1965 Code §
11-11-2)
CHAPTER 10
PERMITS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-10-1: Zoning Officer
11-10-2: Duties Of Zoning Officer
11-10-3: Use Permit
11-10-4: Certificate Of Compliance
11-10-5: Change Of Use Requires Certificate Of Compliance
11-10-6: Conditional Uses
11-10-7: Setback Line; Public Buildings
11-10-8: Zoning Act Makes No Change In Other Acts
11-10-1: ZONING OFFICER:
There is hereby created the office of Zoning Officer, an administrative office
of the Town, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the Town Council, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority. (1965 Code § 11-12-1)
11-10-2: DUTIES OF ZONING OFFICER:
It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of this Title and such other duties as the
appointing authority may require. (1965 Code § 11-12-2)
11-10-3: USE PERMIT:
No change shall be made in the use of a building or part thereof now or
hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use of land now or
hereafter occupied, without a use permit having first been issued by the
enforcing officer. No such use permit shall be issued to make such change
unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this Title. (1965 Code § 11-
12-3)
11-10-4: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be occupied and used until a certificate of compliance has been
issued by the Zoning Commission. The certificate of compliance shall be issued
only after the Zoning Officer reports a finding that the building has been
erected or structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this
Title and other health and building regulations. (1965 Code § 11-12-4)
   B.   Application For Certificate: A certificate of compliance shall be
applied for coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be
issued within ten (10) days after the erection or alteration of such building
shall have been satisfactory completed.
   C.   Records Maintained: A record of all certificates shall be kept on file
in the office of the Zoning Officer and copies shall be furnished, on request,
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected. (1965 Code § 11-12-4)
11-10-5: CHANGE OF USE REQUIRES CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: The use of a building already erected at the time this Title
becomes effective shall not be changed to some other use or occupied for any
other purpose, unless the owner applies for and receives a certificate of
compliance.
   B.   Public Notice; Hearing: On all matters of concern or interest to
citizens generally which would involve the change of use or occupancy for a
purpose to which there might be general objection, the Zoning Commission shall
issue public notices at least five (5) days in advance of a public hearing, at
which all interested parties shall be heard and then a decision shall be made
by the Zoning Commission on the question of issuing such permit or imposing
such restrictions or conditions as the Zoning Commission shall require after
such hearing. (1965 Code § 11-12-5)
11-10-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   The use conforms to the objectives of the Master Plan and the intent of
this title; and
   B.   Such use will not adversely affect nearby properties or their
occupants; and
   C.   Such use meets density, coverage, yard, height, and all other
regulations of the zone in which it is to be located, unless otherwise provided
for in this title; and
   D.   Has operating characteristics that are compatible with the surrounding
area in the term hours of operation, outdoor lighting, noise and traffic
generation, adequate parking not to block other surrounding parking, no junk
vehicles; and
   E.   A public hearing will be held by the city council after the required
legal notice has been given, and the public has been given a chance to be heard
upon matter. (Ord. 188, 7-12-2021, eff. 8-9-2021)
11-10-7: SETBACK LINE; PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
The Zoning Commission shall have the power to alter the required setback line
in case of public or semi-public buildings after a public hearing and after a
showing that such action will not cause damage and will be in accord with the
general purpose of this Title. (1965 Code § 11-12-7)
11-10-8: ZONING ACT MAKES NO CHANGE IN OTHER ACTS:
The Town Council hereby declares that it is its intention that this Title does
not repeal any existing laws in regard to fire limits, buildings, sanitation or
otherwise. (1965 Code § 11-12-8)
