WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-4, passed 6-2-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-379
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE CITY OF WHITE SULPHUR
SPRINGS, MONTANA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NO INCLUDED
THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN
SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
WHEREAS, the City of White Sulphur Springs has maintained an official Municipal
Code since at least 1968; and
WHEREAS, the last official codification of that code was apparently done in
1985; and
WHEREAS, since that time, there have been numerous alterations to that code;
and
 WHEREAS, the City of White Sulphur Springs has contracted with Sterling
Codifiers, a Member of AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION to review, re-
order, revise and update the code, and such has been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Commission of the City of White
Sulphur Springs Montana, that:
   Section 1
The complete system of the City of White Sulphur Spring's positive law,
carefully arranged and officially promulgated, attached to this Ordinance as
Attachment A, entitled "City of White Sulphur Springs, Montana Code of
Ordinances" (hereinafter referred to as "the Code"), and as modified by
Attachment B attached hereto and incorporated herein as if set forth below, to
be published by Sterling Codifiers, a Member of AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
CORPORATION in 2022, and consisting of Titles 1 - 10, each inclusive, is hereby
adopted. All footnotes, comments, and edits on the Code as reflected in
Attachment A and Attachment B shall be removed after final adoption of this
Ordinance and prior to publication.
   Section 2
Repealer.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before September 1, 2020, which are not included in the attached Code or
recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby repealed.
   Section 3
The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive
any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4
Additions or amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate
the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code, shall be
deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes
the additions and amendments.
   Section 5
Ordinances adopted after September 1, 2020, including Ordinance 378 (Amending
former Title 5, Chapter 22 as to Marijuana and Medical Marijuana) that amend or
refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as
if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
   Section 6
Severability. If any provisions of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
the other provisions of this ordinance which may be given effect without the
invalid provision or application and, to this end, the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable.
   Section 7
EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be effective thirty (30) days after second
reading and final adoption as provided by law.
   PASSED by the City Council and the City of White Sulphur Springs, Montana,
on first reading at a regular session thereof held on the ______day of
___________, 2022.
                                       __________________________________
                                       Rick Nelson, Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________________
Michelle Stidham, City Clerk
   PASSED, ADOPTED, AND APPROVED by the City Council and the City of White
Sulphur Springs, Montana, on second reading at a regular session thereof held
on the ______day of ___________, 2022.
                                       __________________________________
                                       Rick Nelson, Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________________
Michelle Stidham, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
___________________________________________
City Attorney
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.   WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS CITY CODE
      
2.    SAVINGS CLAUSE
      
3.    DEFINITIONS
      
4.    GENERAL PENALTY
      
5.    OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
      
6.    MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
7.    OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
8.    ELECTIONS
      
9.    CITY COURT
CHAPTER 1: WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS CITY CODE
Section
1.1.1 Order creating municipality
1.1.2 Title of code
1.1.3 Rules for construction
1.1.4 Amendments
1.1.5 Catchlines and notes
1.1.6 Altering code
1.1.7 Severability
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 27, passed 12-2-1968 and Ord. passed 11-4-
1957
§ 1.1.1 ORDER CREATING MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   (1)   The returns of the election held at the City on April 14, 1888,
by vote upon the question of the incorporation of the town as a City of the
second class, was examined and the ballots counted. The result was as follows:
55 persons voting—48 ballots for incorporation—7 ballots against incorporation.
      (2)   It was accordingly resolved that the territory embraced in the
petition of John Potter and others, filed March 5, 1888, be and the same is
hereby declared a City of the second class under the name of White Sulphur
Springs and embracing the S 1/2 SE 3/4 Section 12, the NE 1/4 Section 13 T 9 N
R 6 E, Lot 4 and the SE 1/4 SW 1/4 Section 7 and the NW 1/4 Section 18, T 9 N R
7 E, to be divided into two wards.
      (3)   All that portion of said territory, north of a line running from
the west line of said territory easterly through the center of the Main Street
according to the association plat, to the west line of the Jonas Higgins plat,
thence north to the center of Main Street according to the Jonas Higgins plat,
thence easterly through the Main Street according to the Jonas Higgins plat to
the east line of said territory to be known as the First Ward, or Ward Number
One.
      (4)   All that portion of said territory south of said line to be known
as the Second Ward, or Ward Number Two. (Commissioners Journal Book 4, Page
604).
   (B)   The City is now organized as a town, pursuant to the provisions of §
11-201 of the Revised Codes of the State of Montana for 1947, to wit: as a
municipal corporation having a population of 300 but less than 1,000; and
whereas, it now appears by the Certificate of Hannah M. Brady, Clerk and
Recorder of Meagher County, dated the eighth day of October, 1957, the census
of 1950, it manifestly appears to the Council of said corporation that it has
the requisite population to entitle it to be classified as a City of the third
class, pursuant to the provisions of said § 11-201, R.C.M., 1947; be it
therefore resolved and by this resolution declared that the Town of White
Sulphur Springs, Meagher County, Montana, be and it hereby is advanced to a
City of the third class, effective immediately.
(1985 Code, § 1.02.010)
§ 1.1.2 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   This compilation, revision and codification of the general ordinances
of the City of White Sulphur Springs is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official Code of Ordinances of the City of White
Sulphur Springs.
   (B)   Said code shall hereafter be known and cited as the “Official Code of
the City of White Sulphur Springs”, and a copy or copies of such code in
printed form shall be received without further proof as the ordinances of
permanent and general effect of the City, in all courts and administrative
tribunals of this state.
   (C)   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth in full the section
or sections of the code being amended, and this shall constitute a sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement that no ordinance or any section
thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new ordinance sets forth the
revised ordinance or amended section in full.
   (D)   Any and all ordinances of a general nature hereinafter enacted shall
comply with the provisions of the Montana Code Annotated, and shall be
integrated with this code by appropriate title, chapter and section numbering.
In all cases other than those excepted for operation of the 30-day limit
imposed by M.C.A. § 7-5-4203, all ordinances enacted after the adoption of this
code shall be posted in three public places in the City of a period of not less
than 20 days prior to the effective date thereof.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.1.3 RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of the official code and all ordinances amendatory
thereof or supplementary thereto, the following rules shall be observed unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
legislative body or repugnant to the context.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever, by any of the provisions of the official
code, an intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it is
sufficient if an intent appears to defraud any person, association or body
politic, or any combination of person.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions herein
contained prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned or aiding or abetting the person shall
be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
   (C)   Title of sections and divisions. The title of any section or division
of this official code shall be deemed in no wise to restrict, qualify or to
limit the effect of the provisions set forth and contained in such section or
division.
   (D)   Constitutionality; effect of. Should any portion of this official code
be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
void, such adjudication shall in no way affect the remaining portion of this
code.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.1.4 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this code of
ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, division or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
§ 1.1.5 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the code of ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and division), editor’s notes, cross-references and
state law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the code of ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the contents of
a section.
§ 1.1.6 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the code of ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code of
ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
§ 1.1.7 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision or part of the code of ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, the adjudication will not affect the validity of
the code of ordinances as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(1999 Code, § 1.11)
CHAPTER 2: SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section
1.2.1 Effect of repealing ordinances; savings
§ 1.2.1 EFFECT OF REPEALING ORDINANCES; SAVINGS.
   The repeal of ordinances as provided shall not affect any right which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred or any action or proceedings as
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed, or the tenure of
office of any person holding office at the time when such ordinances take
effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance thereby have the effect of
reviving any ordinance therefor repealed or superseded.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS
Section
1.3.1 Definitions
§ 1.3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural. Words used in the present
include the future. Gender neutral language will be employed, thus all neutral
terms contemplate the masculine, the feminine and non-binary. The word “person”
includes bodies politic and corporate, partnerships, associations and
corporations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, affording secondary
means of access to abutting property.
      CHIEF OF POLICE. The chief law enforcement officer for the City. May also
be referred to as SHERIFF.
      CITY. The City of White Sulphur Springs, Montana.
      CLERK. The City Clerk of White Sulphur Springs, Montana.
      CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Municipal Code of the City of White Sulphur
Springs, Montana
      COUNCIL. The City Council of White Sulphur Springs, Montana.
      COUNTY. Meagher County, Montana.
      DAY. Shall be any 24-hour period from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight.
      KNOWINGLY. Imparts only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the
act or omission within the provisions of these chapters. It does not require
any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LAND, REAL ESTATE and REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements,
hereditaments, water rights, possessory rights and claims.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
      MINUTES. The written record of an official proceeding.
      MONTH. A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Impart a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in the person’s own concern.
      OATH. Includes “affirmation” and the word “swear” includes the word
“affirm”. Every mode of oral statement under oath or affirmation is embraced in
the term “testify” and every written one in the term “depose”.
      OCCUPANT or TENANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      OFFICER. Includes officers and boards in charge of departments and the
members of such boards, and such reference or use of the word “municipality” or
“City” shall mean this City. CLERK or TREASURER and others shall mean the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
      OFFICIAL TIME. Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in
current use within the City.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      PROPERTY OWNER. A person owning private property in the City as shown by
the County Auditor’s plats of the City.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Includes in its meaning, but is not restricted to, any
city-owned open place, such as parks and squares.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any and all property owned by the City or held in the
name of the City by any of the departments, commissions or agencies within the
City government.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Includes highways, streets, alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
      QUARTER. Any three-month period, ending with the last day of March, June,
September and December.
      SHALL. Mandatory, MAY is discretionary.
      SIDEWALK. The surfaced portion of the street between the edge of the
traveled way, surfacing or curb line and the adjacent property line, intended
for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE. Includes any name, mark or sign written with the intent to
authenticate any instrument of writing.
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      STATUTES or LAWS. The latest edition of the Montana Code Annotated, as
amended.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way
or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to
injure another or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITING. Includes printing, writing, typewriting or other act of
reproducing a design on a surface by any process.
      YEAR. Any one calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
   (C)   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a board or officers, shall be construed as
giving such board or officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing
to be done.
   (D)   Whenever in this code it is provided that anything must be done, to
the approval of or subject to the direction of the enforcing officer, this
shall be construed to give such officer only the power to determine whether the
rules and regulations established in this code have been complied with and
shall not be construed as giving such officer discretionary powers.(Ord. 361,
passed 4-18-2017)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
1.4.1 General penalty
1.4.2 Execution of a fine
1.4.3 Civil, criminal and traffic
§ 1.4.1 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance of the City
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a misdemeanor or
an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the doing of any act
is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no
specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person upon conviction for
the violation of any such provision of this code of ordinances shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed six
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for each such offense. Each day
any violation of any provision of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   In the construction and interpretation of this section, the revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or penalty so as
to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   There must be imposed, for every violation of city ordinance, a fee as
set by the Council by resolution for each misdemeanor and a separate fee as set
by the Council by resolution for each misdemeanor involving services to a
victim. If the costs of prosecution include services to the victim, the
separate fee may be waived by the court for imposition of the actual costs of
such services. The charges shall be paid to the court and are in addition to
any fines imposed, and may not be used to determine or establish jurisdiction.
The fees may not be imposed if the court finds the defendant is or will be
unable to pay the fees within a reasonable period.
   (D)   The court may impose upon a defendant as a part of a sentence some
part or all of the costs of prosecution involved in the case in addition to any
other fines or fees described herein. Such costs of prosecution shall be as
defined in M.C.A. § 25-10-201 or successor provision, plus costs of witnesses,
costs of jurors and costs of supervision. Any costs in addition to those
identified in M.C.A. § 25-10-201 must be limited to the actual costs incurred
by the City in prosecuting a particular charge per case as set by the Council
by resolution. The fees may not be imposed if the court finds the defendant is
or will be unable to pay the fees within a reasonable period.(Ord. 360, passed
4-18-2017, § 1.16.010)
§ 1.4.2 EXECUTION OF A FINE.
   (A)   If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as a
judgment in a civil case.
   (B)   If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment until fine be paid, the
defendant must be committed to the custody of the proper officer, and be
detained until the judgment is complied with. The imprisonment must not exceed
one day for every $20 of the fine.(Ord. 360, passed 4-18-2017, § 1.16.020)
§ 1.4.3 CIVIL, CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC.
   All city ordinances dealing with civil, criminal and traffic shall have bond
set according to the State Supreme Court bond schedule for the same and like
offenses.(Res. 567, passed 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 5: OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
Section
1.5.1 Official map
1.5.2 Corporate seal; design
1.5.3 Numbering of buildings
1.5.4 Method of numbering buildings
1.5.5 Method of naming alleys
1.5.6 Block numbers
1.5.7 Size and placement of numbers
1.5.8 Addressing requests
1.5.9 [Reserved]
1.5.10 Official newspaper
1.5.11 Depository
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 31, passed 12-2-1968
§ 1.5.1 OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the City is on file in the office of the City Clerk and is hereby
declared to be the official map of the City. Reference maps may be located
using the following internet addresses, but such maps are not the official map
of the City.
   (A)   State of Montana Cadastral Map: http://svc.mt.gov/msl/mtcadastral/.
   (B)   Google Map of White Sulphur Springs: https://maps.google.com/maps/
place_?q-white+sulphur+springs,+montana&hl-en&ftid-ox5344642fe37bo125:
ox7eabcc7bb5637961;_http://goo.gl/maps/Azxyd.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.5.2 CORPORATE SEAL; DESIGN.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the City shall be circular in form with inner
and outer circles. The outer circle shall be of milled design and 1-13/16
inches in diameter. The inner circle shall be of dot design and 1-3/16 of an
inch in diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two circles the
words, “WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, MONTANA” and upon the space within the inner
circle the words and date, “CORPORATE SEAL, 1888”.
   (B)   A copy of said described seal follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/253cf92860ca2c4cb1f61bc42e18ba2ae91b372c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1049.png]
 
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.5.3 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   All buildings, residential and commercial, having an entrance from any
street or alley of this City shall be assigned a number by the Meagher County
Rural 9-1-1 Addressing Specialist. All owners or agents of commercial and
residential buildings that have been assigned a number shall display said
number within 30 days after notice to do so by the Meagher County Rural 9-1-
1 Addressing Specialist. Any building which does not display the assigned
number in accordance with the requirements of this section following a notice
regarding the lack of display shall have the assigned number displayed by the
City and the cost of installation shall be added to the water/sewer billing and
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the building.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 1.5.4 METHOD OF NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   West and north sides of the roads and streets always have odd
addresses and the east and south sides of roads and streets always have even
addresses.
   (B)   Each street running north and south in the City is designated an
avenue. Each street running east and west is designated as a street.
   (C)   Each street running on the west side of Central Avenue has a prefix of
West, and each on the east side of Central Avenue has a prefix of East.
   (D)   Every avenue running east and west in the City is designated an avenue
and shall have four different suffixes as follows.
      (1)   If the avenue is north of Main Street and east of Central Avenue,
it has a suffix of northeast.
      (2)   If the avenue is south of Main Street and east of Central Avenue,
it has a suffix of southeast.
      (3)   If the avenue is north of Main Street and west of Central Avenue,
it has a suffix of northwest.
      (4)   If the avenue is south of Main Street and west of Central Avenue,
it has a suffix of southwest.
   (E)   Every street follows the same addressing scheme. Each block and
address range will correlate with the linear distance from the point of origin
of the street or avenue, such as but not limited to Central Avenue or Main
Street, and numbering will use an address range employing a "100-block"
numbering structure and shall increase numerically as the street/avenue
increases in distance from the point of origin. Each entrance for a residence
or place of business shall have a separate number, and each staircase from a
street shall have a number. Where necessary, a one-half number, such as "108-1/
2" may be used in a structure with two dwellings. If a structure has more than
two dwellings, each dwelling shall be assigned a letter such as 108A, 108B,
108C, 108D and the like.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2023-1A, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 1.5.5 METHOD OF NAMING ALLEYS.
   Every alley running east and west shall take the name of the street south of
it; and every alley running north and south shall take the name of the street
west of it. All alleys shall take the same numbers as the streets from which
they are named, being numbered by the same method as streets.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.5.6 BLOCK NUMBERS.
   Each block shall be assigned a block number as designated on the official
map maintained in the office of the Meagher County Rural 9-1-1 Addressing
Specialist, a copy of which shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk and
the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 1.5.7 SIZE AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   All numbers shall be at least three inches tall and three inches wide and
shall be placed in a conspicuous place where they can be easily seen from the
middle of the street or alley upon which the building fronts. The numbers shall
be made of a durable and clearly visible material of a contrasting color from
the background on which they are mounted.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.5.8 ADDRESSING REQUESTS.
   Requests for an official address for any real property located within the
City may be made to the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 1.5.9 [RESERVED].
§ 1.5.10 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Meagher County News, a newspaper published weekly, is hereby designated
as the official newspaper for the City.
(Ord. 361, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.5.11 DEPOSITORY.
   The depository for municipal funds shall be designated by resolution and
shall conform to Montana law.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-2-1968)
CHAPTER 6: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Council-Mayor Government
1.6.1 Eligibility
1.6.2 Number of Council members
1.6.3 Vacancy in office
Mayor
1.6.15 Qualifications
1.6.16 Mayor to be Chief Executive Officer
1.6.17 Powers
1.6.18 Mayor to act as President of Council
1.6.19 In the absence of the Mayor
1.6.20 Mayor to appoint officers
1.6.21 Mayor to negotiate late fee waivers and repayment agreements on past due
city accounts
City Council
1.6.35 Time of meetings
1.6.36 Standing committees
1.6.37 Special committees
1.6.38 Duties of committees
1.6.39 Quorum
1.6.40 President of the Council
1.6.41 Meeting called to order
1.6.42 Order of business
1.6.43 Voting; majority elects
1.6.44 Rules of Order
1.6.45 Effective date of resolutions
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see Chapter 8 of this title
   Officers and Employees, see Chapter 7 of this title
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 347, passed - -; Ords. 53-61, passed 12-2-
1968; Ord. 331, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 344, passed 6-4-1987
COUNCIL-MAYOR GOVERNMENT
§ 1.6.1 ELIGIBILITY.
   The selection and election of candidates for office within the City shall be
by at large designation for a four-year term. Only those residing within the
City limits of the City shall be eligible to stand for election for a seat as a
Council member or Mayor.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.6.2 NUMBER OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The City Council shall consist of four members and the Mayor. The four
members shall be elected by popular vote for a four-year term. The Mayor shall
be elected for a four-year term. The elected members and Mayor shall, at the
time of the adoption of these provisions, remain in office until the expiration
of their respective terms. Thereafter, the candidates shall stand for election
at the previously established staggered intervals. Each new member shall assume
their elected seat at the first regular meeting in January after their
election.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 1.6.3 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of City Council member or Mayor occurs upon
the member’s death, resignation or removal from office or other event resulting
in the individual being unable to carry out the duties of the office.   
   (B)   A vacancy in office shall result in nominations being submitted to the
Council within three weeks of the vacancy and the Council shall appoint a
replacement within 30 days of the vacancy.
   (C)   The Council shall consider those nominated at the next regular
meeting, or at a special meeting called by the Mayor, and may invite the
nominated candidates to appear before the Council to hear from the nominated
candidates. Council shall then appoint, by majority vote, a candidate to assume
the office until the next regular election, at which time the candidate shall
stand for election for the remainder of the unexpired term.    
   (D)   If the vacancy is in the office of the Mayor, the President of the
Council, if one is designated, shall assume the office of Mayor and the Council
vacancy shall be handled as described herein. If no President of the Council is
designated, the Council shall elect from among its number a replacement for the
office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 359, passed 4-18-2017)
MAYOR
§ 1.6.15 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be eligible for the office of Mayor unless such person be a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the state for at least three years,
a resident of the City or an area which has been annexed by the City for a
period of two years next preceding their election, and at least 21 years of
age. The candidate shall reside in the City during their term of office.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.010)
§ 1.6.16 MAYOR TO BE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City and shall see
that all ordinances of the City are duly respected, observed and enforced
within the City limits.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.020)
§ 1.6.17 POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have power:
   (A)   To enforce laws, ordinances, and resolutions;
   (B)   To perform duties required by law, ordinance, or resolution;
   (C)   To supervise the discharge of official duty by all subordinate
officers;
   (D)   To recommend measures to the Council;
   (E)   To report regularly to the Council on the affairs and financial
condition of the City with such recommendations as they may be deemed proper;
   (F)   To execute bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the
Council, subject to the approval of the Council;
   (G)   To prepare and present a budget for approval by the Council, and upon
approval, execute the budget so adopted;
   (H)   To nominate and appoint all non-elective officers or other employees
of the City, unless otherwise provided in this title, except that the
appointments of all non-elective officers are subject to the consent of the
Council;
   (I)   To suspend or remove, with consent of Council any non-elective officer
or other employee of the City;
   (J)   To sign all ordinances and resolutions of the Council adopted by it
and veto, in whole or in part, any resolution or ordinance, and, upon
communication to the Council of any veto, the same shall not take effect unless
the Council shall vote to override the veto by a two-thirds vote;
   (K)   To call special meetings of the Council, and when so called, state the
object of the meeting and the business of the meeting must be restricted to the
object stated;
   (L)   To bid on for the City any property sold at a tax or judicial sale
where the City is a party or interested, the amount of such bid to be approved
by a majority of the City Council;
   (M)   To procure and have in their custody the seal of the City;
   (N)   To take and administer oaths;
   (O)   Require of any of the officers of the City an exhibit of the officer's
books and papers;
   (P)   Request that the governor call out the militia to aid the Mayor in
suppressing riots or other disorderly conduct, preventing and extinguishing
fires, securing the peace and safety of the City, or carrying into effect any
law or ordinance; and
   (Q)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the Council.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.030) (Ord. 344, passed 6-4-1987; Ord. 347, passed 6-29-1987;
Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 1.6.18 MAYOR TO ACT AS PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall be present at the meetings of the Council and shall act as
the President thereof, and when there is a tie upon any question before the
Council, shall give the casting vote; shall have the power to veto any
resolution or ordinance or any part thereof; shall sign all warrants on the
City treasury and all permits or permissions granted by the Council, and all
contracts made by and on behalf of the City with any other party.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.040)
§ 1.6.19 IN THE ABSENCE OF THE MAYOR.
   In the absence of the Mayor from the City or due to an inability from any
cause to discharge the duties of the office, the President of the Council shall
exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the Mayor. In case of
absence or inability of the Mayor and President of the Council, the Council may
appoint one of its number to act in their place. The President or member of the
Council while performing the duties of the Mayor shall be styled the acting
Mayor. Any acting Mayor performing the duties of the Mayor shall be entitled to
the salary of the Mayor.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.050)
§ 1.6.20 MAYOR TO APPOINT OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall at the first meeting of the Council after the election each
year, and from time to time thereafter, appoint, subject to consent of the
Council, all necessary officers of the City and shall, in like manner, appoint
any other officers whose offices are created by ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2.06.060)
§ 1.6.21 MAYOR TO NEGOTIATE LATE FEE WAIVERS AND REPAYMENT AGREEMENTS ON PAST
DUE CITY ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City authorizes the Mayor to negotiate with those customers and
others who desire to resolve past due accounts which have accrued a late fee
with the goal of reducing past due accounts and lien filings. The Mayor shall
be granted discretion in negotiation.
      (1)   The Mayor is authorized to review the payment history, the amount
of arrearage, the amount of late fees accrued, and to consider the payment
abilities of the individual or entity requesting resolution of a past due
account.
      (2)   The Mayor is authorized to negotiate a re-payment schedule and may,
in cases wherein the Mayor believes a waiver is warranted, waive some part or
all of the accrued late fees in exchange for the re-payment of the past due
account.
      (3)   Repayment agreements shall be reduced to writing.
      (4)   Such agreements shall be secured by sufficient collateral when the
amount of the agreement is more than $500 or has been the subject of a lien
filing.
      (5)   All agreement shall be executed after appearing on the agenda and
receiving consent as required by this policy.
   (B)   When granted discretion, the Mayor:
      (1)   May not waive any of the legitimately accrued past due account
total, other than the late fees, without the consent of the City Council; and
      (2)   May seek advice and tentative consent from individual Council
members when necessary between City Council meetings in order to timely
negotiate with past due account holders.
   (C)   Waivers.
      (1)   The Mayor may waive up to six months’ worth of late fees without
the consent of the City Council. Such negotiated agreements shall be reported
to the City Council during the Mayor’s report each month.
      (2)   The Mayor may present to the City Council any request for a waiver
of less than six months’ worth of late fees, when, in the Mayor’s discretion,
the nature of the request is believed to warrant City Council discussion.
      (3)   The Mayor shall present any request for a waiver of greater than
six months’ worth of late fees on any account for approval by the City Council
by placing it on the Agenda as a “consent” item.
         (a)   Items on the Consent Agenda of any meeting may be pulled from
this Agenda and considered on the regular Agenda of the same meeting if any
Council member has a question or concern.
         (b)   Consent Agenda items are not subject to discussion, but only a
vote of consent.
      (4)   Any repayment agreement placed on the Agenda for discussion may not
be considered if the requestor or a representative of the requestor is not
present for the discussion.
         (a)   The matter may be continued one time and then the requestor
shall be required to re- negotiate the repayment.
         (b)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall send a written notice to the requestor
of the date/time of the meeting during which the agreement will be discussed.
      (5)   (a)   Any item moved for the Consent Agenda to a discussion item
when the requestor is not present may have the item considered unless the
Council member moving the item has specific questions for the requestor.
         (b)   If the item so moved in the absence of the requestor is denied,
the requestor may request reconsideration on a future Agenda when the requestor
is present.
   (D)   In any negotiation where the account has been converted to a lien
properly filed with the County Clerk and Recorder, the Mayor is authorized to
withdraw the lien filing upon execution of a signed agreement for repayment
which is properly secured by collateral, and may refile the lien in the Mayor’s
discretion, at any time after a payment is missed under the repayment
agreement.
(Res. 617, passed 1-6-2020)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 1.6.35 TIME OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold its regular meetings for the transaction of
city business on the first Monday and the third Tuesday in each month. Any
regular meeting day which falls on a holiday may be held on the next business
day or may be held on the designated day of the following week at the
determination of the Mayor or a majority of the Council. Such meetings may be
adjourned or may be continued as necessary.
   (B)   The meeting times shall be as established by resolution of the City
Council and shall be posted on the City website.
   (C)   The Mayor or a majority of the Council may designate one additional
day during the month for a work session meeting in addition to any work
sessions held during a regular meeting. Work session meetings are those
meetings wherein the City Council may examine, review, or otherwise discuss
issues of import to the City and its programs. The session is informal and no
formal action is required, although direction to staff regarding a topic may be
given as to future action. Public comment may be solicited during a work
session. The Council will not be bound by Robert's Rules of Order during a work
session. Work sessions are not required in every month if, in the discretion of
the Mayor or upon consensus of the Council at a regular meeting prior to the
scheduled work session, no business requires a work session. An item or topic
during a regular meeting may be identified as a work session. In such a case,
the provisions as to work session meetings will apply to that item or topic.
   (D)   Public hearings are those meetings required to be held pursuant to law
and shall be held after 5:00 p.m. and may be rescheduled or adjourned to a
later date and time.
   (E)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor, or at the
request of three members of the Council, after giving reasonable notice
(considered to be 48-hours notice) in writing or by email to all members of the
Council present in the City and posting a notice as required in the locations
designated.
   (F)   Emergency meetings may be called in the event of an emergency
situation, including but not limited to a storm, fire, explosion, or other
potential destruction or impairment of City property or business that affects
the health and safety of the residents, employees, or the functions of the
City. Such meetings may be convened by a majority of the Council or the Mayor
without adhering to the 48-hour notice requirement. The City Clerk shall use
reasonable efforts to inform the public of the emergency meeting.
   (G)   All meetings shall be held in a place provided by the Council, usually
the City Council chamber, unless an alternate venue is identified.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 2024-1, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 1.6.36 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the first regular meeting of the Council after the first Monday in
January in each year, the Mayor shall appoint committee members of the Council
for the ensuing year as follows:
   (A)   Committee on Finance;
   (B)   Committee on Streets and Alleys; and
   (C)   Such other committees as may be deemed necessary from time to time.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.020)
§ 1.6.37 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint such special committees as deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the City.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.030)
§ 1.6.38 DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   (A)   To the Committee on Finance shall be referred all matters relating to
the general condition, revenues and expenditures of the City, and said
committee shall audit all books of account of all the city officers and shall
investigate and report on the financial condition, revenues and expenditures of
the City, from time to time and as directed by the Council.
   (B)   To the Committee on Streets and Alleys shall be referred all matters
relating to the streets and alleys of the City and it shall investigate and
report on the condition of the same from time to time and as directed by the
Council.
   (C)   To other committees as established from time to time, the business of
the committee shall be referred and such committee shall investigate and report
on the conditions from time to time as directed by the Mayor or the Council.
When such committee has served its purpose and the purpose is no longer needed,
such committee may be disbanded.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.040)
§ 1.6.39 QUORUM.
   A majority of the member of the Council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business, but less number may meet and adjourn at any time
stated and may compel the attendance of absent members under such rules and
penalties as the Council may prescribe.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.050)
§ 1.6.40 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   At the first meeting succeeding the annual election, the Council shall elect
one of its members as President of the Council who, in the absence of the
Mayor, is the presiding officer and may perform the duties of the Mayor, and in
the absence of the President, the Council may appoint one of its members to act
in their place.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.060)
§ 1.6.41 MEETING CALLED TO ORDER.
   The Council shall convene and be called to order by the Mayor, or the
President of the Council in the absence of the Mayor, and in the absence of
both the Mayor and the President of the Council, by the City Clerk at the time
and day designated for the meeting. The Clerk shall proceed to “call the roll”
and record in the minutes the names of all members present and announce whether
or not a quorum is present.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.070)
§ 1.6.42 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At all meetings of the Council, the order of business shall be stated
in the published Agenda and shall include the following, in no particular
order:
      (1)   Minutes: reading and correcting, if necessary, and approving
minutes of last regular meeting and minutes of special or intervening meetings;
      (2)   Reports of Officers, Standing Committees, Special Committees;
      (3)   New business;
      (4)   Old or unfinished business; and
      (5)   Presentation of Petitions, Communications and Bills.
   (B)   For good cause, the Mayor may, upon motion and majority vote, change
the order of business as established by the Agenda.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.080)
§ 1.6.43 VOTING; MAJORITY ELECTS.
   The ayes and nays must be called and recorded on the final passage of any
ordinance, bill or resolution, or making of any contract and the voting on the
election or appointment of an officer must be viva voce and the majority of the
whole number of members elected is requisite to appoint or elect an officer and
such vote must be recorded.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.090)
§ 1.6.44 RULES OF ORDER.
   The proceedings of the Council shall in all cases be governed by Robert’s
Rules of Order so far as the same are applicable.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.100)
§ 1.6.45 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Any and all resolutions passed and approved by the City Council, pursuant to
provisions of the law, shall be submitted and adopted at a single meeting of
said Council and shall become immediately effective, unless a delayed effective
date is specified.
(1985 Code, § 2.08.110)
CHAPTER 7: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
1.7.1 Policy on overtime
1.7.2 Salaries
1.7.3 Bonding of officers
1.7.4 Continuing education
1.7.5 Clerk/Treasurer
1.7.6 City Attorney
1.7.7 Public Works Supervisor
1.7.8 Retirement system
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 347, passed - -; Ords. 71-73, passed 12-2-
1968; Ords. 90-92, passed 12-2-68; Ord. 98-100, passed 12-2-1968, Ord. 343,
passed 6-4-1987; Ord. 345, passed 6-4-1987; Ord. 337, passed 9-3-1985 and
amended by Ord. 339, passed 9-5-1985 and Res. 557, passed 12-3-2012
§ 1.7.1 POLICY ON OVERTIME.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City that none of its employees shall perform
any work which results in overtime or compensation time without the prior
approval of the Mayor. The exceptions to this policy under which no approval
from the Mayor is required are as follows.
      (1)   The Public Works Supervisor and any employee in the department need
not seek the Mayor’s prior approval when there is a substantial emergency with
regard to the water system, for example a break in a water main.
      (2)   One City employee, either the Public Works Supervisor or an
employee in the department, may check the water reservoir, chlorination
facility or water well once on Saturdays and once on Sundays without the
Mayor’s prior approval.
   (B)   A copy of this policy shall be distributed to all employees of the
City. Failure of any employee to follow the terms of this policy may, at the
option of the City, result in immediate dismissal from employment without prior
warning or reprimand.
(1985 Code, § 2.02.010) (Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 1.7.2 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the officers and employees of the City shall be set annually
by resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2.04.010)
§ 1.7.3 BONDING OF OFFICERS.
   All City officers shall be included in a blanket bond for the faithful
performance of their duties; said bond to be executed by a duly authorized
surety company, the premiums there on to be paid by the City.
(1985 Code, § 2.04.020)
§ 1.7.4 CONTINUING EDUCATION.
   All duly elected Council members and Mayor shall attend no less than four
hours per year of continuing education seminars on subjects pertinent to local
government issues, including, but not limited to, the following as they may
relate to city government administration, revenue, finance, bonding, insurance,
personnel, employee/employer relations, infrastructure, water, sewer, streets,
traffic, parks, recreation, buildings and building codes, fire protection,
business licensing, ethics and law enforcement.
(1985 Code, § 2.04.030)
§ 1.7.5 CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor shall, subject to the advice and consent of the
Council, appoint a Clerk/Treasurer who shall hold office for the duration of
their appointment or until their successor is appointed and qualified.
(1985 Code, § 2.10.010)
   (B)   Duties. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer:
         (a)   To receive all moneys that come to the City, either from
taxation or otherwise and to pay the same out on the warrant of the Mayor,
countersigned by the Clerk, drawn in accordance with law;
         (b)   To perform such duties in the collection of taxes, license fees
or assessments as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance;
         (c)   To present at the regular meeting of each month to the Council,
a full and detailed statement of the amounts of money belonging to the City,
received or disbursed by the Clerk/Treasurer during the preceding month and the
state of each particular fund, which statement must be verified by oath;
         (d)   To keep the books and accounts of the town in such manner as to
correctly present the condition of the finances thereof which must always be
open to the inspection of the Mayor, Council or any member thereof;
         (e)   To keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the
debits and credits thereof;
         (f)   To give every person submitting payment to the City Clerk a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, the amount and for what paid;
         (g)   To render at any time an account to the Council, showing the
money on hand and the condition of the treasury;
         (h)   To keep a register of all warrants paid, which must show the
date, amount and number and the person to whom, and the fund from which, the
same was paid;
         (i)   To annually make out and submit to the Council at its last
meeting prior to May 1, a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
during the past fiscal year and an abstract thereof must be published in the
official newspaper;
         (j)   To pay out, in the order which they are registered, all warrants
presented for payment when there are funds in the treasury to pay the same;
         (k)   To deposit all public moneys in their possession or under their
control, excepting such as may be required for current business, in any solvent
bank or banks located in such City, subject to national supervision or state
examination, as the Council shall designate, and no other;
         (l)   To attend all meetings of the Council, to record and sign the
proceedings thereof and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions and contracts
passed, adopted or entered into, and to sign, number and keep a record of all
licenses, commissions or permits granted to authorized by the Council;
         (m)   To record all ordinances, resolutions and bylaws passed and
adopted by the Council;
         (n)   To enter in a book kept for that purpose the date, amount, the
person in whose favor and for what purpose the warrants are drawn upon the City
treasury;
         (o)   To countersign and cause to be published or posted, as provided
by law, all ordinances, bylaws or resolutions passed and adopted by the
Council;
         (p)   To file and keep all records, books, papers or property
belonging to the City and to deliver the same to their successor when
qualified;
         (q)   To prepare and process financial statements as required by state
law;
         (r)   To take and administer oaths, but must not charge or receive any
fees therefor; and
         (s)   To perform such other duties as the Council may prescribe, or as
may be prescribed by state law.
      (2)   City Clerk to be “Treasurer”. Any reference to the City Treasurer
in this code shall mean the City Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 2.10.020)
§ 1.7.6 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor, subject to the consent and approval of the
Council, shall appoint a City Attorney who shall hold office for the duration
of their appointment or until their successor is appointed and qualified.
(1985 Code, § 2.14.010)
   (B)   Qualification; term of office.
      (1)   In order to be appointed City Attorney, the person shall be a
person who has been licensed to practice as an attorney in this state.
      (2)   The Attorney shall hold office for two years, unless suspended or
removed as provided by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 2.14.020)
   (C)   Duties. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to attend before the City
Court and other courts of the City and the District Court and prosecute on
behalf of the City. They shall, when required, draw, for the use of the
Council, contracts and ordinances for the government of the City and, when
required, give to the Mayor or City Council written opinions on questions
pertaining to the duties and rights, liabilities and powers of the City. They
shall perform such other duties as pertain to the functions of the City Council
or as the City Council may prescribe by resolution.
      (2)   For such services, the Attorney shall receive a salary and fees as
may be fixed by the Council by ordinance or resolution. Nothing herein shall be
taken or construed as preventing the Council from employing other and
additional counsel in special cases and providing for the payment of such
services.
      (3)   The City Attorney may be suspended or removed from office by the
City Council for neglect, violation or disregard of their official duties.
(1985 Code, § 2.14.030)
§ 1.7.7 PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor may appoint, with the approval of the Council,
a Public Works Supervisor who shall hold office for the duration of their
appointment or until such time as they shall be removed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Public Works Supervisor shall have charge of all City works as
follows.
         (a)   Streets and alleys. They shall supervise the grading, surfacing,
repair and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
         (b)   Sewer. They shall supervise the installation and maintenance of
all sewer lines in the City, except the installation of sewer projects which
are accomplished by contract.
         (c)   Water. They shall supervise the installation and maintenance of
all water mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract.
      (2)   They shall supervise all City equipment and Public Works employees.
         (a)   Equipment. They shall have charge of and supervise the repair
and upkeep of all public
works equipment.
         (b)   Employment and supervision. They may employ with prior consent
of the Mayor and the Council such help as is needed to carry on the work of the
City such help to be directly under their
supervision.
      (3)   The Public Works Supervisor shall present to the Council, at its
regular meeting each month, a report, whether oral or written, as to the public
work accomplished each month and, as far as can be foreseen, public work
planned for the current month.
(1985 Code, § 2.18.020) (Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 1.7.8 RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Authorization of officers. The Mayor and City Clerk/Treasurer are
hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City to make and enter into an
appropriate agreement with the State Board of Equalization of the state; and to
execute and deliver to the State Board of Equalization such plan or agreement
required under § 3 of Chapter 44 of the Social Security Act to extend coverage
to employees and officers of the City and to do all other things necessary to
effectuate coverage of employees under the Old Age and Survivors’ Insurance
System of the Social Security Act.
(1985 Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Deduction from salaries. The Clerk is hereby authorized to establish a
system of payroll deductions to be matched by payments of the City to be made
into the contribution fund of the Social Security Act through the State Board
of Equalization, and to make charges of this contribution to the fund, or
funds, from which wages or salary payments are issued to the employees of the
City. Such payments are to be in accordance with the provisions of § 1400 of
the Federal Insurance Contribution Act on all services which constitute
employment with the meaning of the Act. Payments are made to the State Board of
Equalization shall be due and payable on or before the eighteenth day of the
month immediately following the completed calendar quarter, and such payment
which are delinquent shall bear interest at the rate of 0.5% per month until
such time as payments are made.
(1985 Code, § 2.32.020)
   (C)   Appropriation of funds. Appropriation is hereby authorized for the
proper fund or funds of the City in the necessary amount to pay into the
contribution fund as provided in § 5 of the Enabling Act, Chapter 44 referred
to, and in accordance with the plan or plans and agreement; such agreement
contemplated by this chapter shall in all respects comply with the terms and
provisions of said Chapter 44 and with paragraph 218 of the Social Security
Act.
(1985 Code, § 2.32.030)
CHAPTER 8: ELECTIONS
Section
1.8.1 Elections in accordance with state statutes
1.8.2 Qualifications of electors
§ 1.8.1 ELECTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATE STATUTES.
   All primary and general elections will be held in accordance with statutes
of the state.
(1985 Code, § 1.08.010)
§ 1.8.2 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Any person shall be qualified to vote in any and all elections provided they
are a resident of the City or an area which has been annexed and certified as
such by the Clerk and Recorder of the county.
(1985 Code, § 1.08.020)
CHAPTER 9: CITY COURT
Section
1.9.1 City Court established
1.9.2 City Judge
1.9.3 Qualifications
1.9.4 Term of office
1.9.5 Salary and expenses
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 341, passed 5-4-1987; Ord. 343, passed 5-
4-1987, and amended by Res. 479, passed 12-6-1999
§ 1.9.1 CITY COURT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a City Court of the City of White Sulphur Springs
pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 11 of the Montana Code Annotated. (M.C.A. §§ 3-11-
101 et seq.) The court is established for all intents and purposes set forth in
state law and any reasonable inference therein.
   (B)   The City Court will be in session at times and on days established by
the court except nonjudicial days. On judicial days established by the Judge
with the concurrence of the City Council, the City Court must be open for all
business, civil and criminal. On nonjudicial days, which are defined as any
legal holidays; days appointed by the President of the United States or by the
Governor of Montana for a public fast, thanksgiving, or holiday; or days
outside the established times and hours for the court, except as otherwise set
forth by this part, the court may transact criminal business only.
   (C)   The City Court will, on any day:
      (1)   Give instructions to a jury when deliberating;
      (2)   Receive a verdict or discharge a jury;
      (3)   Exercise its powers in a criminal action; and
      (4)   Issue writs of prohibition, injunctions and habeas corpus.
   (D)   In the event the City Council determines to eliminate the City Court,
the City Council shall act in accordance with Title 3, Ch. 11, part 2 of the
Montana Code Annotated to appoint the justice of the peace of the County.
(1985 Code, § 2.12.010) (Ord. 343, passed 5-4-1987; Res. 479, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 1.9.2 CITY JUDGE.
   (A)   The office of the City Judge is hereby established for the City. The
City Council shall appoint a City Judge, who shall serve a term of four years
coextensive with the election of the justice of the peace.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy in the office, the duly elected, appointed
or acting justice of the peace of Meagher County may be designated and
appointed as City Judge of White Sulphur Springs until such time as the vacancy
shall be filled by appointment or the office shall be eliminated.
   (C)   The City Judge shall have all power, duty and authority to act as City
Judge to the full extent permitted by law or ordinance.
   (D)   In the event the City Court should be eliminated by the City Council,
then the City Council shall act to appoint the duly elected, appointed or
acting justice of the peace of Meagher County to serve in the capacity.
(1985 Code, § 2.12.020) (Ord. 343, passed 5-4-1987; Res. 479, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 1.9.3 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Judge shall possess the qualifications for office required by law
for a justice of the peace under Title 3, Ch. 10, Part 2 of the Montana Code
Annotated. And, in addition, shall:
   (A)   Be registered to vote in Meagher County; and
   (B)   Be subject to a background check at the time of appointment and shall
not have any felony conviction upon their record.
(1985 Code, § 2.12.030) (Ord. 343, passed 5-4-1987; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -
2022; Ord. 2025-4, 6-2-2025)
§ 1.9.4 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office for the City Judge is coextensive with the term of office
of the justice of the peace, including the remainder of a term filled by
appointment.
(1985 Code, § 2.12.040) (Ord. 343, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 1.9.5 SALARY AND EXPENSES.
   The monthly salary of the City Judge shall be set by resolution and included
in the City budget. The City Council shall, in the event of a vacancy in the
office or in the event of the elimination of the City Court, enter into an
agreement with Meagher County to pay for a proportionate share of the training,
travel or other expenses of the justice of the peace then acting as the City
Judge.
(1985 Code, § 2.12.050) (Ord. 343, passed 5-4-1987)
TITLE 2: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    MUNICIPAL FUNDS
      
2.    PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS; FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS
CHAPTER 1: MUNICIPAL FUNDS
Section
2.1.1 Transfer of funds
2.1.2 Capital Improvement Program Fund
2.1.3 NSF or rejected payment policy
§ 2.1.1 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Transfers of funds within a budget group may occur with approval of the
Mayor if under $1,000. Transfers over $1,000 must be approved by Council.
Transfers of funds between budget groups may not occur without a discussion of
the budget transfer at a Council meeting and a vote of Council to authorize the
transfer for all amounts under $5,000. Amounts over $5,000 requires a formal
budget amendment through passage of a resolution. All transfers shall be
reported to the City Council at the next Council meeting unless previously
approved by Council.
(1985 Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 70, passed 12-2-1968)
§ 2.1.2 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate fund, pursuant to M.C.A. § 7-6-616,
which shall be known as the "Capital Improvement Fund". This fund shall be for
the replacement, improvement, and acquisition of property, facilities, or
equipment which costs in excess of $5,000, and that has a life expectancy of
five years or more. The City shall develop policies for such fund and that
policy may be amended from time-to-time as necessary to meet governmental
accounting standards.
   (B)   A Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) shall be formally adopted by the City
Council during a regular meeting. This plan is required for direction of
expenditure of any Capital Improvement Fund dollars. The CIP may be amended or
updated from time-to-time as necessary to address the needs of the City, and to
address funds from specific sources, such as grant money, loans, or donations.
Budget amendments shall be brought before the Council as necessary to properly
account for expenditures and changes within the CIP and the fund.
   (C)   The Capital Improvement Fund may receive money from any source,
including funds which have been allocated in any year but have not been
expended or encumbered by the end of a fiscal year. Funds not expended within a
given budget year may be carried over until expended.
   (D)   The money in this fund must be invested as provided by law, and
interest and income from the investment must be credited to the fund.
   (E)   Projects utilizing money within this fund shall be designated by the
Council through the budget appropriation process or as amended by resolution of
the Council.
   (F)   The Council may, from time-to-time, create line-item designations for
the funds within the budget to address and track specific projects or long-term
or continuing needs of the City.
(1985 Code, § 3.04.020) (Ord. 340, passed 11-6-1985; Ord. 2024-3, 11-19-2024)
§ 2.1.3 NSF OR REJECTED PAYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The City may accept one or more of the following forms of payment:
check; electronic payment; debit or credit card; money order; cash. The City is
not obligated to accept any form of payment other than cash. The City is not
obligated to accept payment in coin only. In the event the submitted form of
payment is rejected or returned to the City indicating the payment is being
returned for “non-sufficient funds”, “NSF” or some other rejection by the
institution of the customer, the customer shall be charged a minimum handling
fee as set by the Council by resolution for each such transaction, and may be
charged for any bank fees additionally incurred by the City. If the City is
required to resort to collection of the dishonored check or draft or payment,
the City reserves the right to collect the debt under the law, including
requesting damages and attorney fees incurred.
   (B)   If any check or other payment has been returned/rejected, the City
will no longer accept such form of payment from said customer, and all future
transactions must be by cash, money order or certified bank check. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall maintain a list of customers for whom payment by check or
electronic means has been suspended.
   (C)   After one year, the customer may file a written request regarding this
payment status. The written request will be considered by the Clerk/Treasurer
and the Mayor and the customer’s name may be removed from the suspension list
in the sole discretion of the Mayor. The Clerk/Treasurer will provide the
customer with a written answer to the request within ten business days of
receipt of the request. If there is no answer, such request is deemed rejected.
Such request will not be considered at any City Council meeting, and the status
of such customer will not be raised at any City Council meeting or published
for reasons of privacy unless a judgment is entered in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Res. 597, passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 2: PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS; FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS
Section
2.2.1 Public records request policy
2.2.2 Fee schedule
2.2.3 Exemptions
§ 2.2.1 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST POLICY.
   (A)   Records requests shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Each record request shall detail the specific record requested, and
shall provide a name, address, telephone number and other information necessary
to fulfill the request.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall determine if the request is for a routine or non-
routine public record. Routine records are those records which are routinely
prepared for the public and made available on a regular basis, including, but
not limited to: documents which are prepared for promotional or advisory
reasons or are prepared for general distribution (i.e., ordinances,
resolutions, minutes, agendas, brochures, pamphlets and applications). Non-
routine records are those records which are not generally prepared for mass
distribution, but may be a part of a regular business transaction within a city
department.
   (D)   Non-routine records requests will be forwarded to the individual
department and may be forwarded to the City Attorney for review prior to
release of the records.
   (E)   Any record request which may result in the disclosure of information
which is not public information will be reviewed by the City Attorney before
dissemination, and privacy information and information which is not public
information will be redacted before release. Information which is not “public”
includes, but is not limited to: confidential business or trade secrets;
copyrighted material; proprietary financial information; and information which
is not considered public under applicable law.
   (F)   The response to a request for records will be sent within a reasonable
amount of time, based on the nature of the request. This includes a
notification regarding the lack of a specified record, a request for more
information to process the request, a denial or notification regarding a delay
in processing the request.
   (G)   Electronic record requests will be handled on a case-by-case basis.
Certain restrictions on dissemination of electronic records may require
negotiation of a Digital File Use Agreement to comply with disclosure of
proprietary public information.
   (H)   No new document or record will be created to respond to a records
request. Applicable records may be made available for an individual requester
to compile their own data, subject to law, including the legal restrictions
regarding creation of mailing lists from public records. See Title 2, Ch. 6,
Part 10 Montana Code.
   (I)   Computer or electronic records will be made available pursuant to
Title 2, Ch. 6, Part 10 Montana Code. The City shall notify the requester of
the hourly rate to be charged per the fee schedule before proceeding with
processing the request, allowing the requester the right to cancel the request.
   (J)   This section does not supersede any rules of evidence or rules
governing the production of information or documentation in the course of
litigation.
(Res. 566, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 2.2.2 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   No fee will be charged for financial transactions meeting the policy.
   (B)   Charges for paper copies of non-routine public records shall be at a
rate as set by the Council by resolution for material which can be found and
copied in ten minutes or less. Material which takes more than ten minutes to
locate and copy shall be charged at a rate as set by the Council by resolution.
   (C)   A City department, board, committee or agency may establish fees for
specific records contained in their departments, such as maps, plats and the
like. Such fee schedule shall be approved by the Mayor and posted in each
department. For records not specific to a department, the departmental fee
schedules should not conflict with the specific charges listed in this chapter.
   (D)   Copies of electronically stored records provided in electronic format
will be charged as follows (see Title 2, Ch. 6, Part 10 Montana Code):
      (1)   The City’s actual cost per unit of the electronic media used to
provide the public record. For security purposes, the City will provide all
blank media;
      (2)   Expenses incurred by the City as a result of computer processing
charges;
      (3)   Expenses incurred by the City for providing on-line computer
access; and
      (4)   Out-of-pocket expenses directly associated with the request.
   (E)   Records provided to other governmental agencies may be provided on a
“reciprocal” basis at the discretion of the Department Director responsible for
the record. Records requested by sitting members of Council will be provided
without charge when the requested record can be located and provided via
electronic means and takes no more than a half-hour of staff time. If the
records cannot be provided by electronic means or take more than a half-hour of
staff time to locate and reproduce, the cost of such search and the
reproduction of the records shall be referred to the Mayor to ensure the budget
has not been exceeded before reproduction. The requestor will be contacted if
the cost of locating and reproducing the record(s) exceeds $50 so the requestor
may weigh whether to pursue the request. Requests by former members of Council
are subject to the same costs as other requests by the public, even if the
requestor was a sitting member of the Council at the time the event for which
the records are being requested was occurring.
   (F)   Payment for charges must be received before delivery of the records to
the requester. A Department Director may make accommodations for payment by
entities frequently requesting records.
   (G)   The Mayor may waive fees when a requester has demonstrated payment of
the fees required under this chapter will result in undue hardship.
(Res. 566, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 2.2.3 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following public records are exempt from public disclosure unless
required by court order or dissemination is required pursuant to specific
statutory authorization:
   (A)   Library patron records (M.C.A. § 22-1-1103);
   (B)   Medical records (M.C.A. § 7-1-4144);
   (C)   Personnel records concerning a current or former employee or applicant
for employment which would disclose the individual’s home address, home
telephone number, Social Security number, marital status, payroll deductions,
insurance coverage or other privacy information;
   (D)   Performance evaluations (M.C.A. § 7-1-4144);
   (E)   Certain donor records including financial or physical donations where
the donor requests to remain anonymous;
   (F)   Ownership or pledge of public obligations (M.C.A. § 17-5-1106);
   (G)   Criminal justice records or city court records (M.C.A. §§ 44-5-301
through 44-5-311);
   (H)   Vehicle accident reports (M.C.A. § 61-7-114);
   (I)   Insurance information (e.g., M.C.A. § 50-63-403);
   (J)   Information related to medical marijuana registry information (M.C.A.
§ 50-46-332); and
   (K)   Any other records held or maintained by the City made confidential by
law.
(Res. 566, passed 3-3-2014)
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.    LICENSES
      
3.    ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
4.    ADVERTISING AND BILL POSTING
      
5.    CONTRACTORS’ BOND
      
6.    MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
3.1.1 License
3.1.2 Fees
3.1.3 Prohibited sales; prosecution
3.1.4 Hours of closing
3.1.5 Restrictions
§ 3.1.1 LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages without first having secured a license from the City to
engage in such retail sale of alcoholic beverages within the City. A City
license will not be issued without proof of a state liquor license. The City
will apply the definitions found in Title 16, Ch. 1, Part 1 of the Montana Code
in reviewing any application for a City license.
(1985 Code, § 5.08.010)
§ 3.1.2 FEES.
   (A)   Any person who is now or hereafter becomes the holder of a license to
sell beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages, duly issued by the State
Department of Revenue, Liquor Division, shall, before engaging in such retail
sale, obtain a license from the City authorizing such retail sales, and shall
pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer a fee as set by Council by resolution.
   (B)   All licenses are due and payable on July 1 of each year.
   (C)   All licenses shall expire on July 1 of the year following issuance.
(1985 Code, § 5.08.020) (Res. 508, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 3.1.3 PROHIBITED SALES; PROSECUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to sell, deliver or
give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away, any
alcoholic beverages to:
   (A)   Any person of an age not sufficient to lawfully purchase or possess
alcoholic beverages under state law;
   (B)   Any intoxicated person, or any person actually, apparently or
obviously intoxicated; or
   (C)   Any person who is otherwise prohibited or restricted from purchasing
or possessing alcohol.
(1985 Code, § 5.08.030)
§ 3.1.4 HOURS OF CLOSING.
   (A)   All licensed establishments wherein alcoholic beverages are sold,
offered for sale or given away at retail shall be closed on any day between 2:
00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   During such times it shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or give
away alcoholic beverages, and during such hours all persons except the owner
and employees shall be excluded therefrom; provided, however, that when a
licensed establishment is operated in conjunction with a hotel, restaurant, bus
depot, railway, terminal, grocery store or other lawful business other than
that of the sale of alcoholic beverages, then such other lawful business need
not be closed, but only the part thereof where such alcoholic beverages are
sold.
(1985 Code, § 5.08.040)
§ 3.1.5 RESTRICTIONS.
   The closing or locking of doors or the drawing of blinds while permitting
customers to remain in the place of business after the closing hours herein
provided shall not be considered as closing within the meaning of this chapter
and shall constitute a violation of this code.
(1985 Code, § 5.08.050)
CHAPTER 2: LICENSES
Section
3.2.1 Policy
3.2.2 Compliance required
3.2.3 Definitions
3.2.4 Business license or registration certificate required
3.2.5 Qualification for business license; exemptions
3.2.6 License application
3.2.7 Licensing fee
3.2.8 Revocation of license
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 330, passed 3-15-1983; Ord. 332, passed 4-
2-1984, and amended by Ord. 347, passed 8-3-1987
§ 3.2.1 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to require a license for
the operation of a business within the City limits. This policy is an exercise
of the general police powers of the City for the promotion of the health,
safety, and welfare of the community in conformance with and authorized under
Title 7 of the Montana Code Annotated.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.010) (Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 3.2.2 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the requirement of this chapter that all businesses operating
within the City limits be properly registered and/or licensed in the City and
licensed according to federal law, the laws of Montana, and the requirements of
their respective industry. When other licenses are required beyond this code,
the person, business, firm, or corporation responsible for submitting an
application shall provide all necessary and applicable documentation in support
of the application.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.020) (Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 3.2.3 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters,
together with all devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein,
any of which are conducted for private profit, or benefit, either directly or
indirectly, on any premises in this City, not exempted by state law or this
chapter.
      ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT GAMES. Any electronic game or mechanical device
operated for the sole purpose of amusement of the patrons.
      GAMBLING DEVICE, BINGO OR KENO, POKER OR CARD TABLE, VIDEO DRAW POKER
MACHINE. All have the meanings found in Title 23, Ch. 5 Montana Code Annotated.
      GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock on hand, the
business will cease and be discontinued. GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALES shall be
strictly limited to stock on hand at the commencement of the sale.
      HOME-BASED BUSINESS. Any business occupation or activity undertaken for
gain within a residential structure that is incidental and secondary to the use
of that structure as a dwelling.
      LICENSE. The authority, necessary from the City, granted the person to
whom it is issued to engage in a specific business or occupation within the
City limits. This term includes a certificate of registration when the business
is otherwise licensed by the state and is exempt from further licensing.
      MARIJUANA. and USABLE MARIJUANA. Have the meanings as authorized and
defined in the Montana Marijuana Regulation and Taxation Act (M.C.A. §§ 16-12-
101 et seq.).
      MOBILE VENDORS. Any person that sells or offers for sale goods from a
mobile vending unit within the City. A transient merchant or itinerant vendor
is not a MOBILE VENDOR.
      NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any group which does not distribute pecuniary
gains, profits or dividends, and pecuniary gains are not the objective of the
organization. NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS or groups must be recognized as such by
the United States Internal Revenue Service and the state department of revenue.
      PERSON. Means and includes individual natural persons, partnerships,
joint ventures, societies, associations, clubs, trustees, trusts, or
corporations; or any officers, agents, employees, factors, or any kind of
personal representatives of any thereof, in any capacity, acting either for
themselves, or for any other person, under either personal appointment or
pursuant to law.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Means and includes any individually or collectively
owned single-family house, townhouse, apartment, or dwelling unit, or any unit
or group of units in a condominium, cooperative, timeshare, or owner-occupied
residential home, to include any space in a dwelling unit rented independently,
that is offered or provided for a fee for thirty (30) days or less to a guest,
including transient guests or tourists. Terms such as but not limited to
"vacation rental", "Airbnb", "Bed and Breakfast", and "overnight rental" are
included in this definition. This definition does not include hotels, motels,
hospitals, or nursing homes. Premises which are advertised as available for
short stays of thirty (30) days or less on sites which cater predominantly to
travelers creates a presumption that the premises is a short-term rental or
STR.
   (B)   All other terms herein shall have the same connotation as they do in
everyday common usage.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.030) (Ord. 347, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -
2022; Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 3.2.4 BUSINESS LICENSE OR REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person, business, firm, or corporation,
either directly or indirectly, to conduct or engage in any business, trade,
pursuit, profession or vocation, or to use in connection therewith any vehicle,
premises, machine, device, employee, or agent in whole or in part, for which a
license, or registration certificate, is required by any law of this state or
ordinance of this City, without a license or registration certificate, being
first procured and kept in effect and displayed at all times as required.
   (B)   The issuance of a license, or registration certificate, entitles and
authorizes the applicant to open or maintain a business in compliance with the
provisions of this code and the law of this state.
   (C)   Failure to comply shall be a violation of this chapter and may result
in a revocation of the license or certificate.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.040) (Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 3.2.5 QUALIFICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The issuance of a business license, or registration certificate, is
discretionary to the City. No business license certificate shall be issued or
held by:
      (1)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of M.C.A. § 45-5-
601;
      (2)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any law in
Montana related to trafficking under M.C.A. Title 45, Ch. 5, Part 7, or other
or similar crimes under the laws of the federal government or any state of the
United States;
      (3)   A person whose license issued under this chapter or issued by the
State of Montana has been revoked for cause;
      (4)   A person who at the time of the application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application; or
      (5)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States and who has not
been a resident of the State of Montana for at least one year immediately
preceding the filing of the application for license.
   (B)   A business license or registration certificate shall be subject to
review if the business involves a gambling device or the service of food and
beverage requiring either a food service or beverage service (liquor) license.
The City Council or the Planning Board may review the location for compliance
with any land use (zoning) regulations and/or compliance with the Growth Policy
then in existence. Such business shall have a valid state license applicable to
the business before a City business license is issued.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for the following:
         (a)   Any person or entity for any mere delivery in the City of any
property purchased or acquired in good faith from such person or entity as the
person or entity's regular place of business outside the City where no intent
by such person is shown to exist to evade the provisions this chapter;
         (b)   Any nonprofit organization as defined by this chapter;
         (c)   Any person under eighteen (18) years of age;
         (d)   Any property manager managing or renting less than three
dwelling units which do not meet the definition of an STR;
         (e)   The following professions already licensed by the state or
another licensing entity:
            1.   Attorneys;
            2.   Medical professionals, including, but not limited to:
physicians, surgeons, podiatrists, physician assistants;
            3.   Dentists/orthodontists;
            4.   Nursing homes, senior care facilities, and similar residential
care facilities;
            5.   Hospitals;
            6.   Mental health counselors or therapists;
            7.   Accountants; and
            8.   Any other profession or occupation specifically exempt by
Montana law.
      (2)   The exemptions listed in divisions (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(c),
(C)(1)(d) and (C)(1)(e) above do not apply to a transaction, use or business
involving marijuana.
      (3)   Those identified as exempt above, with the exception of (C)(1)(a)
and (C)(1)(c), shall be required to register their business with the City in
the same manner as those required to be licensed by the City. This registration
shall be used primarily for information necessary for emergency responders, and
may be used, with permission of the applicant, to provide general information
as to services available within the City.
   (D)   All applications must include a map of the location and a general
plan, typically a floor plan, for relevant items applicable to the business
such as, but not limited to, entrances/exits, fire extinguishers, safety data
items (such as oxygen storage, hazardous chemical storage, etc.).
   (E)   All owners or managers of short-term rentals or STRs are required to
comply with the following before a registration certificate may be issued:
      (1)   Complete the application as required in §
3.2.6 of this Code, and to present their Lodging Facility Sales and Use Tax
Permit (LFT) issued by the Montana Department of Revenue before a registration
certificate will be issued.
      (2)   Obtain a sign-off from the County Sanitarian and a state building
inspector indicating that there are no issues with the location.
      (3)   Post the registration certificate in a public and visible area near
a general access door.
      (4)   Post a 24/7 contact name and number in close proximity to the
registration certificate and any state license or authorization.
      (5)   May not attempt to transfer a registration certificate between a
location or owner. Registration certificates issued to an STR are for the
specific location and owner only.
   (F)   Home-based businesses.
      (1)   Shall be licensed and/or registered in conformance with this
chapter and the particular service or industry being run.
      (2)   Such businesses shall be conducted by resident occupants of the
residence.
      (3)   Should not create noise, dust, vibration, or other hazards or
nuisances which create a substantial or significant increase to the general
residential use of the neighborhood.
      (4)   Should not unreasonably impact traffic flow or off-street parking.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.050) (Ord. 347, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 3.2.6 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person applying for a business license or registration certificate
shall submit a written application on a form to be provided by the City.
   (B)   The application form shall require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and the names of any other persons financially
interested in the operation of the business or the premises upon which it shall
be located, including all contact information;
      (2)   The proposed location of the business for which the license
application is submitted, including both the street and mailing address;
      (3)   The business name associated with the location;
      (4)   Satisfactory evidence, when applicable, that the person submitting
the application is currently licensed for the sale of liquor, beer, food,
cigarettes or any other consumable product, or who has applied for such
license;
      (5)   Satisfactory evidence of any inspections required for the
particular business, to include a state building inspection for the premises;
      (6)   Proof of supporting documents such as a state license for the
business, a driver’s license, a professional or occupational license, a license
from DPHHS, and/or proof of liability insurance (certificate), for the specific
profession or service, as appropriate;
      (7)   Telephone number(s), including area code, for the owner or operator
or other emergency contact authorized to respond to an emergent situation; and
      (8)   Any other information requested of the applicant by the City
necessary to protect the publicsafety, and welfare of the citizens of the City.
This information may include information required on a “safety data sheet” or
similar form, and may be provided to emergency responders in the event of an
emergency.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.060) (Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 3.2.7 LICENSING FEE.
   (A)   Each applicant or licensee shall pay an annual license or registration
fee pursuant to a fee schedule as set by the Council by resolution.
   (B)   The license or registration is renewable upon payment of the fee and
verification and/or updating of the information on the original application
form.
   (C)   The license fee is due at the beginning of each fiscal year, or July
1. An ad shall be posted on or about May 1 and June 1 reminding businesses of
the annual renewal. Fees not paid by September 1 shall result in the suspension
of the license and a warning of termination shall be sent to the address
provided on the application for the business. Fees not paid by October 1 shall
result in automatic termination of the license. The fee is not subject to
proration unless the application is submitted after May 1. Late fees may be
imposed in accordance with the fee schedule in (A) above.
   (D)   STRs issued a registration certificate which is not used are subject
to automatic termination and are not entitled to a refund.
   (E)   A transfer fee for a license or registration, whether to transfer the
location or to transfer ownership of the business, shall be set pursuant to the
fee schedule in (A) above.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.070) (Ord. 347, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-
2024)
§ 3.2.8 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license or registration certificate is a revocable privilege and
no person holding such a license is deemed to have acquired any vested rights
therein.
   (B)   Any license or registration certificate issued pursuant to this
chapter may be revoked for any violation of this chapter, or any violation of
the qualifications set forth in §
3.2.5 of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the information establishing probable cause to believe
a violation of this chapter has occurred requiring revocation of the license or
registration certificate, the City Council shall set a time and place for
public hearing to determine if a violation of this chapter requiring revocation
or suspension is required. The licensee shall receive written notice at least
five (5) days prior to the hearing and shall have an opportunity to appear and
be heard on the alleged violation. The hearing shall be conducted in compliance
with the model procedure set forth in the Montana Administrative Procedure Act.
(1985 Code, § 5.04.080) (Ord. 330, passed 3-15-1983; Ord. 332, passed 4-2-1984;
Ord. 2024-4, passed 11-19-2024)
CHAPTER 3: ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
3.3.1 Definitions
3.3.2 Prohibition against itinerant vendors
3.3.3 License
3.3.4 Violation; penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 329; 3-15-1983, and amended by Res. 505,
passed 9-11-2006 and Res. 515, passed 1-7-2008
§ 3.3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. A consumer is one who uses and by using destroys the value of the
article purchased.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person engaged or employed in the business of
retailing to the consumers by going from consumer to consumer, without
invitation, either on the street or to their place of residence or employment,
and soliciting, selling or offering to sell, or exhibiting for sale by sample,
catalog or otherwise, or taking orders for future delivery of any goods, or a
merchandise, or for services to be performed in the future.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who brings into the City a stock of goods,
wares or articles of merchandise or notions or other articles of trade, and
locates the same in a temporary location, and who solicits, sells or offers to
sell, or exhibits for sale, such stock of goods, wares or articles of
merchandise or notions or other articles of trade is within the meaning of this
chapter a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, and such definition shall continue to apply until
such person is continuously engaged at such temporary premises for a period of
one year.
(1985 Code, § 5.06.010)
§ 3.3.2 PROHIBITION AGAINST ITINERANT VENDORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant vendor, as defined in this chapter,
to conduct any business in the City without first obtaining a license and
paying the fees as set forth herein.
(1985 Code, § 5.06.020)
§ 3.3.3 LICENSE.
   (A)   All itinerant vendors and transient merchants shall obtain a license
at the City offices by paying a fee as set by Council by resolution which shall
remain valid for 90 days from the date of issuance.
   (B)   A local non-profit organization sponsoring an event within the City
limits, at which more than one itinerant vendor is expected to sell its
products, may obtain one umbrella license by paying a fee as set by Council by
resolution, under which license vendors may sell products at the site and
location of the sponsored event.
(1985 Code, § 5.06.030)
§ 3.3.4 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Every itinerant vendor, as herein defined, doing business within the City
without a valid license shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
Upon conviction thereof, the offender shall be fined not less than $5 or more
than $200.
(1985 Code, § 5.06.050)
CHAPTER 4: ADVERTISING AND BILL POSTING
Section
3.4.1 License required for distribution of advertising or handbills
3.4.2 License application
3.4.3 Distribution in public or private locations
3.4.4 Littering streets and alleys with posters
3.4.5 Consent for posting required
3.4.6 Violation
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 156-159, passed 2-3-1969
§ 3.4.1 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING OR HANDBILLS.
   (A)   The practice of throwing, distributing, scattering and depositing
handbills, circulars, posters, printed matter, advertising literature,
advertising samples and devices, or similar material upon public and private
property in the City, without a City license and a copy of the ordinance from
the City Clerk is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   A license shall not be required for the distribution of handbills,
posters or other printed materials by or on behalf of any person seeking
election to any national, state or local political office in a public election.
(1985 Code, § 5.18.010)
§ 3.4.2 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk, together with all
necessary information, including, but not limited to, the names of all owners
and the business addresses of the same. Upon approval of said application by
the City Council, the City Clerk shall issue a license for which a fee as set
by Council by resolution shall be paid, per annum.
(1985 Code, § 5.18.020)
§ 3.4.3 DISTRIBUTION IN PUBLIC OR PRIVATE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, distribute, scatter,
deposit, pass out, give away, circulate, deliver or place upon any public place
within the City, including streets, alleys, public parks or school grounds, any
handbills, circulars, posters, printed matter, advertising literature,
advertising samples and devices, or similar material, except the same may be
personally delivered to those who are willing to accept the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, distribute, scatter,
deposit, pass out, give away, circulate, deliver or place any handbills,
circulars, posters, printed matter, advertising literature, advertising samples
and devices, or similar material, in the yard or grounds of any house,
building, structure, or on any porch or doorstep or vestibule, or in any public
hallway thereof, or upon any vacant lot or other private property, without
having first obtained the permission of the property owner or an adult resident
or occupant of the property.
§ 3.4.4 LITTERING STREETS AND ALLEYS WITH POSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, distribute, scatter, deposit,
pass out, give away, circulate, deliver or place any handbills, circulars,
posters, printed matter, advertising literature, advertising samples and
devices, or similar material upon the public thoroughfares. Nothing herein
shall be construed to authorize any person to obstruct the public thoroughfares
or create any nuisance therein. These provisions shall not interfere with or
prevent the posting of notices required by law to be posted.
(1985 Code, § 5.18.030)
§ 3.4.5 CONSENT FOR POSTING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach
any handbills, circulars, posters, printed matter or other advertising matter
to any fence, wall or building, or other property without first obtaining the
consent of the owner of such property. No person shall post, paint, tack or
otherwise attach any handbills, circulars, posters, printed matter or
advertising matter to any telegraph, telephone, electric or other such poles.
(1985 Code, § 5.18.040)
§ 3.4.6 VIOLATION.
   A person convicted of a violation under this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $100 or more than $300.
CHAPTER 5: CONTRACTORS’ BOND
Section
3.5.1 Contractors’ bond required
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 334, passed 8-8-1984
§ 3.5.1 CONTRACTORS’ BOND REQUIRED.
   All contractors and other parties who by contract provide materials and
services to the City and who are required by law to post bond for such
materials and services pursuant to the conditions and requirements of M.C.A. §
18-2-201, shall post bond in the amount of up to 100% of the entire contract
price. The bond shall be made payable to the City as determined by the request
for proposal.
(1985 Code, § 5.20.010)
CHAPTER 6: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
3.6.1 Definitions
3.6.2 Prohibited sales and distributions
3.6.3 Existing or former medical marijuana business
§ 3.6.1 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions and provisions in M.C.A. Title 16, Chapter 12, and M.C.A.
Title 45 pertaining to medical marijuana shall apply.
   EXISTING OR FORMER MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. One which conducted any of
the activities described as "medical marijuana".
(Res. 530, passed 1-24-2011; Ord. 378, passed 2-7-2022)
§ 3.6.2 PROHIBITED SALES AND DISTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Any sale or distribution of medical marijuana or adult-use marijuana
through a business entity in the City is not allowed absent a pre-existing and
valid City license and state license unless and until there is a public vote to
authorize such business held in conformance with M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12, based
on the Meagher County vote against approval of Initiative Measure No. 190 in
the November 3, 2020 election.
   (B)   Transportation of marijuana within and through the City is not
prohibited, but is allowed only on public roads by a person licensed to do so
by the state or as otherwise allowed by state law.
(1985 Code, § 5.22.040) (Ord. 378, passed 2-7-2022)
§ 3.6.3 EXISTING OR FORMER MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS.
   The following shall apply to any existing or former medical marijuana
business located within the City of White Sulphur Springs.
   (A)   License Required: Any existing or former medical marijuana business
shall possess a City license which was initially effective prior to November
2020 and which was continually renewed, and a valid and current state license
in conformance with M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12. Such business shall be registered
with the City through the Meagher County Sheriff's Office and shall display
such license in a prominent location or make it immediately available upon
request of any law enforcement officer or City official.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of section (1) above, any
application for a license within the City must be in compliance with M.C.A. §
16-12-301 or its successor provision, and the application shall include the
following:
         (a)   The name of all owners/principals of the business as applicable
and the name of all agents, contractors or employees, if any; and
         (b)   The street or physical address of the business location; and
         (c)   A detailed plan addressing how the applicant will comply with
the security requirements of this section; and
         (d)   Each application shall include the information required by the
State of Montana for issuance of a state license under M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12.
         (e)   An acknowledgment that the issuance of a license, either by the
City or the state, is a privilege and not a right, and in considering an
application for a new or renewal license, the City shall consider such factors
as:
            1.   The qualifications of the applicant;
            2.   The suitability of the proposed premises;
            3.   Whether there is an adequate safety and security plan;
            4.   Whether there has been a change to the status of such
businesses in Meagher County or the City pursuant to a public vote as required
by M.C.A. § 16-12-301 and related provisions;
            5.   Whether the business was licensed in the City and in existence
prior to November 3, 2020.
      (2)   An existing medical marijuana business shall not conduct its normal
business activities after 8:00 p.m., nor before 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   All information obtained by any City or Meagher County Sheriff's
office personnel regarding the license for an existing medical marijuana
business and to whom the license is issued shall remain confidential and shall
remain under the purview of the Meagher County Sheriff's Office or the City
personnel authorized to receive such information, who shall be strictly
prohibited from disseminating any such information to anyone other than law
enforcement officers acting in their official capacity, to authorized City
personnel, or to a party so requesting under subpoena duly issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (1)   Any person, including an employee or official of the Meagher County
Sheriff's Office or the City of White Sulphur Springs commits the offense of
disclosure of confidential information related to registry information if the
person knowingly or purposely discloses confidential information in violation
of this Chapter and M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12.
      (2)   A person convicted of disclosure of confidential information
related to registry information shall be fined not to exceed $1,000 or be
imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed six months, or both.
   (C)   Fees:
      (1)   An existing medical marijuana business which becomes the holder of
a license to conduct such existing medical marijuana business within the City
of White Sulphur Springs, and which is duly registered by the State of Montana,
shall obtain a license from the City in cooperation with the Meagher County
Sheriff's Office and shall pay an initial licensing fee of $5,000; and shall,
thereafter, pay a renewal fee of 1% of the average monthly revenue for the
previous year, but not less than $3,000. Such fees shall cover the cost to the
City for employee time related to paperwork, inspections, monitoring and
recordkeeping associated with this provision.
      (2)   All license fees shall be paid upon application for such license
and shall be paid annually on or before July 1 of each year. All licenses shall
expire on June 30 following the issuance of the license or renewal thereof.
      (3)   Operation of an existing medical marijuana business without a City
license under this code, or a violation of any portion of this Chapter shall
result in revocation of such license and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000. Other or additional sanctions may be as
delineated in M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12.
   (D)   Inspection. As a condition of receiving a business license under this
chapter, a City employee and any law enforcement officer, may, during normal
business hours, inspect any premise under license pursuant to this chapter to
determine whether the licensee is in compliance with the provisions of this
section or state law. Inspections may be announced or unannounced. Inspections
which are unannounced are limited to two a year unless a citation has been
issue within the last two years or for other just and reasonable cause.
   (E)   Security Requirements. Prior to issuance of a license under this
chapter, an existing medical marijuana business where any amount of marijuana
is stored or grown on the premises beyond normal business hours must have a
single, secured entrance for patrons and shall implement strict security
measures to deter and prevent the theft of product and unauthorized entrance in
accordance with rules established by the state. Security measures shall include
a video monitoring system as required by state law. A full plan must be
provided to the City through the Meagher County Sheriff's Office for review
prior to issuance of a license or upon request by the City upon renewal of a
license. Confirmation of the existence of such security measures are reasonable
grounds for an inspection of the premises.
   (F)   Advertising. An existing medical marijuana business shall not attach
any sign to a vehicle nor erect any sign advertising or otherwise noting its
business on any structure which is not attached to the building where such
business is allowed but shall not contain any lighting, shall not exceed three
square feet and shall be attached to the walls or windows of the building which
house the business, but shall not be elevated from the walls or windows. Any
other advertising must meet the standards established under M.C.A. § 16-12-211
or its successor provision.
   (G)   No Changes in Business Location or Activities. A license issued to an
existing medical marijuana business shall be utilized only at the location of
the business noted in the original license, nor may the business be expanded
for activities beyond that in place at the time the license was issued. Any
changes in the existing medical marijuana business or location shall require a
new application, and there is no guarantee of a new license being issued for
the new location or any change in the existing business.
   (H)   Each licensed medical marijuana business under this chapter must have
a written plan to ensure the proper disposal of any marijuana in excess of the
amount statutorily allowed under M.C.A. Title 16, Ch. 12. This plan must be
submitted to, and approved by, the Meagher County Sheriff's Office and/or the
state of Montana prior to any disposal of marijuana, including marijuana
stalks, roots, and seeds.
(1985 Code, § 5.22.050; Ord. 378, passed 2-7-2022)
TITLE 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Chapter
      
1.    [RESERVED]
      
2.   NUISANCES
      
3.   WEEDS
      
4.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
5.   NOISE
CHAPTER 1: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 2: NUISANCES
Section
4.2.1 Purpose
4.2.2 Definitions
4.2.3 Public nuisances
4.2.4 Abandoned or salvage motor vehicles
4.2.5 Liability
4.2.6 Responsibility for maintenance
4.2.7 Abatement process
4.2.8 Destruction of buildings
4.2.9 Penalty
4.2.10 Accumulations of refuse and stagnant water prohibited
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ord. 250, passed 3-3-1969, and Ords. 224-228,
passed 2-3-1969
§ 4.2.1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council hereby finds and declares the accumulation and/
or storage of anything which is injurious to health or offensive to the senses,
or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property of another, or that unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
waterway or any public park, square, street, or highway, including, but not
limited to weeds; partially dismantled buildings; abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles; machinery; trailers; or parts thereof, on
public property, or on private, non-permitted, premises is hereby declared to:
         (a)   Create a condition tending to reduce the value of private
property;
         (b)   Promote blight and deterioration;
         (c)   Invite criminal activity;
         (d)   Create fire hazards;
         (e)   Constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the
health and safety of individuals;
         (f)   Create a harbor for rodents and insects potentially injurious to
the health, safety and general welfare; and
         (g)   Create an injurious or physically offensive condition which
interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of property of another by maintaining
junk, trash, debris or salvage materials which are visible from a public
street, alley or adjoining property.
      (2)   Therefore, the presence of such items as may constitute a nuisance
on public property, including public rights-of-way, or on private, non-
permitted, premises except as allowed under other city, state or federal law,
is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance, which may be abated or addressed
in accordance with the provisions of this part.
   (B)   Nothing that is done or maintained under the express authority of a
statute may be deemed a public or private nuisance.
   (C)   An agricultural or farming operation, a place, an establishment, or a
facility or any of its appurtenances or the operation of those things is not or
does not become a public or private nuisance because of its normal operation as
a result of changed residential or commercial conditions in or around its
locality if the agricultural or farming operation, place, establishment or
facility has been in operation longer than the complaining resident has been in
possession or commercial establishment has been in operation.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The removal, stoppage or destruction of that which causes or
constitutes a nuisance, whether by breaking or pulling it down, or otherwise
destroying, or removing it.
   COMPONENT PART. Any identifiable part of a discarded, ruined, wrecked or
dismantled vehicle, including, but not limited to, fenders, doors, hoods,
engine blocks, motor parts, transmissions, frames, axles, wheels, tires and
passenger compartment fixtures.
   JUNK MOBILE HOME. A mobile home (as defined in M.C.A. § 15-24-201) which is
wrecked, ruined, dismantled or abandoned and is no longer fit for human
habitation, and includes any camper (as defined in M.C.A. § 61-1-101(6)(a)).
   JUNK NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLE. An inoperative vehicle that is not constructed
with a motor and that it is discarded, ruined, wrecked or dismantled.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, including component parts, which is
discarded, ruined, wrecked or dismantled, and is not lawfully and validly
licensed and remains inoperative or incapable of being driven. It includes a
vehicle permanently registered by the state and which meets the criteria for a
JUNK VEHICLE.
(See M.C.A. § 75-10-501.)
   MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING FACILITY.
      (1)   Means:
         (a)   A facility buying, selling or dealing in four or more vehicles a
year, of a type required to be licensed, for the purpose of wrecking,
dismantling, disassembling or substantially changing the form of the motor
vehicle; or
         (b)   A facility that buys or sells component parts, in whole or in
part, and deals in secondhand motor vehicle parts. (See M.C.A. § 75-10-501.)
      (2)   The term does not include a garage where wrecked or disabled motor
vehicles are temporarily stored for a reasonable period of time for inspection,
repairs or subsequent removal to a junkyard.
   NAVIGABLE WATERWAY. Any lake, river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   NUISANCE. An activity or physical condition which is offensive to the senses
or interferes with another person’s reasonable use and enjoyment of life or
property.
   OWNER. The owner of record or any person with legal, financial or equitable
interest in the property on which the alleged public nuisance exists at the
time of the violation.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, premises, structure or location on which a
public nuisance is alleged to exist.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Means, but is not limited to, any fence, wall, shed, deck, house,
garage, building, structure or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree,
pole, smokestack; or any excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk
subspace, dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location which in its
entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the same
is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health,
safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience,
discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more individuals in the City, in any
one or more of the following particulars:
         (a)   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community;
         (b)   By reason of being a fire hazard;
         (c)   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property; and
         (d)   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
      (2)   The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any nuisance designated in §
4.2.3.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any publicly owned or maintained highway, street, road or
alley.
   PUBLIC VIEW. As used in this chapter, means any point six feet above the
surface of the center of a public road from which a junk vehicle can be seen.
   SAFE CONDITION. A condition not involving or likely to involve danger, harm
or loss from fire and other hazards.
   SHIELDING. The construction or use of fencing or constructed or natural
barriers to conceal junk vehicles from public view.
   SUMMARY ABATEMENT. Abatement of the nuisance by the City, or a contractor
employed by the City, by removal, repair or other acts without notice to the
owner, agent or occupant of the property except for the notice required by this
chapter.
   VALID BUSINESS ENTERPRISE. A business with a license issued by the state or
the City authorizing it to conduct business, and includes, but is not limited
to, any garage or repair shop, towing facility or body shop.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.3 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Any building or structure which meets the definition of an unsafe
building or structure as provided in § 116 of the International Building Code,
or any successor provision, adopted or as may be adopted by this code;
      (2)   Any violation of or relating to the city’s subdivision and zoning
laws and regulations; and
      (3)   Any imminent life safety hazard which creates a present and
immediate danger to life, property, health or public safety.
   (B)   The following may be declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Any condition which constitutes an attractive nuisance whether
within a structure or on the premises;
      (2)   Any building or place which has been operated or maintained in a
manner that has resulted in repeated disruptive activities including, but not
limited to, disturbances of the peace, public drunkenness, drinking in public,
harassment of passersby, sale of stolen goods, public urination, theft,
assaults, batteries, acts of vandalism, excessive littering, illegal parking,
loud noises (particularly in late night or early morning hours), traffic
violations, or law enforcement detentions and arrests;
      (3)   Any condition which renders air, food or drink unwholesome,
unsanitary or detrimental to health;
      (4)   Any condition which poses a fire hazard;
      (5)   Any condition in violation of Title 5, Ch. 2 (Animal Control) of
this code;
      (6)   The ownership, maintenance or operation of a dog or animal kennel
without proper provisions for the protection of the surrounding properties from
odor and sound generated by the kennel;
      (7)   The keeping, storage, depositing or accumulation on the premises
for an unreasonable period of time of any personal property or wastes,
including, but not limited to, abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles, abandoned, wrecked or dismantled boats or vessels, automotive parts
and equipment, appliances, furniture, containers, packing materials, scrap
metal, wood, building materials, junk, rubbish, debris, dirt, sand, gravel,
concrete or other similar materials which is within the view of persons on
adjacent or nearby real property or the public right-of-way and which is
detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare. However, building
materials being used or to be used for a project of repair or renovation for
which a building/land use permit has been obtained may be stored for such
period of time as is necessary to expeditiously complete the project; and
      (8)   Any public nuisance as defined in M.C.A. § 45-8-111 or otherwise
recognized in law as constituting a public nuisance.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.4 ABANDONED OR SALVAGE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park, store, leave or permit parking or storing of
any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind, or the parts thereof, on
a City street or alley under the following conditions:
      (1)   When a vehicle has been parked for longer than five days;
      (2)   When a vehicle is otherwise deemed to be an abandoned vehicle under
this section; and
      (3)   When a vehicle is deemed to be a salvage vehicle and is: wrecked,
rusted, junked, partially dismantled, or otherwise rendered inoperative or
unsafe, and the vehicle is not attended.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park, store, leave or permit parking or storing of
any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind, or the parts thereof,
upon any public highway property for a period longer than 48 hours or private
property within the City limits for longer than five days, when the vehicle is:
wrecked, rusted, junked, partially dismantled, or otherwise rendered
inoperative or unsafe, and the vehicle is not attended, unless the vehicle is
stored in a completely enclosed building or fenced area screening the storage
from public view.
   (C)   Vehicles which are stored in connection with a motor vehicle wrecking
facility lawfully situated and licensed for the same may be exempt from the
above provided the vehicles are not stored on a City street or alley, not
parked or stored on property contiguous to a City street or alley not screened
from public view, and are otherwise parked lawfully for less than five days,
and are not impeding traffic.
   (D)   Vehicles stored in conjunction with a valid business enterprise
awaiting parts for a specific repair may be exempt from the above provided the
vehicles are otherwise validly licensed, do not meet the definition of junk or
salvage vehicle, and can be moved to another location upon request.
   (E)   The accumulation and storage of two or more vehicles, or part(s)
thereof, over a period of time, on private property within the City without a
valid permit for such accumulation and storage as a motor vehicle wrecking
facility or another valid business enterprise shall constitute a nuisance,
which is deemed detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of
the City.
      (1)   The removal of the vehicle, or part(s) of the vehicle, shall be the
joint and several duty of the registered owner of the vehicle, the owner of the
private property, and/or the lessee or other person in possession of the
private property where the vehicle or part(s) are located.
      (2)   The removal shall be to a location outside the City limits or to a
building or lot, properly fenced or screened from public view, where the
vehicle or part(s) will not be visible or accessible from the street.
   (F)   All junk vehicles of any type must be shielded from public view.
   (G)   (1)   Abandonment of a vehicle on a public highway, city street,
public or private property creates a prima facie presumption the last
registered owner of the vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable for the costs incurred in removing, storing, and disposing of the
vehicle, less the amount realized if the vehicle is sold.
      (2)   Filing a theft report with a law enforcement agency prior to the
abandonment relieves the last-registered owner of liability under this part.
   (H)   The enforcement, removal, notice and appeal requirements applicable to
abandoned or salvage vehicles may be found in Title 10, Ch. 3 of this code.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.5 LIABILITY.
   Any person who creates or maintains any nuisance, or causes the same to
exist, or any person who knowingly permits a nuisance to be created, maintained
or to exist on premises owned by that person or under that person’s control of
the owner or the occupant, lessee or holder of the property, shall be liable,
jointly or severally, as may be determined. The liability for costs shall
include any costs incurred as a result of the owner or agent of the owner
refusing access to the City or an agent of the City for purposes of inspection
of the alleged nuisance to determine the existence of a nuisance and whether it
constitutes a violation. Any fines, fees or costs which require collection may
be subject to all costs of collection, including attorney fees, or may be the
subject of a lien on the property where the nuisance was situated.
(1985 Code, § 7.02.020) (Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.6 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every owner, occupant, lessee or holder of any possessory interest in
property, including, but not limited to, real property, within the City is
required to maintain such property so as not to violate the provisions of this
code. The owner of the property shall remain liable for violations regardless
of any contract or agreement with any third party regarding such property or
the occupation of the property by any third party.
   (B)   Every owner of property within the City must maintain such property so
as to ensure the safe condition of the property, in weather-tight condition,
and secure from unauthorized entry.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.7 ABATEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Whenever a complaint is made to the City regarding the existence of a
nuisance, the Mayor shall review the information and shall cause the inspection
of the property on which it is alleged a nuisance exists. If the Mayor or the
Mayor’s agent determines a nuisance exists, and the public health, safety or
welfare may be in danger or a violation of this title exists, then abatement
procedures will be implemented. If the source of the nuisance involves the
structural integrity of a building, the Mayor may contact the City Engineer or
the State Building Inspector to determine whether the structure is unsafe.
   (B)   When there is imminent danger to the public from the nuisance, notice
to the owner, agent or occupant(s) of the property is not required and the
issue is subject to summary abatement. The Mayor shall cause to be posted on
the property subject to the abatement a notice describing the action taken to
abate the nuisance. Any costs incurred as part of summary abatement shall be
reported to the owner or agent for payment. The owner may appeal a summary
abatement, and the appeal is limited to whether the owner is liable for the
costs of abatement.
   (C)   When there is no imminent danger to the public, the Mayor shall follow
the process identified below, unless the nuisance issue involves an abandoned
or salvage or junk vehicle, in which case, the process in Title 10, Ch. 3 shall
be followed.
   (D)   Whenever any nuisance exists within the City limits and no person can
be identified as responsible for the creation, removal or abatement of the
identified nuisance, it shall be the duty of the Mayor and/or the Public Works
Division to remove, abate, or destroy the same, or cause the same to be done at
the expense of the City. Such action will be taken only after due consideration
at a City Council meeting as to the costs and process to be used unless
immediate abatement is required to avoid imminent harm.
   (E)   Process.
      (1)   Upon completion of the inspection of the reported nuisance, the
Mayor or agent shall identify the owner of the property through all available
records and, if the nuisance does not pose an imminent threat to person’s or
property, then a Notice of Violation shall be prepared, detailing the nature of
the complaint and the findings of the inspection. Photographs and other
documentation shall be assembled and a copy of the same shall be forwarded to
the owner of the property.
         (a)   The notice shall identify the address and describe the
violation.
         (b)   The notice shall require the nuisance to be abated within seven
to 14 days or up to 30 days from the date of service of the notice, depending
on the nature of the violation.
         (c)   The notice may be given by personal service by either an
employee of the City, a member of law enforcement, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by publication or posting.
      (2)   Written notice as required in this section shall be deemed to have
been given (constructive notice) when the owner or lessee of the property
either:
         (a)   Refuses to accept the prepaid, United States mail certified
letter from the City and the letter is returned from the Post Office marked
“refused”;
         (b)   The person to be notified is present in the City but the
notification letter is returned marked “unclaimed” by the Post Office. In which
case, the City may provide notice by posting or affixing the notice letter in a
conspicuous place at the main entrance or front door of the residence of the
person; or
         (c)   When the notice has been posted on the physical location of the
property in question, or when notice has been posted in the standard locations
where the City posts notices for publication for three days.
      (3)   Written notice shall include the costs of removal, storage and any
publication and other costs associated with the issue, including fines and
fees, and any estimate of the costs for the City to abate the nuisance, if
known or able to be estimated. The deadline for the owner to abate shall be
clearly stated, after which time, the City may abate the nuisance and the owner
shall be liable for all fees and costs associated with the abatement, unless a
request for hearing has been filed before the expiration of the Notice of
Violation abatement deadline.
      (4)   It shall not be a defense to the determination a public nuisance
exists that the property is boarded up or otherwise enclosed or the property
has been posted “No Trespass”.
      (5)   The record owner of the property, location or structure at the time
a Notice of Violation is issued shall be responsible for compliance and shall
be liable for any costs incurred by the City, notwithstanding the fact the
owner conveys or attempts to convey the interest in the property to another
after such Notice was issued.
   (F)   Appeal.
      (1)   Upon being served, or after constructive notice is deemed given,
the owner may file with the Mayor a written request for an extension of time to
comply or for a hearing. The request must be filed before the expiration of the
deadline for abatement. If the request for a hearing is filed after a summary
abatement, the request must be filed within 15 business days of the posting of
the Notice regarding the action of abatement.
      (2)   A request for extension of time to comply may be considered by the
Mayor or may be referred to the Planning Board, in the discretion of the Mayor.
If referred to the Planning Board, the Mayor shall provide notice to the owner
of the referral. A request for extension regarding the abatement issues must
state the grounds for making the request, must provide a timetable for
compliance, and must include any other information relevant to the issue of
compliance. The Planning Board or the Mayor shall give a minimum of 14 days
extension to allow for consideration of the request, but any further grant of
time is discretionary, and denial of an extension is not grounds for appeal.
      (3)   A request for a hearing must be referred to the City Clerk for
scheduling before the City Council. The sole issues to be considered at the
hearing are whether there is a nuisance in fact and whether additional time is
required to abate the nuisance. The hearing shall be held at the next scheduled
meeting of the City Council, according to the calendar. A request for a hearing
received on or after 10:00 a.m. of the Tuesday before the next regular meeting
of the City Council will result in the matter being scheduled for the following
regular meeting in order to comply with publication requirements for the
Agenda.
      (4)   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Council. The Council may
amend or modify the Notice of Violation and any order, or extend the time for
compliance with the abatement.
      (5)   The owner or the owner’s agent shall be present for the hearing and
shall be given an opportunity to be heard and present evidence to the Council
in the course of the hearing. The owner may present evidence as to the need for
the City to abate the nuisance, and whether the owner is responsible for the
costs of abatement in that instance. Failure of the owner or owner’s agent to
be present for the scheduled hearing will result in a finding the nuisance does
exist and the timeframe for abatement is within 14 days of the date of the
hearing.
      (6)   The City Council shall have the discretion, in instances where the
nuisance was abated by the City, to waive the cost of abatement, in whole or in
part, if in the course of the hearing, the Council finds the Notice of
Violation, or the Notice of Abatement did not conform to the code, the work in
performing the abatement did not conform to the code, or there was an error in
the computation of charges.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.8 DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
   The City Council has authority to declare any building to be a nuisance
which, in the opinion of the City Council, is so dilapidated or in such
condition as to menace the public health or safety of persons or property; and
to cause the destruction or removal of the same at the expense of the parties
creating, causing, committing or maintaining said buildings or property. The
City may levy a special assessment on the land or premises whereon the nuisance
is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the City for the cost of abating
the same.
(1985 Code, § 7.02.050) (Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.9 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to abate or otherwise remedy a nuisance after receiving
notice of the nuisance and being provided with an opportunity to abate the
nuisance may be issued a citation for the violation. Upon conviction, the
person may, for a first offense, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and
not more than $300. For any subsequent violation, the person may be subject to
the penalties described in §
1.4.1.
(Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.2.10 ACCUMULATIONS OF REFUSE AND STAGNANT WATER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to be in or
accumulate in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street or
sidewalks adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place or premises, or in
any building or shed owned or occupied by the person or for which the person
may be agent within the City limits any stagnant water or impure water, refuse,
vegetable decay or decaying substance, garbage or filth of any kind, or suffer
such yard, lot, place, building or premises to be or to remain in such
condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive smell, or to pollute or
render unhealthful the atmosphere or the premises, or thereby to be, become,
cause or create a public nuisance.
(1985 Code, § 7.08.010)
CHAPTER 3: WEEDS
Section
4.3.1 Definition
4.3.2 Cutting or removing of weeds and vegetation required
4.3.3 Failure to comply with these provisions
4.3.4 Cost of weed abatement
4.3.5 Assessing delinquent charges
4.3.6 Exemptions
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 264-266, passed 3-3-1969
§ 4.3.1 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS, within the meaning of this chapter, includes all vegetative growth
that is unsightly, troublesome, useless or a nuisance. It shall include all
weeds and vegetative growth that has been declared destructive and detrimental
to the agricultural interests. Weeds which are identified as noxious shall be
referred to the County or the State.(1985 Code, § 7.04.010) (Ord. 264-266,
passed 3-3-1969; Ord. 374, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 4.3.2 CUTTING OR REMOVING OF WEEDS AND VEGETATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is the owner of or agent for any lot or of any parcel
of land within the City limits, who permits or suffers to exist upon, in front
of, or along such shall be required to remove from the premises so owned by
said person or for which said person is the agent, which includes but is not
limited to the edges of the paved or graveled portion of the street abutting
the front or sides of the property and extending to the centerline of the alley
at the rear of the property, any growth of weeds or vegetation which is four
inches or more in height or any tree or shrub of which the limbs or branches
extend over any public sidewalk or established walking path at a height of less
than seven feet above such sidewalk or path, or which pose a direct threat to
neighboring property or structures,. Failure to remove such weeds or vegetation
shall result in the owner or agent being deemed considered guilty of
maintaining a nuisance.
   (B)   For purposes of this part, an agent is considered to be a tenant or a
property manager, but can also be any party who is authorized to act for the
property owner or has taken responsibility for the property. The property owner
is ultimately responsible for the care and maintenance of the property and all
fixtures, buildings, or vegetation or trees on the property.
   (C)   A general notice regarding this chapter shall be sent to all property
owners and their agents on or about June 15 of each year. The deadline for
compliance shall be June 30 for bringing a property into compliance. A second
notice shall be sent on or about August 1 of each year. The deadline for
compliance shall be August 15 for bringing a property into compliance. At the
election of the Mayor, the second notice may be sent only to those properties
identified as being in noncompliance with this part.
   (D)   Notices shall be mailed to the last-known address on file for the
property owner and agent of the property. The mailing address on file for
water/wastewater service or the mailing address on file for the property title
shall be relied upon for such notices. Failure to maintain a current mailing
address with the City Clerk/Treasurer or the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder
shall not exempt the owner or agent from their responsibility to bring the
property into compliance.
   (E)   A separate Notice of Violation, specifically identifying compliance
issues under this chapter, may be served upon the property at any time by
posting the same on the front door of the structure or other conspicuous
location or by personal service upon the occupant. Such Notice of Violation
shall have a deadline which shall be not less than five business days after
service.
   (F)   Any owner or agent who neglects or refuses to cut and remove or
otherwise destroy any such growth of weeds or vegetation, or to cut away and
remove or destroy such trees or shrubs impinging upon the sidewalk or path, or
constituting a direct threat to neighboring property, by the deadlines
established in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
section, and upon conviction shall be punished with a fine of not less than $50
and not more than $300, and upon a second or subsequent offense, shall be
punished as provided in §
1.4.1. Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 7.04.020) (Ord. 264-266, passed 3-3-1969; Ord. 374, passed 3-3-
2020; Ord. 2023-3, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 2025-3, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 4.3.3 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a notice has been issued to the owner, or agent of the owner,
under §
4.3.2 regarding weeds, vegetation, or trees or shrubs upon the property, or a
special Notice of Violation has been served upon the property or the owner or
agent, and the owner or agent has failed to comply with the Notice or Notice of
Violation by abating the nuisance, then the Mayor or the Mayor's agent or
contracted service shall be authorized to enter and abate the nuisance and
perform such other work necessary to render the premises in compliance with
this chapter at the expense of the property owner.
   (B)   Entry without notice may be made in the case of necessity due to the
threat to persons or property, as determined by the Public Works Supervisor or
the Mayor.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall certify the cost of the work and shall notify the
owner of the costs, for which the owner shall be liable, by mailing an invoice
to the owner. Payment is due 30 days after mailing, and if the costs are not
paid, it shall become a lien upon the property and the City Clerk shall make
all filings as required for collection, and the owner may be subject to all
costs of collection, including attorney fees.
   (D)   Alternately, the costs may be assessed as a tax on the property and
collected accordingly.
(1985 Code, § 7.04.030) (Ord. 264-266, passed 3-3-1969; Ord. 374, passed 3-3-
2020; Ord. 2023-3, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 4.3.4 COST OF WEED ABATEMENT.
   The cost of weed abatement shall be based upon an average lot size, and an
average lot size shall be deemed to be approximately one-fifth of an acre or
approximately 8,600 square feet. Lots less than this size shall be treated as
equal to this size for purposes of assessment, and lots greater than this size
shall be assessed based on the proportion of the average size to the existing
lot. For example: a lot of between 8,601 and 12,900 square feet shall be
charged at one and one-half times the rate, while a lot between 12,901 and
17,200 square feet shall be charged at twice the rate; and a lot equal to an
acre shall be charged five times the rate. The rate assessed shall be set by
the City Council by resolution. (Ord. 375, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 4.3.5 ASSESSING DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   The City may include weed abatement as part of the annual resolution
assessing delinquent accounts.
   (B)   The resolution shall provide:
      (1)   The property owner’s name;
      (2)   The property owner’s mailing address;
      (3)   The property street address;
      (4)   The property legal description; and
      (5)   Parcel number of the property in question. (Ord. 375, passed 9-1-
2020)
§ 4.3.6 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A property owner or agent may request an exemption from abatement by
filing a written request at City Hall for review by the Mayor.
   (B)   A request shall specify the location of the property, whether the
individual making the request is the property owner or the agent of the owner,
the reason or reasons for the request, with supporting documentation as
applicable, and any other information the individual believes to be relevant to
the request.
   (C)   The request must be received at least one week prior to the deadline
for abatement as stated in the notice. The Mayor may visit the property during
business hours to visually inspect the issues present.
   (D)   Any exemption is considered and granted on a case-by-case basis and
does not obligate the City to extend the same exemption to the same individual
or another individual or property under the same or similar circumstances
whether in the same year or subsequent years. Denial of an exemption is not
subject to appeal to the City Council.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 2-21-2023)
CHAPTER 4: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
4.4.1 Definitions
4.4.2 Containers and disposal of other items
4.4.3 When charges due
4.4.4 Contract and fee
4.4.5 Transportation of garbage
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ord. 355, passed 8-5-1991
§ 4.4.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE AND TRASH. Includes non-putrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible wastes and nonputrescible wastes, including,
but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, construction and
demolition wastes; dead animals, including offal; discarded home and industrial
appliances; and wood products or wood byproducts and inert materials. SOLID
WASTE does not mean municipal sewage, industrial wastewater effluents, mining
wastes regulated under the mining and reclamation laws administered by the
Department Of Environmental Quality, slash and forest debris regulated under
laws administered by the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation, or
marketable byproducts. (1985 Code, § 7.06.010)
§ 4.4.2 CONTAINERS AND DISPOSAL OF OTHER ITEMS.
   No owner or occupant of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon their premises any garbage or refuse except in covered
containers approved by the Public Works Supervisor or Mayor or other designated
officer. Such containers shall be strong, not easily corrodible, rodent- proof,
with two handles, a capacity of not more than 30 gallons, with tight covers,
which shall be in place at all times except when depositing or removing garbage
therefrom. Such containers shall be maintained in a sanitary condition at all
times and shall be kept in a rack or device as to prevent them from being
overturned by animals. In the event that garbage and one or more types of
refuse are disposed of separately, separate containers must be had if required
by the Public Works Supervisor, the Mayor or by order of the City Council.
Boxes, papers, tree cuttings and all odd articles shall be crushed and/or
bundled in lengths no to exceed five feet and not to exceed 50 pounds in
weight, except articles taken in special hauls.
(1985 Code, § 7.06.020) (Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 4.4.3 WHEN CHARGES DUE.
   All charges for the removal of garbage, refuse and trash by the City or its
contractor shall be due and owing with the annual assessment of taxes and shall
be assessed with the taxes in the manner provided by law. The charges for the
removal of garbage shall be assessed against each residence, apartment house
and trailer house within the City. (1985 Code, § 7.06.030)
§ 4.4.4 CONTRACT AND FEE.
   (A)   The Council may license or authorize by contract one or more
independent collectors of garbage, trash and refuse within the City. No license
shall be issued to any applicant or contract let to any person for the hauling
of garbage, trash and refuse, except in conveyances equipped with watertight,
leak- proof bodies provided with tight-fitting covers. All such licensees or
contractor shall operate such conveyances with such covers or doors closed at
all times except during the actual process of depositing garbage, trash and
refuse into or out of the conveyance. All such conveyances shall be cleaned and
disinfected at regular intervals of not less than once every week. No person
shall operate any such conveyance in such a manner as to spill any of the
contents upon the public thoroughfares. Failure to conform to the requirements
of this section by any licensee or contractor shall be cause for revocation of
the license or cancellation of the contract.
   (B)   Licenses to operate and engage in the hauling of garbage, trash and
refuse within the city shall be issued at the discretion of the council upon
payment of a license fee to be established by the City Council by resolution,
and presentation of facts indicative of the applicant's ability to properly
execute such collection. No person shall engage in the business of collecting
garbage, trash and refuse unless licensed as herein provided.
   (C)   There shall be one licensee granted permission to haul garbage in the
City, who shall be the contractor as contemplated by this statute. In addition
to the singular privilege of contracting with the City for the removal and
disposal of garbage and/or refuse originating from private residences, the
contractor shall have the independent authority to contract with various
businesses within the City on such basis as said contractor shall find
equitable, and shall be solely responsible for the collection of fees from such
businesses.
(1985 Code, § 7.06.040) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 4.4.5 TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall transport, transfer or haul garbage of any type,
except for rocks, concrete, bricks and similar solid material, or plaster, in
any vehicle unless the garbage is placed or deposited in a container with a
tight-fitting cover, or is otherwise secured, so as to prevent such garbage
from blowing, leaking, sifting or otherwise leaving the vehicle during such
transportation, transferal or hauling.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of maintaining or
permitting a public nuisance and is therefore guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1 of this code. (1985 Code, § 7.06.050)
CHAPTER 5: NOISE
Section
4.5.1 Purpose
4.5.2 Findings
4.5.3 Scope
4.5.4 Definitions
4.5.5 Loud noises prohibited
4.5.6 Exceptions
4.5.7 Emergency exception
4.5.8 Enforcement
§ 4.5.1 PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby enacts the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety, welfare, peace and
quiet of the citizens of the City through the reduction, control and prevention
of raucous noise, or any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of
ordinary sensitivity. (Ord. 368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.2 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Loud and raucous noise degrades the environment of the City to a
degree that:
      (1)   It may be harmful to the health, welfare and safety of its
inhabitants and visitors;
      (2)   It may interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property reasonably expected in an urban environment; and
      (3)   It may cause or aggravate health problems.
   (B)   Both the effective control and the elimination of loud or raucous
noise are essential to the health and welfare of the citizens and visitors of
the City as well as to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life, including
recreation, work and communication.
   (C)   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and raucous
noise that may, in a particular manner and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace and freedom of the
citizens of and visitors to the City.
   (D)   Certain short-term easing of noise restrictions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the City. (Ord.
368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.3 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to the control of all sound originating within the
jurisdictional limits of the City. (Ord. 368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate attention.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work:
      (1)   Performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating physical
trauma or property damage;
      (2)   Restoring property to a safe condition following a public calamity;
      (3)   By private or public utilities when restoring utility service; or
      (4)   Performed to protect persons or property from exposure to danger or
potential danger.
   HEALTH. An optimal state of physical, mental and emotional well-being and
not merely the absence of disease.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or public entity, including, but not limited to, federal, state or
city government.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley
or similar place which is normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structure on real property, owned by the
government and normally accessible to the public, including, but not limited
to, parks and other recreational areas. For the purposes of this chapter,
PUBLIC SPACE will also include any property, whether publicly or privately
owned, used by members of the general public as a method of ingress, egress or
for parking. (Ord. 368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.5 LOUD NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Loud noises are prohibited within the City limits of White Sulphur
Springs.
   (B)   Loud noises are generally defined as noises which annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person. Loud
noises include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Yelling, quarreling, fighting or challenging to fight, or making
loud or unusual noises;
      (2)   Amplified sound, such as that which may be emitted from a loud
speaker, public address system, stereo speaker or other electronic device, and
which is set at such a level as to disturb others or for which the individual
has no permit for the production of sound outside an enclosed space such as a
theater, this includes loud music and/or percussion waves emitting from a
residence or vehicle;
      (3)   A defect in vehicle or load which generates unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noises;
      (4)   Any honking, beeping or other noises which are not used to warn of
a legitimate danger; or
      (5)   Noises from snow blowers, lawn mowers, construction sites, steam
engines or other similar sources which are not managed by appropriate mufflers
or other sound dampening devices or occur between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. from October 1 through March 30 and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. from April 1 through September 30. (Ord. 368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.6 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions to the prohibition of loud, raucous or unusual noises shall
be:
      (1)   In the event of a true emergency when a siren, whistle or other
emergency sound is generated to provide a warning. This exception does not
apply to honking or back-up beepers or car alarms which sound continuously or
for a prolonged period of time;
      (2)   Public work. Noise created in the performance of any work in the
public right-of-way or on public space as defined herein which is reasonably
necessary for the public benefit, welfare, convenience or safety, including,
but not limited to, the maintenance of streets, parking lots, water and
wastewater lines, and solid waste activities;
      (3)   Any noise generated through an event which is the subject of a
lawful City permit;
      (4)   Any work-related noise which is the subject of special permission
from the Mayor following the submission of a written application outlining the
nature of the work, the need for the exception, and the period of time for
which the exception is needed. The Mayor may require special conditions to
mitigate any noise generated; and
      (5)   Any noise generated from a gathering, sporting event, concert,
dance or other similar event in a public park or other location which does not
require a permit, and which is conducted in a manner appropriate to the event.
Such events which generate complaints from the general public may be
interrupted or shut down if the noise generated cannot be moderated after a
warning issued by law enforcement.
   (B)   Nothing in this section will be construed to allow activity which is
prohibited under any other provision of this municipal code. (Ord. 368, passed
12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.7 EMERGENCY EXEMPTION.
   Any of the acts defined in §
4.5.5, which are performed for emergency work for the safety, welfare and
public health of the citizens of the City are exempted from the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 368, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 4.5.8 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The chief law enforcement officer will have the primary responsibility
for the enforcement of this chapter and shall respond to citizen complaints
promptly and address the nature of the disturbance and issue an appropriate
warning or citation. Nothing in this chapter will prevent the chief law
enforcement officer from obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning,
notice or education.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter will be punishable as follows:
      (1)   First offense will be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or
six months in the county jail or both;
      (2)   Second offense occurring within one year from the conviction of the
first offense will be punishable by a minimum fine of not less than $100 or
more than $500, a maximum of six months in the county jail or both;
      (3)   Third offense occurring within one year from the conviction of the
first offense will be punishable by a minimum fine of not less than $200 but in
no event more than $500, a maximum of six months in the county jail or both;
      (4)   Fourth or subsequent offense occurring within one year from the
conviction of the first offense will be punishable by a minimum fine of not
less than $350 but in no event more than $500, a maximum of six months in the
county jail or both;
      (5)   An individual with offenses not occurring within one year of a
prior offense, but with a history of prior offenses may be punished by a fine
of not less than $100 or more than $500, and up to a maximum of six months in
the county jail or both; and
      (6)   In the event the Court orders jail time under this chapter, the
Court may consider the costs of incarceration and may impose those costs as a
cost of prosecution and require they be paid by the offender.
   (C)   Each day a violation exists or continues constitutes a separate
offense. The chief law enforcement officer may elect to warn initially and, if
the violation persists, issue a citation for the initial event for which a
warning was originally issued in addition to the subsequent, continuing
violation. It is not a defense to the charge that a warning was issued first,
and a warning may be used as evidence in any prosecution.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter will be construed to prevent or interfere with
an individual’s constitutional right to free speech. If a person’s exercise of
a constitutional right to free speech would violate this chapter, that person
must be ordered and given the opportunity to move, disperse, or otherwise
remedy the violation prior to arrest or the issuance of a citation. (Ord. 368,
passed 12-3-2018)
TITLE 5: PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.    VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.    ANIMAL CONTROL
      
3.    DEER CONTROL
      
4.    OFFENSES
      
5.    MINORS
      
6.    OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
7.    FIRE PROTECTION
      
8.    FIREWORKS
      
9.    FIREARMS
      
10.    SOCIAL HOSTS
      
11.    PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
CHAPTER 1: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
5.1.1 Volunteer Fire Department
§ 5.1.1 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is a Volunteer Fire Department providing services to the City.
The Volunteer Fire Department shall be comprised of a Chief, Assistant Chief,
Secretary, Treasurer and Board of Trustees. The Constitution and bylaws of the
Department shall be adopted by the Department and the Board of Trustees and
shall be forwarded to the City Council for filing.
   (B)   The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, or an individual under the
Chief’s command, shall present a report, oral or written, to the City Council
at each monthly meeting. The report shall include information as to the number
of responses by the Department, the addition or reduction in membership, and
the financial and other needs of the Department.
   (C)   The Trustees, who are required by law to monitor and administer the
retirement fund for the department, shall provide the City Council with
periodic reports as to the financial health of any established retirement fund,
and make requests of the City, as necessary, to maintain the retirement fund in
a “soundly funded” condition.
CHAPTER 2: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
5.2.1 Definitions
5.2.2 Vaccination required; tag
5.2.3 License and registration
5.2.4 Nuisance animals prohibited
5.2.5 Dogs running at large on school grounds
5.2.6 At large
5.2.7 Impounded dogs; records
5.2.8 Notice and redemption
5.2.9 Disposition
5.2.10 Female dogs
5.2.11 Confinement or destruction of certain dogs
5.2.12 Releasing impounded dogs prohibited
5.2.13 Interference with Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer
5.2.14 Dangerous dogs; insurance
5.2.15 Animals in parks and cleaning up after animals
Animals and Fowl at Large
5.2.30 Livestock and fowl at large prohibited
5.2.31 Duty of Chief of Police; impoundment
5.2.32 Claiming ownership after sale
5.2.33 Fees
5.2.34 Prohibiting leaving of livestock in vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Deer Control, see Chapter 3 of this title
   Offenses, see Chapter 4 of this title
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 219-223, passed 2-3-1969
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.2.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  All peace officers, as that term is defined in
state law, as well as all duly appointed Animal Control Officers or dog wardens
appointed by the City and/or deputized by the Sheriff to carry out and enforce
this section.
   AT LARGE. An animal is off the premises of the owner, keeper or responsible
custodian of the animal and not on a leash or confined within a kennel, cage or
motor vehicle, or otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically
capable of restraining the animal.
   CAT. Both male and female animals of the feline species which are
domesticated.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human
beings, domestic animals or livestock without adequate provocation, or which
because of its nature, temperament, training or other characteristics, would
constitute an unreasonable danger to human life or property if not kept,
maintained or confined in a safe and secure manner. Any animal that, without
provocation, has aggressively bitten or caused any physical injury to any human
being, domestic animal or livestock shall be prima facie presumed VICIOUS OR
DANGEROUS.
   DOG. Both male and female animals of the canine species, whether altered or
not.
   IMPOUND. The holding of an animal in the pound pending claim by its owner.
   LEASH. A line, chain or lead of appropriate length to control or restrain an
animal and does not include an electronic leash or shock collar.
   NUISANCE.  
      (1)   Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or
health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights
of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property.
      (2)   The term NUISANCE shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Any animal that is repeatedly (more than two separate
occurrences) found running at large;
         (b)   Any dog in any section of a park or public recreation area which
is not controlled by a leash or similar physical restraint, except in such
parks or public areas designated exempt;
         (c)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner, with the exception of service animals
authorized under the Americans with Disabilities Act;
         (d)   Any animal that makes disturbing noises including, but not
limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, crowing or other
utterances causing unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others
in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
         (e)   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
         (f)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of- way;
         (g)   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
         (h)   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
         (i)   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored; and
         (j)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or other animal.
   PREMISES OF THE OWNER. The property of the owner, but does not include the
public right-of-way, the sidewalk or other publicly traveled portion of the
road, street or alley.
   POUND. The place provided by the City for the impounding of dogs or other
animals.
   VACCINATION. The injection of an approved vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
for the purpose of immunizing a dog against rabies or other communicable and
harmful diseases.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. An act which is not done intentionally for the purpose
of aggravating or inciting another, acting in an aggressive manner or attacking
without adequate reason; attacking another animal or human being which is not
specifically threatening harm to an animal or owner. Mere presence on the
premises of the owner does not amount to provocation. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-
2015)
§ 5.2.2 VACCINATION REQUIRED; TAG.
   All dogs or cats six months or older within the corporate limits of the City
shall be vaccinated against rabies and other diseases which may be transmitted
to human beings or which may pose a threat to public health. Dogs and cats
shall be vaccinated thereafter according to a schedule established by the
animal’s veterinarian. The vaccination required by this section shall be made
by any veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Montana. A tag showing proper vaccination shall be worn by every dog or cat
when not confined and proof of vaccination shall be retained by every dog or
cat owner. The animal control officer or law enforcement officer shall have the
right to impound any dog or cat at large within the City not wearing a collar
or harness on which is displayed the license tag and the vaccination tag. (Ord.
356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.3 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every person owning, keeping or harboring any dog over five months of
age or any cat over six months of age within the City limits shall cause such
dog or cat to be registered annually.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk, or by a duly appointed
license agent, upon proof that the dog or cat has been vaccinated and upon
payment of an animal license fee in an amount to be established by resolution
of the City Council.
   (C)   Any owner claiming the animal has been spayed or neutered must show to
the satisfaction of the licensing the City Clerk or license agent proof of such
operation being performed.
   (D)   Said owner shall keep on the neck or harness of a dog or cat so
registered, a suitable collar, with a metallic check or tag to be furnished by
the City, and the number and the year of registry shall be distinctly marked
thereon. In case a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the
City Clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license
fee for the current year, and the payment of a fee as set by resolution. Any
dog or cat found running at large without the license tag shall be deemed
unlicensed.
   (E)   Tags shall not be transferable from one animal to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any license fee because of the death of the animal or
the owner’s leaving town before expiration of the license period.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to nonresidents having
dogs or cats under leash within the City less than 15 days or to such animals
brought into the City for exhibitions provided the animal is properly
vaccinated or otherwise exempt.
   (G)   Licenses for “guide dogs” shall be furnished without charge upon proof
of vaccination, as herein provided.
   (H)   Licenses shall not be issued to any person under the age of 18 years
unless a parent or guardian signs the application as a co-owner. (Ord. 356,
passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.4 NUISANCE ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or maintain any animal
which meets the definition of “nuisance” as defined in §
5.2.1, and it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer and all law
enforcement officers to file complaints for all such violations occurring in
their presence. Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may file a complaint
with the Animal Control Officer or with law enforcement. Where the offense is
not committed in the presence of the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement,
the Animal Control Officer shall investigate and issue an appropriate criminal
or civil citation, or request prosecution for the violation through the City
Attorney. Violation of this provision is a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
as provided in §
1.4.1. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.5 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE ON SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   (A)   Every person who owns, keeps or harbors any dog and who allows such
dog to run at large on any school grounds within the City is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance animal and is therefore guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the City, and any officer or employee of
any school, or law enforcement officer within the City, is hereby authorized to
take, chase or drive any dog from any such school grounds using any reasonable
means therefor, and the Animal Control Officer shall impound any dog found
running at large on any such school grounds, as provided in §
5.2.6.
   (C)   Guidelines for fines for violating this section shall be as set forth
in §
5.2.6(H). (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.6 AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to keep such animal
under restraint or to permit such animal to run at large upon the streets and
public ways of the City.
   (B)   Any dog, while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in a park or other
public space, or upon any private property without the consent of the property
owner, shall be secured by a leash or chain of sufficient tensile strength and
appropriate length to restrain the particular dog. However, while actually
participating in instructional obedience training, dogs may be temporarily
restrained by a leash or greater length.
   (C)   No owner or custodian of any animal shall leave such animal unattended
while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in a park or other public space, or
fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal to prevent the same
from becoming a nuisance.
   (D)   Every female dog or cat, while in heat, shall be kept in a secure
enclosed shelter or area within the real property limits of the owner’s
premises in such a manner so as not to come in contact with another animal
except for planned breeding.
   (E)   Every dangerous or vicious animal shall be confined by its owner, or
authorized agent of its owner, within a building or secure enclosure, and,
whenever off the premises of its owner, shall be securely muzzled and
restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not
more than three feet in length or caged. Every person harboring a dangerous or
vicious animal is charged with an affirmative duty to confine the animal in
such a way that no other person has access to such animal.
   (F)   Every dog or cat, unlicensed or licensed, found running at large in
the streets, avenues, alleys or other public places within the City, or on
private property belonging to persons other than the owners or persons in
control of such dogs, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
taken and impounded in the City pound or elsewhere by the Animal Control
Officer, any Sheriff, or their deputy, or other persons designated by the Mayor
from time to time for such purposes. If a dog or cat running at large has
previously bitten a human being, domestic animal or livestock, whether or not
the bite took place on the owner’s private property, then upon impoundment that
dog or cat shall be destroyed in a humane manner under the supervision of the
Animal Control Officer or the Sheriff.
   (G)   Every owner or other person in control of any dog or cat who allows
such dog or cat to be at large, as defined in §
5.2.1, is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and is therefore guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1.
   (H)   Guidelines for fines for violating this section shall be up to $50 for
the first offense, up to $100 for a second offense and up to $500 for a third
or subsequent offense. Any owner who fails to pay all fines within the period
prescribed after imposition thereof by the City Judge and any fees for
impoundment of the animal pursuant to §
5.2.8 shall cause the animal to be deemed abandoned, disposition of which shall
be provided in §
5.2.9. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.7 IMPOUNDED DOGS; RECORDS.
   Immediately upon impounding any dog or other animal, the Animal Control
Officer or law enforcement officer shall record in a book to be provided by the
City and kept for that purpose, a description of such animal. Such record shall
state the sex, color, breed (if known), estimated age, distinguishing marks, if
any, and the date and hour of impounding and upon final disposition of such
animal, the record shall show such disposition. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.8 NOTICE AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared the duty of every owner of any dog or other
animal to know its whereabouts at all times. In the event that any dog or other
animal is impounded, the owner shall redeem the same within 72 hours, or it
shall be subject to disposal by the Animal Control Officer, as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   In the event that any animal is reclaimed, on the first offense the
owner shall pay a releasing fee to be set by resolution for food and shelter
and all reasonable transportation costs when the animal is sheltered outside
the City limits; the releasing fee shall double on the second offense and
triple on the third and all other offenses occurring within one year of the
first offense or within one year of any subsequent offense. If the owner is a
resident within the City limits, they shall be required to obtain a license for
the animal, if it does not already have one, at the time of the release.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to remit
immediately all sums of money collected under this section to the City
Treasurer. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.9 DISPOSITION.
   Every animal impounded shall be held for a period of 72 hours after such
impounding, and if not claimed by the owner, or by some person acting in the
owner’s behalf who pays the license and impounding fees, as provided in this
chapter, the animal shall be put to death under the supervision of the Animal
Control Officer in a medically approved and humane manner. Any dog or other
animal suffering from an infectious disease shall not be released, but must be
put to death unless the County Health Officer or a licensed veterinarian shall
otherwise request. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.10 FEMALE DOGS.
   (A)   Every person having under their control any female dog or cat in heat
(i.e., in the estrous period) shall confine such dog or cat in a house, garage
or other building, and in such manner as to eliminate the congregation of other
dogs or cats in the immediate vicinity of the female. Any such female dog or
cat not so confined is a public nuisance, and the owner or other person in
control of such dog or cat is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and is
therefore guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer or any law enforcement officer shall
immediately abate every such nuisance by impounding any such dog or cat as
provided in §§
5.2.7 and
5.2.8. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.11 CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog which has bitten or which is suspected of having bitten a
human being, domestic animal or livestock or which is believed to have rabies
or other diseases which may pose a threat to public health, or to have been
exposed to the same, shall be confined upon order of the Animal Control
Officer, any law enforcement officer, or the County Health Officer or their
agent.
   (B)   Any dog which has threatened or caused reasonable apprehension or
bodily injury or bitten a person or a domestic animal or livestock while the
owner or other responsible person was present and the animal was connected to
the owner or other person by a leash or otherwise on other than the owner’s
private property, unless the bite was in response to an immediate threat of
physical harm to the owner or their family, shall be destroyed in a humane
manner under the supervision of the Animal Control Officer or the Sheriff.
   (C)   The cost of confinement, as provided for in this section, shall be
charged to the owner of said dog. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.12 RELEASING IMPOUNDED DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person other than the Animal
Control Officer or Sheriff or designee to release or remove any impounded dog
or other impounded animal from the City pound, or to either break open or in
any way injure the pound, or either directly or indirectly aid or assist any
other person in doing so.
   (B)   Persons convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 5.2.13 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer in the discharge
of their official duties under §§
5.2.1 through
5.2.12.
   (B)   Persons convicted of violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
1.4.1.
§ 5.2.14 DANGEROUS DOGS; INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any dog which is known, at any time, to have been
aggressive toward or bitten a human being, domestic animal or livestock without
provocation, whether a citation was issued or not, shall be required to have
liability insurance in the amount of at least $500,000 to cover any damage or
injury which may be caused by such dog.
   (B)   Proof of insurance shall be required at the time of licensing and may
be requested at any time by the Animal Control Officer, City Clerk, member of
the City Council or any law enforcement officer. Failure to provide proof of
such liability insurance shall result in immediate impoundment of the animal.
   (C)   If the owner of the animal does not provide proof of insurance to the
Animal Control Officer or other person with authority to request such proof
within three business days of impoundment, the animal shall be euthanized under
the supervision of the Animal Control Officer in a medically approved and human
manner.
   (D)   If the animal has never been aggressive toward or bitten a human
being, domestic animal or livestock, the owner may be allowed to remove the
animal from the City limits, after which the animal shall be permanently
banished from ever being within the City limits.
   (E)   The owner of any dog impounded under this chapter shall be required to
pay all costs of impoundment which shall be as set by the Council by
resolution.
(Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.2.15 ANIMALS IN PARKS AND CLEANING UP AFTER ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, possessing or harboring any dog, cat or
other animal within the City limits, shall promptly remove and properly dispose
of all feces left by the dog, cat or animal on any public sidewalk or in any
public park or ball field and on any private property not owned or lawfully
occupied by such person.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by fine of up to $50 for
the first offense, up to $100 for the second offense and up to $500 for a third
or subsequent offense.
      (1)   Any animal owner, who fails to pay all fines within three days
after imposition thereof by the City Judge, may result in impoundment of the
animal, and the cost of impoundment assessed to the owner thereof.
      (2)   Any animal impounded under this section may be destroyed after
three days, if the fines and cost of the impoundment imposed hereunder remain
unpaid. (Ord. 356, passed 12-7-2015)
ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE
§ 5.2.30 LIVESTOCK AND FOWL AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit livestock or fowl to
run at large and said person shall at all times keep the same within or upon
their own premises, except when the same are necessarily passing through the
City and using the public thoroughfares, at which time the same shall be
attended by competent person to prevent their running at large or damaging
property. (1985 Code, § 8.04.010)
§ 5.2.31 DUTY OF CHIEF OF POLICE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to take and impound, in some
suitable place provided for that purpose, any animal that may be at large upon
public thoroughfares or other public places, or that may be upon or about any
private premises damaging or annoying the owner or occupant thereof; to give
notice to the owner thereof, if known; if unknown to publish notice of such
impounding for three weeks in the official newspaper of the City. In the event
the owner fails to pay the charges accrued thereon, hereinafter specified,
within five days after such notice or publication, the Chief of Police shall
make complaint before the City Judge setting forth the facts in relation
thereto, who shall thereupon fix a time not less than four or more than ten
days for the hearing of proof on said complaint and give notice thereof in the
manner provided for service of summons in civil actions. At the appointed time,
the City Judge shall hear proof of the facts alleged in the complaint and if
found satisfactory shall order a sale to be made of the same at a time not more
than ten or less than five days from date of said hearing, of which sale notice
shall be given by posting notice thereof in three public places in said City,
said sale shall be for cash to the highest bidder, the proceeds to be paid by
the Chief of Police to the Treasurer.( 1985 Code, § 8.04.020)
§ 5.2.32 CLAIMING OWNERSHIP AFTER SALE.
   If any such sale shall claim to be the owner thereof, the City Judge, upon
satisfactory proof of their ownership, shall order the City Treasurer to pay
the proceeds of said sale to such owner after first deducting the costs,
charges and expenses incurred in connection therewith. (1985 Code, § 8.04.030)
§ 5.2.33 FEES.
   The fees to be charged for services in connection with the impounding and
sale of animals shall be in accordance with the fees on file in the office of
the City Clerk, as established from time to time. (1985 Code, § 8.04.040)
§ 5.2.34 PROHIBITING LEAVING OF LIVESTOCK IN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to retain livestock overnight in any
vehicle. If such stock is held for a longer period than five hours, it shall be
removed from the vehicle and placed in appropriate pens or enclosures. (1985
Code, § 8.04.050)
CHAPTER 3: DEER CONTROL
Section
5.3.1 Purpose and scope
5.3.2 Goals
5.3.3 Actions to meet goals
5.3.4 Monitoring responsibility
5.3.5 Program longevity
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from New. Res. 538, passed 1-3-2012
§ 5.3.1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Reduce the negative impacts to people caused by mule deer within the
City of White Sulphur Springs, Montana; and
   (B)   Provide the City of White Sulphur Springs and the Meagher County
Sheriff’s Department with the management tools necessary to effectively respond
to individual deer-human conflicts and to limit overall mule deer density
within the City limits, as necessary.(1985 Code, § 8.06.010)
§ 5.3.2 GOALS.
   (A)   Euthanize individual deer within City limits which threaten human
safety or property; and
   (B)   Reduce the potential for human-deer interactions and conflicts by
lowering the density of deer resident within the City of White Sulphur Springs.
(1985 Code, § 8.06.020)
§ 5.3.3 ACTIONS TO MEET GOALS.
   (A)   Mule deer within the White Sulphur Springs City limits which have
become habituated to human activity and are behaving aggressively will be
dispatched by the Meagher County Sheriff’s Department or their agents as soon
as possible after verifying the deer’s behavior or activities pose a threat to
human safety or property. Resident deer threatening the safety of pets confined
to yards may also be dispatched. The Meagher County Sheriff, designated
deputies, or their assigned agents are the only persons legally allowed to
discharge firearms within the City limits. Public complaints need to be first
directed to the Meagher County Dispatch Center (1-406-547-3397).
   (B)   The City and County Sheriff may choose to trap and euthanize a number
of deer resident within the City limits each year between August 15 and
February 15 in order to reduce overall deer density. The number of deer removed
each year will be limited by the terms of a Permit To Destroy Game Animals
Causing Damage issued to the County Sheriff by the Fish and Wildlife
Commission.
   (C)   All deer removed under this Action Plan must be documented and a
record of those removals maintained by the City of White Sulphur Springs. An
annual report will be provided to Fish, Wildlife and Parks which includes the
date and nature of any public complaints, the responding Meagher County
Sheriff/agent(s), the number of deer dispatched, the method of removal, and the
disposition of the deer removed. Carcasses will be disposed of in accordance
with FWP rules and statutes; and venison fit for human consumption will be
donated to the Meagher County Nutritional Coalition for charitable
distribution. Deer which have been killed due to vehicle-deer collisions within
City limits will be removed by the Meagher County Sheriff’s Department, White
Sulphur Springs Animal Control, or city maintenance staff, and such will not be
included in the permit numbers allowed to be taken (salvage of game animals:
M.C.A. § 87-3-145).
   (D)   All FWP regulations and Montana State Statutes and ARM rules apply,
including terms of a Permit To Destroy Game Animals Causing Damage which may be
issued to the Meagher County Sheriff’s Department by the Fish and Wildlife
Commission.
   (E)   Citizens of White Sulphur Springs must refrain from artificially
feeding or providing supplemental feed attractants to resident and wild deer
pursuant to M.C.A. § 87-6-216. Artificial feeding is a misdemeanor and
encourages deer to habituate to the urban environment and create human/deer
conflict. Wild deer that enter the City are less likely to become resident and/
or remain in the City when artificial feed is contained.(1985 Code, § 8.06.040)
§ 5.3.4 MONITORING RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The City of White Sulphur Springs and Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks
will jointly monitor the implementation and effectiveness of this Action Plan.
   (B)   The Meagher County Sheriff’s Department will accept and forward
complaint calls and will provide the assistance of an officer or an assigned
agent to respond to complaints about aggressive deer. The Meagher County
Sheriff or the Montana Highway Patrol will continue to respond to vehicle-deer
collisions. The number and type of complaints received, as well as the action
taken will be recorded and provided to Fish, Wildlife and Parks Regional office
in Great Falls in an annual report.
   (C)   Fish, Wildlife and Parks will assist the City of White Sulphur Springs
in determining the deer population within the City limits and advising the City
in structuring effective management strategies.
§ 5.3.5 PROGRAM LONGEVITY.
   (A)   The City of White Sulphur Springs may modify this Action Plan as
needed. However, any changes to stipulations regarding the harassment or lethal
removal of Game Animals are subject to oversight and permitting by the Fish and
Wildlife Commission.
   (B)   This Action Plan is effective upon authorization by Fish, Wildlife and
Parks, the Fish and Wildlife Commission, and the City of White Sulphur Springs.
It will remain in effect until modified or terminated by any of those named
parties.
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES
Section
5.4.1 Aid in escape
5.4.2 Aid to an offense
5.4.3 Alcoholic beverages; procuring or selling to minors
5.4.4 Assault
5.4.5 Cruelty to animals
5.4.6 Disorderly conduct
5.4.7 Distribution of obscene literature
5.4.8 Encouraging delinquency
5.4.9 Escapes
5.4.10 Expectorating on sidewalks or in public buildings
5.4.11 False pretenses
5.4.12 False representation
5.4.13 Fraudulently avoiding payment of admission fees
5.4.14 Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
5.4.15 Giving assistance to law enforcement officers
5.4.16 House of prostitution
5.4.17 Indecent exposure
5.4.18 Keeping of junk restricted
5.4.19 Lug wheels prohibited
5.4.20 Malicious injury to property
5.4.21 Mufflers; unnecessary noise
5.4.22 Obscene conduct
5.4.23 Prostitution
5.4.24 Resisting an officer
5.4.25 Riot
5.4.26 Trespassing
5.4.27 Unlawful assembly
5.4.28 Water flowing upon streets
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 170-209, passed 2-3-1969
§ 5.4.1 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape
from lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the custody of
any peace officer.   (1985 Code, § 9.02.020)
§ 5.4.2 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein, or in any manner to encourage the commission of such
offense hereby defined. (1985 Code, § 9.02.030)
§ 5.4.3 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PROCURING OR SELLING TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, sell, dispose of or give
away any alcoholic beverages to any person under 21 years of age, or for any
person under 21 years of age to purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise
procure, consume or have in their possession any alcoholic beverages. (1985
Code, § 9.02.040)
§ 5.4.4 ASSAULT.
   A person commits the offense of assault if the person:
   (A)   Purposely or knowingly causes bodily injury to another;
   (B)   Negligently causes bodily injury to another with a weapon;
   (C)   Purposely or knowingly makes physical contact of an insulting or
provoking nature with any individual; or
   (D)   Purposely or knowingly causes reasonable apprehension of bodily injury
in another. (1985 Code, § 9.02.050)
§ 5.4.5 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or beat cruelly, starve or
otherwise ill-treat any animal in their care or charge, whether belonging to
them or any other person.
(1985 Code, § 9.02.070) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.4.6 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any behavior which
knowingly disturbs the peace by:
   (A)   Quarreling, challenging to fight, or fighting;
   (B)   Making loud or unusual noises;
   (C)   Using threatening, profane, or abusive language;
   (D)   Rendering vehicular or pedestrian traffic impassable;
   (E)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act that
serves no legitimate purpose; or
   (F)   Participating in any behavior under circumstances intended to arouse
or gratify a person’s own sexual response or desire or the sexual response or
desire of any other person. (1985 Code, § 9.02.090)
§ 5.4.7 DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, give or deliver to
another any obscene or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print, paper,
writing, mold, cast or figure, or to have the same in their possession. (1985
Code, § 9.02.100)
§ 5.4.8 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage,
aid or cause a minor to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities;
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver’s
license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such minor to
operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver’s license is
suspended. (1985 Code, § 9.02.120)
§ 5.4.9 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody. (1985 Code, § 9.02.130)
§ 5.4.10 EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALKS OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk
or upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies.
(1985 Code, § 9.02.140)
§ 5.4.11 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom they received the
food, goods, wares and merchandise. (1985 Code, § 9.02.150)
§ 5.4.12 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent themselves to be an
officer of the City, or to attempt to impersonate any such officer, or to
perform any official act therein on behalf of an officer without authority.
(1985 Code, § 9.02.160) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.4.13 FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of law
enforcement officers engaged in the performance of law enforcement duties to
any place of public entertainment or amusement. (1985 Code, § 9.02.170)
§ 5.4.14 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish, or
take into jail, or deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein
confined, or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, alcoholic
beverages, drugs or other articles without the consent of the officer in
charge. (1985 Code, § 9.02.180)
§ 5.4.15 GIVING ASSISTANCE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse or
neglect to render assistance to any law enforcement officer when called upon
for such assistance to aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful
assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed an offense. (1985
Code, § 9.02.200)
§ 5.4.16 HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or assist in the keeping of a
house of prostitution, or knowingly to reside therein, or knowingly to rent,
lease or permit any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased or
controlled by them for this purpose. (1985 Code, § 9.02.210)
§ 5.4.17 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   A person commits the offense of indecent exposure if the person knowingly or
purposely exposes the person’s genitals or intimate parts by any means,
including electronic communication as defined in § 45-5-625(5)(a) M.C.A., under
circumstances in which the person knows the conduct is likely to cause affront
or alarm in order to:
   (A)   Abuse, humiliate, harass, or degrade another; or
   (B)   Arouse or gratify the person’s own sexual response or desire or the
sexual response or desire of any person. (1985 Code, § 9.02.220)
§ 5.4.18 KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk, adjacent to or in close proximity to
any school house, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings or a fence
approved by the City Council for the storage of the same. (1985 Code, §
9.02.230)
§ 5.4.19 LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets. (1985 Code, § 9.02.240)
§ 5.4.20 MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or
molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or
under the control of any person. (1985 Code, § 9.02.250)
§ 5.4.21 MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall
not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise;
and it shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a
cut-out, by-pass or similar muffler elimination appliance. (1985 Code, §
9.02.260)
§ 5.4.22 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any place open
to the public view, or to be guilty of any indecent or obscene conduct, or to
indecently exhibit any animal.
(1985 Code, § 9.02.280) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.4.23 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purse or advertise in any manner
their vocation as a prostitute, or for any person to advertise the profession
of a prostitute, or to solicit for a prostitute. (1985 Code, § 9.02.310)
§ 5.4.24 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere willfully with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer of the City in the
exercise of their official duties. (1985 Code, § 9.02.320)
§ 5.4.25 RIOT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse immediately to
disperse upon an order to do so by a law enforcement officer, when two or more
persons are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the
purpose of committing any unlawful act. (1985 Code, § 9.02.330)
§ 5.4.26 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence, or to let down
any bars, or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the
consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof. (1985 Code, §
9.02.350)
§ 5.4.27 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace, or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer so to do. (1985 Code, §
9.02.360)
§ 5.4.28 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare. (1985 Code, § 9.02.380)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
5.5.1 Definition
5.5.2 Curfew
5.5.3 Employment prohibition
5.5.4 Other prohibitions
5.5.5 Duty of the Chief of Police
5.5.6 Leaving minors unattended prohibited
5.5.7 Duty of law enforcement officers
5.5.8 Liability
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 229-235, passed 2-3-1969, Ords. 352,
passed 8-1-1991, Ord. 353, passed 8-1-1991, Ord. 354, passed 8-1-1991, and
amended by Res. 521, passed 5-4-2009
§ 5.5.1 DEFINITION.
   All male and female persons under 18 years of age are MINORS. (1985 Code, §
9.10.010)
§ 5.5.2 CURFEW.
   (A)   Loitering of minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years (a minor) to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or
drive, operate or occupy a vehicle of any type or kind in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public grounds or other
public places and public buildings, cafés, theaters and places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the next day on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday of each and every week; and between the hours of 12:00 a.m. until
5:00 a.m. of the next day on Friday and Saturday of each week and during school
vacation periods the hours will remain the same; provided, however, that the
provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by their parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of such minor, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
their parent, guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the
minor. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a minor while engaged
in any gainful occupation or employment, or while going to and from such
employment. Any minor under 18 years of age who is living with their parents,
or one of them, or a guardian, or with any foster parent, who is absent from
their home during the prohibited hours shall carry with them upon their person
the written permission of their parent, guardian or foster parent to be so
absent from their home for some stated legitimate reason, except when the
absence is due to gainful employment as above mentioned. Each violation of the
provisions of all this section shall constitute a separate offense and the
times shall be Mountain Standard or Mountain Daylight Savings time, whichever
is in effect at the time.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents or guardians. It shall be unlawful for any
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of any
person under the age of 18 years (minor) to allow or permit such minor to
violate the provisions of division (A) above. Each violation of the provisions
of this section shall constitute a separate offense. In any prosecution under
this section, it shall not constitute a defense thereto that the parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of such minor did
not have knowledge that such minor was violating the provisions of division (A)
above.
   (C)   Penalties. 
      (1)   Any minor under 18 years of age violating the provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance
with the laws of the state regarding crimes and offenses committed by
juveniles.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor violating division (A) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the following penalty. For a first offense,
shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $200. For a second offense,
shall be fined not less than $75 and not more than $500. For any subsequent
offense thereafter, the penalty shall be not less than $100 and not more than
$500 or six months in jail or any combination of fine and imprisonment. These
penalties are not to be deferred sentences. (1985 Code, § 9.10.020)
§ 5.5.3 EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be employed in any billiard hall, pool
hall or bowling alley where alcoholic beverages are sold and dispensed to the
public. (1985 Code, § 9.10.030)
§ 5.5.4 OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any minor to
loiter in or around or to frequent any place of business where alcoholic
beverages are sold for on-premises consumption during the hours in which such
place of business does not sell cooked or prepared food, without the minor’s
parent or legal guardian being present.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to loiter in or around or to frequent
any place of business where alcoholic beverages are sold for on-premises
consumption during the hours in which such place of business does not sell
cooked or prepared food without the minor’s parent or legal guardian being
present. (1985 Code, § 9.10.040)
§ 5.5.5 DUTY OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police to supervise the
enforcement of this chapter and it shall be the policy to notify the parents or
those having charge of the minor(s) of violations of this chapter, with the
request the violation(s) be rectified immediately. Upon the failure of the
minor, the parents, guardians or those in whose custody and care of the minor
shall be, to rectify matters after notice, the Chief of Police will then report
violations to the Probation Officer of the District court for proper attention
by the juvenile authorities. (1985 Code, § 9.10.050)
§ 5.5.6 LEAVING MINORS UNATTENDED PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, parent or guardian to leave any minor
under 12 years of age unattended in any vehicle which is parked upon any public
thoroughfare or public parking area within the City for more than 15 minutes or
after the hours of darkness. (1985 Code, § 9.10.060)
§ 5.5.7 DUTY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   At any time when responding law enforcement should find or respond to a
report of a minor left unattended in a vehicle, or upon the arrival cannot
locate a parent or guardian, or has reason to believe the minor is in distress,
law enforcement is authorized to use all reasonable means to extricate the
minor from the vehicle immediately and transport the minor to the nearest
medical facility for examination and treatment. Upon such removal, the law
enforcement officer shall make all reasonable effort to inform the person,
parent or guardian who has left the minor unattended that the minor has been
placed in the medical facility. (1985 Code, § 9.10.070)
§ 5.5.8 LIABILITY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
5.5.6 shall be subject to the penalty provided in this code, plus payment of
all costs of removal of the minor to the medical facility and all costs
assessed by said facility. The law enforcement agency responding to the
unattended minor and the City may not be held liable for any damage to the
vehicle as a result of any actions necessary to remove the minor from the
vehicle. (1985 Code, § 9.10.080)
CHAPTER 6: OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
5.6.1 Definitions
5.6.2 Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages prohibited
5.6.3 Consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
5.6.4 Exceptions to prohibition of open containers of alcoholic beverages and
consumption of alcoholic beverages in public
5.6.5 Revocation of waiver
5.6.6 Violations; penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 324, passed 6-1-1981
§ 5.6.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A compound produced and sold for human consumption as a
drink which contains more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume
includes any beer, wine or liquor.
   OPEN CONTAINER. Any glass, cup, open bottle, or bottle having a broken seal,
or can, or can having a broken seal, or other vessel capable of storing an
alcoholic beverage.
(1985 Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 5.6.2 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to be in the
possession of any open container containing an alcoholic beverage while on the
public streets, highways, alleys or sidewalks in the City, or in or on a
vehicle located on the public streets, highways, alleys or public parking lots
in the City.
(1985 Code, § 9.04.020) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 5.6.3 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage from an
open container while on the public streets, highways, alleys or public parking
lots in the City, or in or on a vehicle located on the public streets, highways
alleys or public parking lots in the City.
(1985 Code, § 9.04.030) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 5.6.4 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   The Mayor may grant a waiver to the provisions of §§
5.6.2 and
5.6.3 for the purpose of holding public assemblies in locations within the City
which are open to the public. Such application does not require consideration
by the full City Council, but may be acted upon by the Mayor without appearing
on the City Council agenda, at the discretion of the Mayor.
      (1)   All applications for a waiver shall be submitted in a timely manner
prior to the event. Timely, in this instance, is a minimum of 14 days prior to
the event and preferably 30 days. The form for such application shall be
provided by the City and shall be signed by the applicant. The application may
not be filed more than 180 days before the event. The minimum period may be
waived after due consideration of the factors specified under division (F)
below of this section.
      (2)   Applications submitted shall have proof of insurance in an amount
acceptable to the City; and which includes the City as an additional insured.
      (3)   The application shall designate either the applicant, or one or
more members of the group submitting the application, as the contact person for
the event. The contact person shall be present at all times during the event,
and shall not consume any alcoholic beverages during the event, and shall be in
charge of and responsible for all beverage servers and patrons.
   (B)   If the application is for the use of any city equipment or if any city
services shall be required, the applicant shall pay, prior to the issuance of a
waiver, the charges for those services in accordance with any schedule of
service costs approved by the city commission by resolution.
   (C)   If the event is to be held on a regular or recurring basis at the same
location, an application for a waiver for the calendar year or any portion
thereof may be filed at least 60 days and not more than 180 days before the
date and time of the first event proposed. The Mayor or City Council, as
appropriate, may waive the minimum period after due considerations of the
factors under division (F) below of this section.
   (D)   An application not acted upon within ten calendar days of submission,
or by the day of the event, shall be deemed denied.
   (E)   The Mayor shall uniformly consider each application upon its merits
and shall not discriminate in granting or denying waivers under this chapter
based upon political, religious, ethnic, color, race, creed, national origin,
age, marital status, gender or actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender
identity or disability related grounds.
   (F)   Any application submitted in a less than timely manner as designated
in this section may be denied as untimely without further review, unless a
waiver of the minimum filing period is granted after due consideration of the
date, time, place and nature of the event, and a determination that the impact
on City services and public safety will not be adversely impacted by granting
such a waiver. An approved application shall be given to the applicant by
personal delivery or by mail. If no action has been taken within ten calendar
days of submission or by the date of the event, the application has been deemed
denied.
   (G)   Upon granting the waiver, a copy of the waiver shall be routed as may
be appropriate in the discretion of the Mayor.
   (H)   In the event the Mayor denies the waiver request, the Mayor may
authorize the activity at a different time, date or location and issue an
alternate waiver to the applicant.
   (I)   In the event the waiver is denied by the Mayor, the applicant may
appeal the decision to the City Council by submitting the completed
application, as it existed at the time of the decision by the Mayor, to the
Clerk/Treasurer together with a letter explaining why the applicant believes
the decision should be overturned. The appeal materials must be received within
seven calendar days of the decision by the Mayor. Appeals received after that
time will be returned as untimely. The Clerk/Treasurer shall, upon receipt of a
timely appeal, schedule the public hearing for the next regular meeting of the
City Council, providing for appropriate notice according to the applicable
rules. To reverse the decision of the Mayor, the concurring vote of a majority
of the commission shall be needed to approve the application or approve the
application with additional conditions. The decision of the City Council shall
be final.(1985 Code, § 9.04.040) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 5.6.5 REVOCATION OF WAIVER.
   The Mayor or chief law enforcement official shall have the authority to
revoke a waiver instantly upon a violation of the conditions or standards for
issuance as set forth in this chapter or when a public emergency arises. The
revocation of a waiver due to an emergency shall not automatically operate to
revoke all waivers under a recurring event waiver. The revocation of a waiver
upon violation of the conditions or standards of the waiver shall automatically
operate to revoke the entire waiver for a recurring event. A new application
may be submitted in the event of a revocation of a recurring event waiver.
(1985 Code, § 9.04.050) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
§ 5.6.6 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Anyone found guilty of the offense of having an open container under
§§
5.6.2 or
5.6.3 shall be fined an amount not less than $75 and not to exceed $500 or be
imprisoned in the county jail for a term not to exceed six months, or both. The
first $75 of a fine under this section may not be suspended.
   (C)   Upon conviction, the court may, in its discretion, order the payment
of the costs of prosecution or imprisonment, or both, as part of the sentence.
(1985 Code, § 9.04.060) (Ord. 372, passed 8-20-2019)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
5.7.1 Emptying live ashes prohibited
5.7.2 Bonfires
5.7.3 Dangerous conditions to be remedied
5.7.4 Permits
5.7.5 Outside City limits
5.7.6 Contract
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 244-249 passed 2-3-1969
§ 5.7.1 EMPTYING LIVE ASHES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to empty live ashes within the City
limits in any street or alley, or any vacant lot or piece of ground, or within
close proximity to any buildings unless the same be put in a metal container,
which shall be placed at least a distance of 20 feet from any and all buildings
as will avoid all danger of fire therefrom. (1985 Code, § 9.08.010)
§ 5.7.2 BONFIRES.
   It shall be the duty of any person lighting any bonfire within the City
limits to remain constantly thereat until the same is either extinguished or
burned out. (1985 Code, § 9.08.020)
§ 5.7.3 DANGEROUS CONDITIONS TO BE REMEDIED.
   It shall be the duty of every person within the City, upon being notified by
the Volunteer Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department that any chimney, flue,
fireplace, stovepipe, boiler or other structure is dangerous, unsafe or
defective, at once to repair or remove the same, in order to remedy such unsafe
or dangerous condition, and it shall be the duty of every person to obey the
orders and directions of said Volunteer Fire Chief in relation thereto. (1985
Code, § 9.08.030)
§ 5.7.4 PERMITS.
   Permits for the burning of dry grass, weeds and similar material are
required by the City. Said permits shall be obtained from the Volunteer Chief
of the Volunteer Fire Department. This permit may be revoked by the Volunteer
Fire Chief or the Mayor when conditions under which the permit was granted
change, when a hazardous condition is determined to exist, or when, in the best
judgment of the Volunteer Fire Chief, such permit must be withdrawn in the
interests of public safety, including the safety of property. (1985 Code, §
9.08.040)
§ 5.7.5 OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Owners and lessees of property outside the City limits but adjacent thereto,
in event of casualty by fire to their properties, in which the firefighting
facilities of the City are brought into use at the request of the owners and
lessees, their agents or servants, or in which the use of such facilities is
rendered necessary for the protection of adjacent property within the City
limits, shall be liable to the City for a minimum fee as set by the Council by
resolution for each response by the Volunteer Fire Department to a call for
assistance, or each intervention rendered necessary by circumstances
endangering property within the City, and to such additional sums as may be
necessary to reimburse the City for its expense incidental to such service.
(1985 Code, § 9.08.050)
§ 5.7.6 CONTRACT.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may enter into written contract,
in the name of the City, within individuals or groups for extension of the
city’s firefighting services to properties outside the City limits, so as to
render such services available for the protection of such properties to the
same extent as to persons and properties within the City. Every such contract
shall clearly identify the properties to which it is applicable, the persons
contracting for fire protection and their interests therein, and before
execution by the City shall be approved by the City Attorney.
(1985 Code, § 9.08.060)
CHAPTER 8: FIREWORKS
Section
5.8.1 Definition
5.8.2 Sale and discharge of fireworks
5.8.3 When this chapter does not apply
5.8.4 Public display permitted when; public display permit
5.8.5 General liability insurance required
5.8.6 Enforcement
5.8.7 Violation; penalty
§ 5.8.1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Means and includes any combustible or explosive composition or
any substance, combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation and includes, but is not limited to, sky rockets, roman candles,
dago bombs, blank cartridges, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in which
explosives other than toy paper caps are used, the type of balloons which
require fire underneath to propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, sparklers or
other fireworks of like construction, any fireworks containing any explosive or
flammable compound, or any tablet or other device containing any explosive
substance. This definition includes items which contain even small amounts of
silver fulminate, potassium nitrate, ammonium perchlorate or other chemical or
pyrotechnical composition intended to produce a pyrotechnic event or effect,
even if not classified as a “hazardous material” under federal regulation.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.2 SALE AND DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)    No individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association shall
possess for sale, sell or offer for sale, at retail or discharge within the
City limits, any fireworks, as defined herein, except as specifically provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   No parent, guardian or custodian of any child under the age of
majority shall knowingly permit or consent to the possession or discharge of
fireworks by any child under the age of majority without proper supervision.
Possession or discharge by any child under the age of majority within the City
limits shall be prima facie evidence of the knowing permission or consent of
such parent, guardian or custodian.
   (C)   The sale and/or discharge of fireworks within the City limits are
prohibited by this chapter subject only to the exceptions stated herein, and
are therefore deemed a public nuisance. Specifically:
      (1)   No fireworks may be discharged within the boundaries of or within
150 feet of any public park owned or maintained by the City without a public
display permit except as otherwise provided in this chapter;
      (2)   No fireworks may be discharged upon any public street, alley, road
or right-of-way, except as otherwise provided in this chapter;
      (3)   No fireworks may be discharged within 150 feet of any hospital,
nursing or assisted living facility; and
      (4)   No fireworks may be discharged under or upon a motor vehicle,
whether moving or not, or within 150 feet of any gas station, gas, oil or
propane storage facility or other area which is highly flammable by nature.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to the limitations contained in this chapter, fireworks,
as listed in division (E) below, may be discharged within the City limits only
on private property of the owner, or with the owner’s permission, or on paved
City streets other than Main Street or 3rd Avenue South when such discharge is
in a safe and sane manner, and limited to:
         (a)   Between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. July 1 through July 3;
         (b)   Between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight July 4; and
         (c)   The New Year’s Day holiday only from 11:00 p.m. December 31
until 1:00 a.m. January 1.
      (2)   As used in this division (D), the phrase SAFE AND SANE MANNER
refers to actions which do not endanger life, limb or property of those in the
area of the discharge. Nothing in allowing the discharge of fireworks within
the City limits relieves the individual, firm, partnership, corporation or
association of its responsibility for any injury or damage caused to
individuals or property by the discharge of the fireworks. Any discharge, with
or without a permit, is at the individual, firm, partnership, corporation or
association’s own risk, and is not sanctioned by this chapter.
   (E)   Permitted fireworks are the following type of Class C “common
fireworks” among those listed in federal law:
      (1)   A cardboard or heavy paper cylindrical tube or cone that:
         (a)   Produces a shower of color and sparks that reach a maximum of 15
feet;
         (b)   May whistle or pop; and
         (c)   Is not designed to explode or leave the ground.
      (2)   A pyrotechnic wheel device:
         (a)   May be attached to a post or tree; and
         (b)   Contains up to six “driver” units or tubes;
      (3)   Any device that:
         (a)   Spins, jumps or emits popping sounds when placed on the ground;
         (b)   Does not exceed a height of 15 feet when discharged; and
         (c)   Does not travel laterally more than ten feet on a smooth surface
when discharged.
      (4)   Sparklers under 12 inches in length which do not have a magnesium
make-up, glow worms, snakes, party poppers, trick noisemakers; and
      (5)   Certain mortar type aerial devices and multi-shot cakes that are
found acceptable by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   When, in the opinion of the Volunteer Fire Chief, drought or other
conditions exist which, when coupled with the discharge of fireworks, would
pose a hazard to persons or property, the Volunteer Fire Chief shall issue a
ban on the discharge of all fireworks until such time as the condition causing
the ban ceases to exist.
   (G)   Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association
discharging fireworks under this chapter shall, upon such discharge, be
responsible for clean-up of the discharge site, including disposal of all
discharged fireworks, all non-discharged or “dud” fireworks, and the associated
debris from the discharged fireworks in a safe manner.
   (H)   The safe and sane discharge of fireworks in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed a violation of
Title 4, Chapter 5. (Ord. 365, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.3 WHEN THIS CHAPTER DOES NOT APPLY.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Fireworks held or sold to a person possessing a valid permit under
M.C.A. § 50-37-107, and a valid permit issued by the Volunteer Fire Chief and/
or the Mayor for the purpose of conducting a supervised public display of such
fireworks;
   (B)   Fireworks used by railroads or other transportation agencies for
signal purposes or illumination;
   (C)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, for signal
or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, for use by peace officers, or
for use by official military organizations or organizations composed of
veterans of the United States armed forces;
   (D)   Toy paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
composition per cap; and
   (E)   Fireworks displays provided by the Volunteer Fire Department, or under
the supervision of the VFD, provided the Fire Chief and the Mayor have obtained
insurance coverage or an insurance rider relative to the display, and have
developed a plan for the display, and the plans have been presented, either as
a written plan or an oral presentation, by the Fire Chief to the City Council
at the first Monday meeting of the Council prior to July 1st. (Ord. 365, passed
12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.4 PUBLIC DISPLAY PERMITTED WHEN; PUBLIC DISPLAY PERMIT.
   (A)   Review and supervision:
      (1)   The Volunteer Fire Chief and/or chief law enforcement officer shall
review and inspect, in conjunction with the Mayor, all supervised public
displays of fireworks, including “display fireworks”, by fair associations,
amusement parks or other organizations or groups of individuals upon completion
of the necessary application and submission of appropriate fees as may be
established by resolution of the City Council. Payment of the base fee and a
minimum of one hour of inspection shall be made at the time the application is
submitted. Any additional fees incurred shall be paid before the permit is
issued.
      (2)   A visual site inspection shall occur before any permit is issued.
      (3)   Submission of the application does not guarantee issuance of a
permit and all fees are non-refundable.
      (4)   All applications under this section shall be submitted to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and then forwarded to the Volunteer Fire Chief, who shall
consult with the Mayor before approval of any permit.
      (5)   The Mayor may act on any application in the absence of the
Volunteer Fire Chief, and may override the issuance of a Public Display Permit
or may revoke a permit in the same manner as the Volunteer Fire Chief.
   (B)   Each display shall:
      (1)   Be handled by a licensed, bonded pyrotechnic operator to be
approved by the Volunteer Fire Chief;
      (2)   Be located, discharged or fired such that the display, in the
opinion of the Volunteer Fire Chief, shall not be hazardous to persons or
property; and
      (3)   Clearly post a “NO SMOKING” warning within 50 feet of the staging
and discharge area established for the display, and no one may smoke within the
defined area.
   (C)   The application for a permit, to be known as a “Public Display
Permit”, shall be made in writing at least 30 days prior to the date of the
display. An application submitted less than 30 days prior to the event, or
which is required to be re-submitted shall pay an additional fee. The
application shall contain, at a minimum:
      (1)   A detailed map of the proposed display venue, including the
temporary storage site, the parking and spectator viewing areas, the fireworks
discharge point, location of structures and roads, streets and alleys within a
1,000-yard radius, overhead obstructions or other hazards;
      (2)   The name of the licensed and bonded pyrotechnic operator along with
the operator’s qualifications, training and experience, and the names of any
assistants for the event;
      (3)   The location of all fire hydrants, water spigots or other access
points for water, and all other fire retardants or extinguishers available at
or near the venue;
      (4)   Proof of general liability insurance in an amount acceptable to the
City, and which includes the City as an additional insured;
      (5)   The name of the association, entity, organization or group and its
organizing or supervising board or responsible parties for the event;
      (6)   A complete list of the fireworks intended for use in the display
together with their projectile range, if any;
      (7)   The location, date and time of the display and written consent from
the landowner;
      (8)   A detailed safety plan for the event; and
      (9)   Any application containing a map, safety plan, list of intended
fireworks or other requirement which is deemed illegible or incomplete will be
returned to the applicant for correction before it will be considered.
   (D)   Upon inspection and issuance of the Public Display Permit, and only
then, sales, possession and use of fireworks for such display as detailed in
the permit shall be lawful for that purpose only.
   (E)   Following the public display, the organizers and the pyrotechnic
operator shall be responsible for clean-up of the display site, including
disposal of all discharged fireworks and all non-discharged or “dud” fireworks
in a safe manner.
   (F)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be subject to transfer.
   (G)   This permit may be revoked by the Volunteer Fire Chief when any of the
conditions under which the permit was granted change, when a hazardous
condition is determined to exist, or when, in the best judgment of the
Volunteer Fire Chief, such permit must be withdrawn in the interests of public
safety, and may include violation of any rule, regulation or requirement of
this chapter. (Ord. 365, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.5 GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   An individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association planning a
public display of fireworks shall:
   (A)   Be required to provide surety for performance (including, but not
limited to: obtaining liability insurance, bonding, indemnification or monetary
deposits) as provided within the municipal code. This requirement shall include
security or clean-up deposits as stated in the applicable section.
   (B)   (1)   To avoid interference with protected rights of speech and
assembly, any requirement imposed for surety for performance shall be based
upon needs directly associated with the event and not on the basis of possible
disruption of the event by protestors or other persons who might be opposed to
the speech or assembly; and
      (2)   Such restriction, however, shall not apply where the Mayor
determines an event is being scheduled which will unduly and unnecessarily
create a potential for counter-protest or disruption or interference with
public health, safety, welfare or order.
   (C)   Any individual, or corporation required to provide surety in some
manner under the municipal code shall obtain commercial general liability
insurance covering the event, including, but not limited to, setup, the event
itself, and all cleanup and takedown activities. The insurance policy shall
contain no exceptions or exclusions for activities conducted under or related
to the permitted activities. The permittee shall name the City, its officers,
and employees as additional insureds on a primary non-contributory basis. The
additional insured coverage shall be in a form acceptable to the City. To the
extent reasonably possible, such additional insured coverage shall be in the
minimum amounts of $750,000 per claimant and $1,500,000 per occurrence;
   (D)   The insurance requirements of this section are in addition to and
separate from any other obligations contained in this relevant section or
article or in a permit issued under this code;
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this code shall agree in writing to
defend, hold the City and its employees and officials harmless and indemnify
the City, its employees and officials for any and all claims, lawsuits or
liability including attorney fees and costs allegedly arising out of loss,
damage or injury to a person or a person’s property occurring during the course
of, in preparation of, or in any way pertaining to the event, assembly or
project which are caused by the conduct of employees or agents of the permit
holder; and
   (F)   The Mayor may grant a waiver to the requirements of this provision for
City-sponsored events or when the Mayor determines the parade or public
assembly does not present a substantial or significant public liability or
property damage exposure for the City, its officers, agents and employees. The
Mayor shall consider the applicant’s proven financial inability to obtain the
required coverage. When the Mayor considers requests for waivers, the Mayor
shall base the decision on the factual circumstances presented by the applicant
and decide the specific request on its merits. (Ord. 365, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.6 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer or firefighter may, in the enforcement of
this chapter, seize, impound, remove or cause to be removed, at the expense of
the owner, all stocks of fireworks offered for sale, sold or in the possession
of any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association in violation
of this chapter. Notice of the seizure and the reasons for the seizure shall be
reported to the chief law enforcement officer within 48 hours of the seizure.
   (B)   Fireworks seized under this section may be disposed of in a safe and
proper manner by law enforcement ten days after seizure. Destruction or
disposal of seized fireworks under this provision does not subject the
individual officer or the Department or the City to liability for the cost of
said fireworks.
   (C)   Appeal of any seizure shall be filed with the chief law enforcement
officer in writing within five working days of the seizure. Filing an appeal
shall automatically toll the ten-day waiting period for disposal of the
fireworks pending a decision. The decision of the chief law enforcement officer
on the appeal shall be final. Upon issuance of the decision and notice to the
individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association of the decision, the
disposal or destruction may occur without further delay.
   (D)   Any fireworks display which is approved by permit or provided by the
VFD, or under the supervision of the VFD, shall, prior to the event, mark the
area to be restricted from public access. Upon the area being marked, the
public is prohibited and any member of the VFD wearing clothing identifying the
member as VFD, or any law enforcement officer is authorized to remove the
person from the area. Failure to leave the area may result in a citation for
Failure to Disperse from a Restricted Fireworks Display Area. (Ord. 365, passed
12-3-2018)
§ 5.8.7 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 or more than
$500 for a first offense; a fine of not less than $200 or more than $500 for a
second offense; and a fine of not less than $300 or more than $500 for a third
or subsequent offense. Each day of a violation constitutes a separate offense.
In the case of a violation by a firm, partnership, corporation or association,
the manager or members of the partnership or responsible officers or agents
shall be deemed to be prima facie responsible, individually, and subject to the
penalty as provided.
   (B)   Any damages caused or injuries sustained as a result of any violation
of this chapter shall be ordered paid as restitution as a part of any
conviction for any violation.
   (C)   The court may order the reimbursement of costs of enforcement,
investigation, disposal or destruction, fire suppression services, and overtime
related to a violation upon conviction. (Ord. 365, passed 12-3-2018)
CHAPTER 9: FIREARMS
Section
5.9.1 Definition
5.9.2 Discharge of firearms prohibited
5.9.3 Exceptions; permits
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 236-239, passed 2-3-1969
§ 5.9.1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARMS. Any weapon, including a starter gun, which will or is designed to
or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by action of any explosive,
air-powered or human propulsion; the frame or receiver of any such weapon; and
any firearm muffler or firearm silencer. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a pistol, rifle, shotgun, air rifle, B-B gun, sling or flipper.
(1985 Code, § 9.14.010) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.9.2 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or
description within the City limits; provided, however, that this shall not
apply to any law enforcement officer or game warden, or other designee of the
Chief of Police or Sheriff in the discharge of their duties.
(1985 Code, § 9.14.030) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 5.9.3 EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS.
   At any time the City Council may, upon application, grant permits to
shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting within the City limits in
fixed localities and under fixed rules. Such permits shall be in writing
attested by the City Clerk, conforming to such requirements as the City Council
shall demand and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any
time by action of the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 9.14.040) (Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
CHAPTER 10: SOCIAL HOSTS
Section
5.10.1 Definitions
5.10.2 Prohibited acts
5.10.3 Penalties
5.10.4 Exceptions
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from New Res. 522, passed 10-20-2009
§ 5.10.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. M.C.A. §
16-1-106 defines the following, as used in this chapter.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, also called ethanol, or the hydrated oxide of ethyl.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A compound is produced and sold for human consumption as
a drink that contains more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A malt beverage as defined in Title 16 of the Montana Code.
   EMERGENCY RESPONDERS. Includes, but is not limited to, law enforcement
officers, firefighters, emergency medical service personnel and other persons
having emergency response duties.
   ENFORCEMENT SERVICES OR RESPONSE COSTS. Includes the salaries and benefits
of emergency responders for the amount of time actually spent responding to or
remaining at an event, gathering or party and administrative costs attributable
to the incident; the actual costs for medical treatment for any injured
emergency responder, and the costs of repairing any damage to emergency
responder equipment or vehicles, and the cost of use of such equipment of the
vehicle.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile, natural parent,
adoptive parent, step-parent, legal guardian, person to whom legal custody has
been given by court order.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, company, partnership, association or society
as well as a natural person.
   PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel
or motel room, or other dwelling unit, hall or meeting room, park or any other
place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied on a temporary or
permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for a party or
other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented or used with or
without permission or compensation.
   SOCIAL HOST. Any person, who conducts, allows, organizes, supervises,
controls, permits or aids another in conducting, allowing, organizing,
supervising, controlling or permitting an event or gathering. The term
includes, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Any person or persons who own, rents, leases or otherwise control
the premises where the event, gathering or party takes place;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the premises; and/or
      (3)   The person or persons who organized the activity.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person less than 21 years of age.
   WINE. Alcoholic beverage as defined in Title 16 of the Montana Code.
(1985 Code, § 9.16.010)
§ 5.10.2 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is a violation of this chapter for a social host who knows or reasonably
should know that an underage person has possessed or consumed alcohol at an
event, gathering or party, to fail to take reasonable steps to prevent the
underage consumption or possession by the underage person. The social host does
not have to be present at the event, gathering or party at the time the
prohibited act occurs. (1985 Code, § 9.16.020)
§ 5.10.3 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person convicted of violating this chapter shall be guilty of a
criminal misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than
six months and by a fine of not less than $250 or more than $500, plus court
costs, except that if one or more underage persons found to have been in
possession of or consumed an alcoholic beverage was 16 years of age or under,
the person convicted of violating this chapter shall be punished by
imprisonment of not less than five days, which may not be served on home arrest
in addition to any fee.
   (B)   The imposition or execution of the first two days of any sentence of
jail may not be suspended and the court may not defer imposition of sentence.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the penalties listed above, a person convicted of
violating this chapter shall be responsible for reimbursing the cost of
enforcement services or response costs to agencies furnishing emergency
responders. Any claim for restitution including, but not limited to, those for
enforcement services or response cost, must be filed with the court within 90
days of a conviction under this chapter.
   (D)   A prosecution for violation of this chapter may not be deferred. (1985
Code, § 9.16.030)
§ 5.10.4 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of an alcoholic beverage in a non-intoxicating quantity to a
person under 21 years of age by the person’s parent or guardian, physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes, a licensed pharmacist upon the prescription of
a physician or an ordained minister or priest in connection with a religious
observance shall not constitute a violation of this chapter. See M.C.A. § 16-6-
305. (1985 Code, § 9.16.040)
CHAPTER 11: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
Section
5.11.1 Public assemblies allowed
5.11.2 Notice and permit required
5.11.3 Use of signs and poles restricted
5.11.4 Peaceful demonstration or protest
5.11.5 Violation
5.11.6 General liability insurance when required
§ 5.11.1 PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES ALLOWED.
   (A)   Peaceable public assemblies, demonstrations and protests in accordance
with the rights of free speech under the United States Constitution and the
State Constitution are allowed in the City.
   (B)   Such events may only be held in Springs Park (Baseball Park) in order
to limit disruption of peaceable residential neighborhoods and obstruction of
sidewalks and public streets.
   (C)   Public assemblies, demonstrations or protests may not begin before 9:
00 a.m. and must end by 8:00 p.m. on any weekday or Saturday; and may not begin
before noon and must end by 8:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (D)   Those attending such events do so at their own risk. The City will not
be listed as a sponsor of such event and will not be responsible for the health
or safety of those participating or observing the event.
(Ord. 362, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 5.11.2 NOTICE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Those planning an organized public assembly, demonstration and/or
protest shall file a notice of intent to gather at least one month prior to the
event, listing the date and time, the issue and organization, and the number of
individuals expected to gather, together with a safety plan for the event.
   (B)   Two weeks prior to the date and time, if not listed in the notice of
intent, an organization responsible for a public assembly, demonstration or
protest shall provide the name of the organizer, including contact information;
proof of insurance naming the City of White Sulphur Springs as an additional
insured; or, for events anticipating under 20 participants, in lieu of
insurance, shall post a bond of $5,000 to cover potential injuries or damages
to the location, existing structures, and/or streets or sidewalks in the event
of any damage.
   (C)   An event not sponsored by a specific organization, or anticipating
more than 20 participants, shall be required to obtain insurance for the event
naming the City as an additional insured; events anticipating under 20
participants shall alternatively post a bond of $5,000 to cover potential
injuries or damages to the location, existing structures and/or streets or
sidewalks in the event of any damage.
   (D)   The organizer shall arrange a meeting with the Mayor and the head of
the responsible law enforcement agency one week prior to the event to discuss
issues related to crowd control, parking and other safety concerns to allow the
event to occur peaceably.
   (E)   Events which anticipate attendance in excess of 50 people shall submit
a request for a permit from the City with the notice.
   (F)   A permit fee as set by the Council by resolution shall be due and
payable at the time the notice and permit application are filed.
   (G)   An event conducted without an event permit may be immediately shut
down and the organizer shall be charged with conducting a public assembly
without a permit and fined not less than $300 and more than $500, in addition
to the cost of shutting down the event and any other costs associated with the
event. If there is more than one organizer, the costs shall be assessed as
joint and several among the organizers.
   (H)   Events which appear to be spontaneous shall be immediately quashed
should the event become disorderly. Individuals identified as participating or
inciting the event shall be held responsible, jointly and severally, for any
injuries or damages which may occur and may be charged with incitement of an
unpermitted public assembly, demonstration or protest. Penalty for such
violation shall be a fine of not less than $300 or more than $500. (Ord. 362,
passed 11-21-2017)
§ 5.11.3 USE OF SIGNS AND POLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Signs are restricted to 24 inches by 36 inches, and poles are
restricted in size to rectangular wooden objects no greater than one-quarter
inch in thickness and two inches in width and no longer than three feet in
length, and if not generally rectangular in shape, may not exceed three-quarter
inch in dimension at its widest point. Ends may not have any sharp point.
   (B)   Metal, plastic or other materials shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Camera and sound equipment used by legitimate news agencies alone are
excepted.
   (D)   Anyone using signs or poles during an event other than for lifting a
banner or other message-bearing sign/placard shall be held responsible for any
criminal acts committed using such signs or poles. (Ord. 362, passed 11-21-
2017)
§ 5.11.4 PEACEFUL DEMONSTRATION OR PROTEST.
   (A)   Any assembly, demonstration or protest shall be peaceful and shall not
involve any disturbance. Any such event which devolves into a disturbance or
results in injuries to any participant or observer shall be immediately ended
and anyone failing to disperse, when requested by law enforcement, shall be
seized and held and charged with disturbing the peace, failure to disperse or
other crimes as may be applicable and appropriate, according to state law or
local ordinance.
   (B)   At any event where individuals appear with their identity concealed by
a mask or other article, the responding law enforcement is authorized to stop
and identify the individual and require the concealing article be removed, and
failure to respond to commands will be viewed as obstruction of a peace officer
and treated accordingly.
   (C)   The use of a free public assembly or the use of free speech to
intimidate or coerce a civilian population or the use of the event for the
purpose of influencing government policy by intimidation or coercion, or to
advocate or use the means of mass destruction for a particular end is deemed
domestic terrorism, as that term is defined in federal law. Any acts in
furtherance of such behavior shall be grounds to immediately halt the event and
identify those in attendance. Individuals engaged in such acts shall be cited
under state law or this chapter, and if under this chapter, shall be fined at
least $300 and not to exceed $500, or imprisoned for up to six months or both.
In lieu of jail time, a person may be required to perform at least 50 hours of
community service for the City.
   (D)   Targeting a specific residence or business for the purpose of
disrupting the residents’ peace and privacy, or disrupting the business, by
means of harassment, intimidation or coercion shall be deemed as disturbing the
peace and shall be addressed in accordance with the law of the state. (Ord.
362, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 5.11.5 VIOLATION.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor and, unless
otherwise designated herein, shall be punished as provided under the general
penalty provision of
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 362, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 5.11.6 GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE WHEN REQUIRED.
   An individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association planning a
public assembly, demonstration or protest shall:
   (A)   Be required to provide surety for performance (including, but not
limited to: obtaining liability insurance, bonding, indemnification or monetary
deposits) as provided within the municipal code. This requirement shall include
security or clean-up deposits as stated in the applicable section;
   (B)   (1)   To avoid interference with protected rights of speech and
assembly, any requirement imposed for surety for performance shall be based
upon needs directly associated with the event and not on the basis of possible
disruption of the event by protestors or other persons who might be opposed to
the speech or assembly; and
      (2)   Such restriction, however, shall not apply where the Mayor
determines an event is being scheduled which will unduly and unnecessarily
create a potential for counter-protest or disruption or interference with
public health, safety, welfare or order.
   (C)   Any individual, or corporation required to provide surety in some
manner under the municipal code shall obtain commercial general liability
insurance covering the event, including, but not limited to, setup, the event
itself, and all cleanup and takedown activities. The insurance policy shall
contain no exceptions or exclusions for activities conducted under or related
to the permitted activities. The permittee shall name the City, its officers
and employees as additional insureds on a primary non-contributory basis. The
additional insured coverage shall be in a form acceptable to the City. To the
extent reasonably possible, such additional insured coverage shall be in the
minimum amounts of $750,000 per claimant and $1,500,000 per occurrence.
   (D)   The insurance requirements of this section are in addition to and
separate from any other obligations contained in this relevant section or
article or in a permit issued under this code.
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this code shall agree in writing to
defend, hold the City and its employees and officials harmless and indemnify
the City, its employees and officials for any and all claims, lawsuits or
liability including attorney fees and costs allegedly arising out of loss,
damage or injury to a person or a person’s property occurring during the course
of, in preparation of, or in any way pertaining to the event, assembly or
project which are caused by the conduct of employees or agents of the permit
holder.
   (F)   The Mayor may grant a waiver to the requirements of this provision for
City-sponsored events or when the Mayor determines the parade or public
assembly does not present a substantial or significant public liability or
property damage exposure for the City, its officers, agents and employees,
subject to the bond requirement of this chapter. The Mayor shall consider the
applicant’s proven financial inability to obtain the required coverage. When
the Mayor considers requests for waivers, the Mayor shall base the decision on
the factual circumstances presented by the applicant and decide the specific
request on its merits.
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
1.    TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
2.    OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
3.    LICENSES AND LICENSE PLATES
      
4.    PARKING REGULATIONS
      
5.    SNOWMOBILES
      
6.    BICYCLES
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
6.1.1 Definitions
6.1.2 Enforcement and obedience to traffic regulations
6.1.3 Traffic-control devices
6.1.4 Turning movements
6.1.5 One-way streets and alleys
6.1.6 Special stops required
6.1.7 Miscellaneous driving rules
6.1.8 Public conveyances
6.1.9 Pedestrians’ rights and duties
6.1.10 Methods of parking
6.1.11 Tow-away zones
6.1.12 Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
6.1.13 Stopping for loading or unloading only
6.1.14 Stopping, standing or parking restricted or prohibited on certain
streets
6.1.15 Regulating kinds and classes of traffic on certain streets
6.1.16 Enforcement; penalty for parking violations
6.1.17 Removal of parked, abandoned, or salvage vehicles
6.1.18 Removal of parked cars; costs
6.1.19 Removal of vehicles from private property
6.1.20 Notice to owner of vehicle or land
6.1.21 Public notice by City Clerk
6.1.22 Removal of vehicle by City, its agents or assigns
6.1.23 Enforcement of lien on impounded properties
6.1.24 Methods of advertisement and sale of impounded properties
6.1.25 Proof of ownership; appeal; redemption after sale
6.1.26 Authority of City Mayor to contract
6.1.27 Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 283-302, passed 3-3-1969
§ 6.1.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. That thoroughfare which intersects blocks of the City at the rear of
the lots of said blocks or transverses blocks between regularly established
streets.
   BICYCLE. Means:
      (1)   A vehicle propelled solely by human power upon which any person may
ride, irrespective of the number of wheels, except scooters, wheelchairs and
similar devices; or
      (2)   An electrically assisted bicycle.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare when within 150 feet there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings and public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on
one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the public thoroughfare.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in
such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. Means:
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrians crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during loading or unloading of passengers.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Every officer of the law enforcement office or
Sheriff’s Department or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or
to make arrests for violation or traffic regulations.
   INTERSECTION. Means:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by any intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highway shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle equipped with a seat or saddle for the use of
the operator and designated to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground. A MOTORCYCLE may carry one or more attachments and a seat for
the conveyance of a passenger, but excluding a tractor, bicycle or a moped as
defined in M.C.A. § 61-8-102, a motorized nonstandard vehicle, or a two-or
three-wheeled all-terrain vehicle used exclusively on private property.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the City.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by the authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person on afoot or any person in a manually or mechanically
propelled wheelchair or other low-powered, mechanically propelled vehicle
designed specifically for use by a physically disabled person.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare not comprising a business district when the property on such
thoroughfare for a distance of 150 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the public thoroughfare.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is marked or indicated
by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. The complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement
officer, or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for the purpose of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same, provided that proper signs
are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any public thoroughfare, for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The traffic division of the law enforcement office or
Sheriff’s Department, or in the event a traffic division is not established,
then said term whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the law
enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, except devices moved by animal
power or used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails.
      (1)   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles equipped with audible and
visual signals as required under M.C.A. §§ 61-9-401 and 61-9-402 and operated
when responding to or returning from an emergency call or operated in another
official capacity.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles used in commerce to transport passengers or property and meeting the
definition found in M.C.A. § 61-1-101(10).
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled by its own power and
designed primarily to transport persons or property and includes a quadricycle
or golf cart if equipped for use as prescribed in Title 61, Ch. 9 of the
Montana Code, or as stated in M.C.A. § 61-1-101(47).
(1985 Code, § 10.02.010) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.2 ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of law enforcement and Volunteer Fire Department officials.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the law enforcement office
or Sheriff’s Department or such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police
to enforce all street traffic laws of the state and the City.
      (2)   Officers of the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department or
such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal, provided that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department may direct
traffic as conditions may require.
      (3)   Officers of the Volunteer Fire Department, when at the scene of a
fire, may direct or assist the law enforcement officer in directing traffic on
scene or in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Required in obedience to traffic regulations. It shall be unlawful for
any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required herein.
   (C)   Obedience to law enforcement officer, Sheriff or Volunteer Fire
Department officials. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or
refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a law enforcement
officer, Sheriff’s deputy, or Volunteer Fire Department official.
   (D)   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulation. Every person propelling any pushcart or driving any animal-drawn
vehicle, or riding an animal upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
   (E)   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted. It
shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, or riding any coaster,
scooter, toy vehicle, or similar device to go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when crossing such person shall be
granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street set aside as a play
street.
   (F)   Public employees to obey traffic regulations. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States Government, this state, county or City and it
shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise permitted.
   (G)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         (a)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal but only after slowing down as
may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as the person or
driver does not endanger life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      (3)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion is making
use of an audible or visual signal, or both, meeting the requirements of M.C.A.
§ 61-9-402.
      (4)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequence of their reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (H)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and/or visual signals, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a law
enforcement officer or sheriff’s deputy.
   (I)   Operation of vehicles when approaching a stationary authorized
emergency vehicle. Upon approaching an emergency vehicle or law enforcement
vehicle displaying visible signals of flashing or rotating amber, blue, red or
green lights, the operator of an approaching vehicle shall reduce the vehicle’s
speed, proceed with caution, and, if possible considering safety and traffic
conditions, move to a lane not adjacent to the lane in which the authorized
emergency vehicle or law enforcement vehicle is located or move as far away as
possible and, if changing lanes is not possible, reduce speed and proceed with
caution, and maintain the reduced speed, appropriate to the conditions
existing, through the area where the authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement vehicle is stopped.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.020) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.3 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Authority to install traffic-control devices. The Chief of Police
shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as
required under the traffic regulations of the City to make effective the
provisions of said regulations, and may place and maintain such additional
traffic-control devices as they may deem necessary.
   (B)   Specifications for traffic-control devices. All traffic-control signs,
signals and devices shall conform to the approved specifications. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable
be uniform as to type and location throughout the City. All traffic-control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
shall be official traffic-control devices.
   (C)   Obedience to traffic-control devices. The driver of any vehicle and
the motorman of any bus shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the City, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle.
   (D)   When traffic-control devices required for enforcement purposes. No
provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
   (E)   Traffic-control signal legend. Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or
exhibiting different colored lights successively one at a time or with arrows,
the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   Green alone or “Go”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn left or right unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn.
Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning left or right, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection of an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red
or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing such signals are thereby advised that there
is insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone, until a right turn can safely be made, or until a left turn can
safely be made from the far left lane if the turn is made from a one-way street
onto another one-way street going left. In making such turn vehicular traffic
must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If a traffic sign legend
indicating that no right turn on red or no left turn on red may be made after a
stop is posted at said intersection, such movement cannot be made until green
or “Go” is shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
they can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
they can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
         (c)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their very
nature can have no application.
         (d)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (F)   Pedestrian control signals. Whenever special pedestrian control
signals exhibiting the words “Walk”, “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place, such
signals shall indicate as follows.
      (1)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by
the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed their crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or
safety island while the wait signal is showing.
   (G)   Flashing signals. 
      (1)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
         (a)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
         (b)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is
illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past such signal only with caution.
      (2)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct
of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed
by the rules as set forth herein.
   (H)   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display
upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized signs, signals, markings or
devices which purport to be or are an imitation of, or resemble official
traffic-control devices or railroad signs, or signals, or which attempt to
direct the movement of traffic, or which hide from view or interfere with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control devices or any railroad signs or
signals.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain, or for
any public authority to permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
      (3)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
      (4)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to portable
“Caution” signs placed in the vicinity of schools at those times during which
school children are going to and coming from school.
      (5)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (I)   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs
or signals. It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authority, to
attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription,
shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof.
   (J)   Authority to establish play streets. The Chief of Police shall have
authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place
appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating the same.
   (K)   Play street. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, it shall be unlawful for any person to
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof, except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
   (L)   Chief of Police to designate crosswalks and establish safety zones.
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized:
      (1)   To designate and maintain crosswalks at intersections by
appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, where in
their opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway
and at such other places as they may deem necessary; and
      (2)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as they may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (M)   Traffic lanes.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon
the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
      (2)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.(1985 Code, § 10.02.030)
§ 6.1.4 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersections.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall
do so as follows.
         (a)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
         (b)   Left turn on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
         (c)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection as
nearly as practicable in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
      (2)   A person making a turn under divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)
(1)(c) is entitled to the full use of the lane from which the turn may be
legally made.
   (B)   Bicycles making left turns. A person operating a bicycle who intends
to turn left shall follow the course described in divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)
(c), or such person shall approach the turn as close as practicable to the
right curb or edge of the roadway. After proceeding across the intersecting
roadway, the person shall make the turn as close as practicable to the curb or
edge of the roadway on the far right side of the intersection. After turning,
the person shall yield to through traffic and shall comply with any official
traffic-control device or law enforcement officer regulating traffic on the
roadway along which they intend to proceed.
   (C)   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to place markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
      (2)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, it shall be unlawful for a driver of a vehicle to disobey the
directions of such indicators.
   (D)   Authority to place restricted turn signs. The Chief of Police is
hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
   (E)   Obedience to no-turn signs. It shall be unlawful for any driver of any
vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any street in a business district and shall not upon any other street so turn a
vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.040)
§ 6.1.5 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys. Whenever any regulations
of this City designate any one-way street or alley, the Chief of Police shall
place and maintain signs giving notice thereof and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular
traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period and the opposite
direction during another period of the day and shall place and maintain
appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice thereof.
The Chief of Police may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the centerline of the
roadway.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle
violating such markers, signs, barriers or other devices so placed. (1985 Code,
§ 10.02.050)
§ 6.1.6 SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Authority to erect stop signs. Whenever any of the laws of the City
designate and describe a through street, it shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street intersecting
such through street or intersecting that portion thereof described and
designated as such, unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at
all times by traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the
intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection of a through
street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be
erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by the
Chief of Police upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey.
   (B)   Intersections where stop required. The Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular hazards
exist upon other than through streets and to determine whether vehicles shall
stop at one or more entrances to any such intersection and shall erect a stop
sign at every such place where a stop is required; provided said Chief of
Police may, in their discretion, establish “yield right-of-way” signs at such
intersections as deemed advisable. Such signs shall indicate that an
intersection may be entered without stopping if no vehicles are approaching
along the street whereon the yield right-of-way signs control entering traffic.
   (C)   Signs to bear the word “stop”. Every stop sign erected shall bear the
word “Stop” in letters not less than eight inches in height and such sign shall
at night time be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination
or by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or at the nearest line of the roadway.
   (D)   Vehicles to stop at stop signs. When stop signs are erected as herein
authorized at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or in the event there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a
law enforcement officer or traffic-control signal.
   (E)   Emerging from alley, driveway or building. The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk
or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway; yielding
the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and
upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway.
   (F)   Stop when traffic obstructed. It shall be unlawful for any driver to
enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on
the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle
being operated without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
   (G)   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train.
      (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad and shall not proceed until they can do so
safely.
      (2)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such train
by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing is an immediate hazard; or
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity of such crossing.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
around or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while
such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed. (1985 Code, §
10.02.060)
§ 6.1.7 MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
driver of any vehicle other than one on official business to follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
permit any vehicle to be driven over any unprotected hose of the Volunteer Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Volunteer Fire Department
official in command.
   (C)   Driving through funeral or other processions. It shall be unlawful for
a driver of any vehicle to drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated.
   (D)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
   (E)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the Chief of Police.
   (F)   When permits required for parades and processions. It shall be
unlawful for any funeral procession or parade containing persons or vehicles to
occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth.
   (G)   Driving on sidewalks prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the driver
of a vehicle to drive within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or
temporary driveway. No vehicle shall be parked within any sidewalk area.
   (H)   Limitations on backing. It shall be unlawful for any driver of a
vehicle to back the same unless such movement can be made with reasonable
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (I)   Riding on motorcycles. A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only
upon a permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not
carry any other person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless
such motorcycle is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a
passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two
persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the
operator.
   (J)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon
a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sleds or toy vehicles to attach the same or
themself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1985 Code, § 10.02.070)
§ 6.1.8 PUBLIC CONVEYANCES.
   (A)   Boarding or alighting from vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Unlawful riding. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any vehicle upon any
portion thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space
intended for merchandise.
   (C)   Railroad trains not to block streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of
any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than ten minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to stop within an intersection
or a crosswalk for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
   (D)   Bus stops.
      (1)   Authority is vested in the Chief of Police to designate bus stops
at such locations and in such manner and number as may be necessary and of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such bus at any place for the
purpose of taking on or discharging passengers other than at a bus stop so
designated except in case of emergency.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle at an authorized bus stop so designated or between the right curb and
any such stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle may temporarily
stop thereat for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the discharge or
the pick-up of passengers then in readiness at the curb. (1985 Code, §
10.02.080)
§ 6.1.9 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals. Pedestrians shall be
subject to traffic-control signals at intersections, but at all other places
pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the
restrictions stated herein.
   (B)   Pedestrian’s right-of-way in crosswalks.
      (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian’s
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the conditions and as stated
herein.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
      (3)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half
of crosswalks.
   (C)   Crossing at right angles. It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right angles to the curb
or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a crosswalk.
   (D)   Pedestrian’s right-of-way on sidewalks. The driver of a vehicle
crossing a sidewalk shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and all
other traffic on the sidewalk.
   (E)   When pedestrian shall yield.
      (1)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (2)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      (3)   The foregoing rules have no application under the conditions stated
herein when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
   (F)   Prohibited crossing. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk.
   (G)   Obedience of pedestrians to railroad signals. It shall be unlawful for
a pedestrian to pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
   (H)   Pedestrians walking along roadway.
      (1)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along or
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (I)   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride, employment or business from the occupant of any
vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand on or in close
proximity to a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting the watching or
guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or
highway.
   (J)   Drivers to exercise due care. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by
sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon
observing any child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.090)
§ 6.1.10 METHODS OF PARKING.
   (A)   Standing or parking close to curb. It shall be unlawful for any person
to stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of
the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the
curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (B)   Permit for loading or unloading at angle to curb.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to issue special permits for the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate
any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
   (C)   Lights on parked vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at night-time upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
      (3)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.100) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.11 TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to designate, lay out and establish tow-away
zones and to post proper signs thereon.
   (B)   Parking of vehicles within a designated and posted tow-away zone is
prohibited and vehicles in such tow-away zones shall be subject to removal
therefrom at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   The vehicle may be towed and returned to the general location as
opposed to towed to a storage facility. The citation issued will include the
tow charge in addition to any fine for parking in the restricted area.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.115) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.12 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the direction of a law enforcement officer or traffic-
control device in any of the following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (g)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Chief of Police has indicated a different length of a zone by signs or
markings;
         (i)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (j)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly signposted;
         (k)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation when stopping,
standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (l)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (m)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; and
         (n)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not lawfully
under their control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
   (B)   Parking not to obstruct traffic. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for free and unobstructed movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Parking in alleys. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic, and it shall be unlawful for a person to stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
   (D)   All-night parking prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a vehicle within the business district for and period of time between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day, except hospital staff.
   (E)   Parking of trucks prohibited in business district. The parking of
trucks and/or truck-trailers is hereby prohibited within the business district
unless within a designated loading or unloading zone while actively loading or
unloading.
   (F)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; and
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   (G)   Parking adjacent to schools. 
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in the Chief of Police’s opinion, interfere
with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
      (2)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   (H)   Parking prohibited on narrow streets.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20
feet or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of
the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
      (2)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such signs.
   (I)   Standing or parking on one-way streets. The Chief of Police is
authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand side of any one-way street to
prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles and when such signs are in place,
it shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon such left-
hand side of the street.
   (J)   Standing or parking on one-way streets and roadways. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one
direction upon any such roadway, it shall be unlawful for any person to stand
or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs
are erected to permit such standing or parking. The Chief of Police is
authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the
left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect signs giving notice
thereof.
   (K)   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
by proper signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
      (2)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.110) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.13 STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   (A)   Chief of Police to designate curb loading zones. The Chief of Police
is hereby authorized to determine the location of passengers and freight curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
   (B)   Permits for curb loading zones. The Chief of Police shall not
hereafter designate or sign a curb loading zone upon special request of any
person unless such person shall make application for a permit for such zone and
for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Said permit fee shall be
as set and designated by the Council.
   (C)   Standing in passenger curb loading zone. It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other
than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked
as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable
to such curb loading zone are effective and then only for a period not to
exceed three minutes.
   (D)   Standing in freight curb loading zone. It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time
other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up and loading of
materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (E)   Chief of Police to designate public carrier stop and stands. The Chief
of Police is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands,
taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier motor vehicles on
such public streets in such places and in such number as they shall determine
to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus
stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
   (F)   Stopping, standing and parking of buses.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so
designated, except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the
right front wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and
the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (G)   Restricted use of bus stands. It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.120) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.14 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (A)   Application of section. The provisions of this section prohibiting the
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a law enforcement officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   Regulations not exclusive. The provisions of this chapter imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   (C)   Parking signs required. Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be the duty of the Chief
of Police to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof and such regulations
shall not be effective unless said signs are erected and in place at the time
of any alleged offense.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.130) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.15 REGULATING KINDS AND CLASSES OF TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Load restrictions upon vehicles using certain streets. When signs are
erected by the authority of the Council giving notice thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of
the amounts specified.
   (B)   Restrictions upon use of streets by certain vehicles.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
those heavily traveled streets upon which shall be prohibited the use of the
roadway by motor-driven cycles, bicycles, horse-drawn vehicles or other non-
motorized traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
      (2)   When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.140) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.16 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines. A violation of the parking provision shall be punishable by a
penalty, and the penalties shall be imposed as follows:
      (1)   The minimum penalty for a violation of §
6.1.2 shall be a fine of not less than $50 or more than $300;
      (2)   The minimum penalty for a violation of §§
6.1.10,
6.1.12, and
6.1.13 through
6.1.15 shall be a fine of not less than $15 or more than $100;
      (3)   The minimum penalty for a violation of §
6.1.11 shall be a fine of not less than $25 or more than $100, plus any tow
bill incurred; and
      (4)   The determination of the exact fine shall be according to a
schedule to be adopted by the City Council by resolution.
   (B)   Failure to pay. The determining factor with respect to the penalty is
the issuance of the citation and not the judgment. Failure to pay a citation
for this violation within 14 days of the issuance of the citation results in an
additional administrative charge of $20 being assessed along with the fine.
   (C)   Violation for improperly parked vehicle.
      (1)   If any motor vehicle is found to be in violation of any provision
of these parking sections, the vehicle may be cited for the appropriate parking
violation. The notice of violation shall be in the form of a citation
authorized by the City. The employee or officer issuing the notice of violation
shall note the vehicle’s license plate or vehicle identification number and any
other information concerning the vehicle which will identify it and, if the
driver is not present, shall serve the citation by placing on the vehicle a
notice of the parking violation, or alternatively serve directly on the owner/
operator of the vehicle in person or serve the citation by regular mail.
      (2)   The registered owner of a vehicle at the time the violation
occurred shall be liable for all fines, fees and penalties related to the
specific violation.
      (3)   The registered owner at the time a vehicle is found to be in
violation of any provisions of this chapter shall remain liable for all
violations despite having subsequently sold, transferred or otherwise conveyed
the vehicle.
   (D)   Enforcement. The employee or officers under the supervision of the
Mayor or Chief of Police are authorized to provide enforcement of parking
regulations and issue related notices of violation for parking violations as
set forth in this title or violations of M.C.A. Title 61 and M.C.A. § 49-4-302.
   (E)   Citation. The original citation must be filed with the City Treasurer
and may be disposed of only by official action of the City or by payment of a
fine to the City Treasurer. All payments shall be made to the City Treasurer.
   (F)   Administrative appeal. Any person cited for a violation under this
section may contest the determination of a violation by submitting a written
statement on or before expiration of the 14-day payment period to the City
Treasurer. The statement shall be accompanied by a bond in an amount equal to
the fine to be imposed plus a $20 administrative fee. Upon submission of the
written statement and the bond, the Treasurer shall hold the bond and shall
submit the written statement to the employee or officer issuing the citation.
The employee or officer shall have 20 days to file a response. Upon receipt of
the response, the statement and response will be reviewed by the Mayor. The
Mayor may affirm the citation, modify the citation or dismiss the citation. If
the citation is affirmed, the City Treasurer shall convert the posted bond to
pay the fine and shall notify the owner of the decision. If the citation is
modified, the City Treasurer shall mail written notice of the modification and
refund any amount not covered by the bond. If the citation is dismissed, the
City Treasurer shall mail notice of the decision to the owner along with a
refund of the bond.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.150) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.17 REMOVAL OF PARKED, ABANDONED, OR SALVAGE VEHICLES.
   For the purpose of §§
6.1.18 through
6.1.27, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. A motor vehicle or
personal property which remains upon the streets or other public property of
the City for a period longer than five days, or upon the right-of-way of any
public highway for a period longer than 48 hours, the owner of which cannot be
located, or if the owner refuses to remove the same.
   SALVAGE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, or parts thereof, which have been damaged
or otherwise destroyed and are incapable of movement due to the damage, and
include vehicles which have not been issued a salvage title.
   STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which the law
enforcement department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
   UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Motor vehicles or
other personal property where ownership thereof cannot be ascertained. (1985
Code, § 10.03.010) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.18 REMOVAL OF PARKED CARS; COSTS.
   (A)   The law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department may, in its
discretion, remove or cause to be removed any vehicle under the below-listed
circumstances, keeping it in its custody or under its control at such place as
may be designated by the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department:
      (1)   The vehicle is unidentified (without a valid license plate), or
stolen;
      (2)   The vehicle is parked in a prohibited place or at a time when
parking is prohibited:
         (a)   Such vehicle is obstructing the free movement of traffic;
         (b)   Is causing a traffic hazard; or
         (c)   Is directly interfering with the maintenance or care or
emergency use of the streets.
      (3)   The person in charge cannot be immediately located; or
      (4)   If located, fails, neglects or refuses to move said vehicle at
once.
   (B)   When a vehicle is seized and removed, it shall be held until the
owner, or an authorized agent, applies for the release of the vehicle and has
paid a reasonable cost for removing and storing the vehicle.
      (1)   The costs shall be assessed and collected by the law enforcement
office or Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   The costs shall include all costs incurred in removal, storage and
any subsequent sale, including costs of publication of any notices.
      (3)   Provided the vehicle is redeemed within five days, the charges
shall not exceed the sum of the actual cost of the tow and a fee equal to the
established fine for parking in the location where the vehicle was found.
      (4)   If the vehicle is not redeemed within five days, the cost of
redemption shall be the actual cost and expense of the tow, plus a fee as set
by the Council by resolution per day for storage, plus the established fine for
parking in the location where the vehicle was found.
      (5)   If the vehicle is not redeemed within 30 days, then the sum due and
payable shall be filed as a lien of the City on the vehicle.
   (C)   When the vehicle is removed because it is interfering with the
maintenance or emergency use of the streets by a proper department of the City,
but not otherwise violating this chapter, then the vehicle shall be assessed a
fine equal to the tow charge and any storage fees if the location was properly
posted stating when maintenance is to be performed, and may, in the discretion
of the citing officer, be returned to the owner with a warning and without any
cost or charge for the removal or storage.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.020) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.19 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   If at any time a vehicle is parked upon private property without the consent
of the owner of such property, the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s
Department is hereby authorized to remove the offending vehicle from the
property and cause the vehicle to be stored, providing the owner of the private
property has first signed a complaint against the owner or operator of the
offending vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.030) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.20 NOTICE TO OWNER OF VEHICLE OR LAND.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s
Department to identify the registered owner of any motor vehicle, or part(s) of
the vehicle, which is in violation of any part of this chapter and provide the
City Clerk with the information as to the vehicle owner and the location where
the vehicle was located so a Notice of Violation may be sent to the owner of
the vehicle and/or the owner or lessee of the property.
      (1)   The notice shall identify the vehicle and location and describe the
violation.
      (2)   The notice shall require the vehicle or parts of the vehicle shall
be removed from the City or relocated to a building or fenced storage area
which is properly screened from public view within 72 hours from the date of
service of the notice.
      (3)   The notice may be given by personal service by either an employee
of the City, a member of law enforcement, or by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (B)   Written notice as required in this section shall be deemed to have
been given (constructive notice) when the registered owner of the vehicle or
part(s) of the vehicle, or the owner or lessee of the private property either:
      (1)   Refuses to accept the prepaid, United States mail certified letter
from the City and the letter is returned from the Post Office marked “refused”;
or
      (2)   The person to be notified is present in the City but the
notification letter is returned marked “unclaimed” by the Post Office. In which
case, the City may provide notice by posting or affixing the notice letter in a
conspicuous place at the main entrance or front door of the residence of the
person.
   (C)   Written notice shall include the costs of removal, storage and any
publication and other costs associated with the issue, including parking fines
and fees.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.050) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.21 PUBLIC NOTICE BY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   After diligent search and inquiry by the law enforcement office or
sheriff’s department, a written notice is not required as stated in §
6.1.20(B) above when the registered owner of the vehicle, or the owner or
lessee of the private property (or other person in possession of the private
property) cannot be found or determined. In which case, the public notice shall
be posted by the City Clerk in three public places in the City for five
consecutive days.
   (B)   Such public notice shall include, among other information, “Public
Notice: To Whom It May Concern”, date of event, legal description of the
location where the vehicle was found, including address, a full description of
the vehicle or part(s) involved, when available, the last known person in
possession of the location, and the date or approximate period of time when the
nuisance existed.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.060) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY CITY, ITS AGENTS OR ASSIGNS.
   (A)   In the event any of the owners or lessees referenced in this section,
whether an individual, firm or corporation, fails, neglects or refuses to
remove the wrecked or junked vehicle or part(s) of a vehicle, or refuses or
fails to house the vehicle or part(s) of a vehicle in a building or area fenced
or screened from public view, or otherwise abate the nuisance after the
required notice, the City, its agent or assigns, may remove the vehicle or part
(s) of a vehicle at a cost based upon the current market rate for towing the
vehicle or transporting the part(s), and to be set by resolution with the fines
to be assessed for parking violations.
   (B)   The costs shall be collected, joint and severally, from the registered
owner of the vehicle or the owner of the private property, in the discretion of
the City Mayor.
   (C)   Upon removal by the City, its agents or assigns, the ownership of the
vehicle or the part(s) removed shall be vested in the City, its agents or
assigns, as applicable.
(1985 Code, § 10.02.070) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.23 ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN ON IMPOUNDED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Any personal property impounded by the law enforcement office or
Sheriff’s Department and unredeemed by the owner for a period of 60 days
following the seizure shall be subject to sale by the Chief of Police, together
with the City Mayor, to the highest bidder for cash, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The proceeds of the sale shall be deposited in a City account and
applied first to all removal and storage charges, and any publication or other
costs accumulated against each article. The proceeds remaining, if any, shall
be held by the City Treasurer and shall be kept in a separate fund for a period
of one year from the date of receipt.
   (C)   If, at the end of the year, the former owner of the property has not
made satisfactory proof of claim, then the balance of the proceeds of the sale
shall be credited to the General Fund of the City.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.180) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.24 METHODS OF ADVERTISEMENT AND SALE OF IMPOUNDED PROPERTIES.
   Any impounded property which has been held for a minimum of one year and
remains unclaimed, is subject to public auction or sale. The Chief of Police,
in consultation with the City Mayor, shall determine when to offer the
impounded properties for sale. Prior to a sale, the Chief of Police shall make
a complete and detailed list of the impounded properties to be included in a
publication notice of the sale. The publication of the notice of sale shall be
published for at least ten days in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City. The costs of the publication shall be added to the costs associated with
the impound. The sale may be by public auction or by submission of written bid.
Written bids, when received, may be accepted or rejected as to each separate
item of property and all sales are final only when the successful bidder has
provided cash to the Chief of Police or the City Treasurer. (1985 Code, §
10.03.190) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.25 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property shall
make written application to the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department
and shall furnish such additional proof as may be required to establish
ownership of the identified property. If the putative owner presents the
necessary proof of ownership of the impounded property prior to the date of
actual sale in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, then the
property itself shall be delivered to the owner upon satisfactory payment of
all costs related to the transportation and storage of the property.
   (B)   However, if the subject property has been sold, then Chief of Police
or designee shall endorse its findings of ownership and attach the endorsement
to a copy of the written application and shall forward the application and
findings to the City Clerk. If the endorsed application is presented within one
year after the sale or prior to transfer of the balance to the City General
Fund, then the balance of the proceeds of the sale after all deductions for the
storage and other costs shall be paid to the endorsed owner.
   (C)   Any appeal from the removal, storage and publication costs, if any,
assessed by the law enforcement office or Sheriff’s Department shall be in the
same manner as provided by law.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.200) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.26 AUTHORITY OF CITY MAYOR TO CONTRACT.
   The City Mayor is authorized to enter into a written agreement with a duly
licensed junk dealer for the removal of wrecked or junked vehicles or part(s)
of vehicles under this section. The consideration for the services of the junk
dealer shall be the vehicle or part(s) of the vehicle to be consigned at no
expense to the City. The junk dealer, before entering into a contract with the
City or being appointed its agent or assign in reference to §
6.1.22, shall furnish evidence of public liability insurance to adequately
protect the agent or assign and the City which is deemed reasonable in the
opinion of the City Mayor. In the event a qualified and suitable junk dealer is
not available to contract with or act as the City’s agent or assign as provided
in this section, the City Mayor is authorized to contract with the lowest
responsible bidder to provide for the removal from private property of wrecked
or junked vehicles or part(s) of vehicles under §
6.1.22.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.210) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.1.27 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, unless otherwise specifically designated in this chapter, be
punished by a fine not less than $25 and not exceeding $300, together with the
assessment of any costs incurred by the City in the removal, storage or
publication for sale of any items.
(1985 Code, § 10.03.220) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
CHAPTER 2: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
6.2.1 Driving under the influence prohibited; penalty
6.2.2 Reckless driving; penalty
§ 6.2.1 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of driving under the influence if the
person drives or is actual physical control of:
      (1)   A motor vehicle upon the ways of the city open to the public while
under the influence of alcohol, any drug, or a combination of alcohol and any
drug;
      (2)   A noncommercial vehicle upon the ways of this state open to the
public while the person's alcohol concentration, as shown by analysis of the
person's blood, breath, or other bodily substance, is 0.08 or more;
      (3)   A commercial motor vehicle within this state while the person's
alcohol concentration, as shown by analysis of the person's blood, breath, or
other bodily substance, is 0.04 or more;
      (4)   A noncommercial vehicle or commercial motor vehicle within this
state while the person's delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol level, excluding inactive
metabolites, as shown by analysis of the person's blood or other bodily
substance, is 5 ng/ml or more; or
   (B)   Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising
out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, the
concentration of alcohol in the person at the time of a test, as shown by
analysis of a sample of the person's blood, breath, or other bodily substance
drawn or taken within a reasonable time after the alleged act, gives rise to
the following inferences:
      (1)   If there was at that time an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or less,
it may be inferred that the person was not under the influence of alcohol;
      (2)   If there was at that time an alcohol concentration in excess of
0.04 but less than 0.08, that fact may not give rise to any inference that the
person was or was not under the influence of alcohol, but the fact may be
considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence
of the person; and
      (3)   If there was at that time an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more,
it may be inferred that the person was under the influence of alcohol. The
inference is rebuttable.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection do not limit the introduction of any
other competent evidence bearing on the issue of whether the person was under
the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of alcohol and drugs.
   (D)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is
or has been entitled to use alcohol or such a drug under the laws of this state
does not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this section.
   (E)   Absolute liability, as provided in M.C.A. § 45-2-104, is imposed for a
violation of this section.
   (F)   When the same acts may establish the commission of an offense under
subsection (A), a person charged with the conduct may be prosecuted for a
violation of another relevant subsection under subsection (A). However, the
person may be convicted of only one offense under this section or of a similar
offense under previous laws of this state.
   (G)   AGGRAVATED DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE means a person is in violation
of this section, and:
      (1)   The person's alcohol concentration, as shown by analysis of the
person's blood, breath, or other bodily substance, is 0.16 or more;
      (2)   The person is under the order of a court or the department to equip
any motor vehicle the person operates with an approved ignition interlock
device;
      (3)   The person's driver's license or privilege to drive is suspended,
cancelled, or revoked as a result of a prior violation of driving under the
influence, including a violation of this section or M.C.A. § 61-8-1002(1)(a),
(1)(b), (1)(c), or (1)(d), an offense that meets the definition of aggravated
driving under the influence, or a similar offense under previous laws of this
state or the laws of another state; or
      (4)   The person refuses to give a breath sample as required in M.C.A. §
61-8-1016 and the person's driver's license or privilege to drive was
suspended, cancelled, or revoked under the provisions of an implied consent
statute.
   (H)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished,
for a first offense, by imprisonment for not less than 24 consecutive hours or
more than six months, and shall be fined not less than $600 or more than
$1,000. The jail sentence may not be suspended unless the judge finds that the
imposition of the jail sentence will pose a risk to the defendant's physical or
mental well-being.
   (I)   On a second conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$1,000 or more than $1,500 and by imprisonment for not less than seven days, at
least 48 hours of which must be served consecutively, or more than six months.
Three days of the jail sentence may not be suspended unless the judge finds
that the imposition of the jail sentence will pose a risk to the defendant's
physical or mental well-being.
   (J)   On the third or subsequent conviction, shall be punished by
imprisonment for a term of not less than 30 days, at least 48 hours of which
must be served consecutively, or more than one year, and a fine of not less
than $1,500 or more than $2,500.
   (K)   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary providing for suspension
of execution of a sentence imposed under this subsection, the imposition or
execution of the first ten days of the jail sentence imposed for a third or
subsequent offense that occurred within five years of the first offense may not
be deferred or suspended.
   (L)   In addition to the above penalties, the Court may order sanctions
found under M.C.A. Title 61, Ch. 8, Part 10.
(1985 Code, § 10.04.010) (Res. 569, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -
2022)
§ 6.2.2 RECKLESS DRIVING; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
      (2)   Operate any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property while fleeing or attempting to flee from or elude a
peace officer who is lawfully in pursuit and whose vehicle is at the time in
compliance with the requirements of M.C.A. § 61-9-402.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (A)(1) above shall be
punished upon a first conviction by imprisonment for a period of not more than
90 days or by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $300, or by both such
fine and imprisonment; and on a second or subsequent conviction shall be
punished by imprisonment for not less than ten days or more than six months or
by a fine of not less than $50 or more than $500, or by both such fine and
imprisonment
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (A)(2) shall be
punished by imprisonment for not less than ten days or more than six months to
which may be added at the discretion of the court, a fine of not less than $300
or more than $500. On a second or subsequent conviction, the person shall be
punished by imprisonment for a term of not less than 30 days or more than one
year, to which may be added at the discretion of the court, a fine of not less
than $500 or more than $1,000.
(1985 Code, § 10.04.020)
CHAPTER 3: LICENSES AND LICENSE PLATES
Section
6.3.1 Operator’s licenses
6.3.2 License plates
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 311, 312, passed 3-3-1969
§ 6.3.1 OPERATOR’S LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon the
public thoroughfares of the City unless such person shall have first obtained
and received a valid driver’s or operator’s license issued for the current
year. (1985 Code, § 10.12.010)
§ 6.3.2 LICENSE PLATES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon the
public thoroughfares of the City without having attached to said vehicle a
current license plate. (1985 Code, § 10.12.020)
CHAPTER 4: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
6.4.1 Parking District designated
6.4.2 Time limitations
6.4.3 Alley parking restrictions
6.4.4 Parallel parking
6.4.5 Double parking prohibited
6.4.6 School zone created
6.4.7 Speed limit in school zone
6.4.8 Stops required in school zone
6.4.9 No parking areas
6.4.10 Parking for the disabled; definitions
6.4.11 Regulations
6.4.12 Duties of law enforcement
6.4.13 Duties of other public employees
6.4.14 Violation; penalties
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was amended by Res. 503, passed 9-11-2006
§ 6.4.1 PARKING DISTRICT DESIGNATED.
   The following shall be and is hereby declared to be an area or district of
limited and restricted parking: Main Street from Third Avenue Southwest to
Fifth Avenue Southeast.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.010) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.2 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the streets,
alleys or other public property within the limits of the parking district for a
period longer than or for aggregate periods longer than 14 hours in any one
day.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.020) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.3 ALLEY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any alley except
for loading and unloading only.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.040) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.4 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except when in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals,
it shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park any vehicle in any public street or
roadway other than parallel with the edge of the street or roadway, headed in
the direction of traffic, and with the curb side wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the edge of the street or roadway or of the curbing. (1985 Code, §
10.06.050) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.5 DOUBLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Double stopping, standing or parking, except in obedience to traffic signs,
traffic regulations or signals is expressly prohibited and forbidden on all
public streets and roadways within the City limits. (1985 Code, § 10.06.060)
(Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.6 SCHOOL ZONE CREATED.
   The following portions of the streets of the City are hereby created as a
“School Zone”: that part of Central Avenue beginning at its intersection with
Houston Street, continuing south and ending at its intersection with Crawford
Street; the intersection of Crawford Street and Central Avenue; that part of
Crawford Street beginning at its intersection with Central Avenue, continuing
west and ending at its intersection with Second Avenue Southwest. (1985 Code, §
10.06.070) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.7 SPEED LIMIT IN SCHOOL ZONE.
   On school days, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., it shall be unlawful for
any person to travel in a school zone at a speed greater than 15 mph, whether
driving a vehicle or otherwise, and School District No. 8 is hereby authorized
to place and maintain traffic signs to that effect anywhere in the school zone.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.080) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.8 STOPS REQUIRED IN SCHOOL ZONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful at all times for any person to drive any vehicle
into the school zone without first bringing the vehicle to a complete stop
immediately before reaching the school zone, excepting only that vehicles may
be driven without stopping into the school zone at speeds not greater than 15
mph where the zone intersects with Houston Street and where the zone intersects
with Second Avenue Southwest.
   (B)   The City shall place stop signs at the places where streets intersect
with the school zone and stopping is required, but lack of stop signs at places
where alleys intersect with the school zone or at other places shall not
detract from the requirement that all vehicles must stop.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.090) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.9 NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   On school days between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the west side of Central Avenue
between Chilton Street and Crawford Street, or on Crawford Street and Maginnis
Street East between Central Avenue and First Avenue Southwest.
      (2)   Either the City or said School District No. 8 may place “No
Parking” signs or “No Parking School Zone” signs in the school zone to that
effect.
   (B)   (1)   Violations are subject to a fine of no less than $25 and no more
than $100 for a first offense and no less than $50 or more than $100 for a
second or subsequent offense within one year of the first offense.
      (2)   Vehicles may be towed at the owners expense.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.100) (Ord. 367, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 373, passed 3-3-
2020)
§ 6.4.10 PARKING FOR THE DISABLED; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
6.4.11 through
6.4.14, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABLED PARKING STALL. One so designated by the use of the nationally
recognized handicapped sign or symbol.
   PHYSICALLY DISABLED. One who holds a valid driver’s license and owns a motor
vehicle, other than a commercial vehicle, and had a permanent physical
disability that impairs their mobility when not in a motor vehicle; or
regardless of whether they hold a driver’s license or own a motor vehicle, have
a permanent physical disability that impairs their driving ability and impairs
their mobility when not in a motor vehicle to such an extent that they need to
be driven by another person to a destination.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.110) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.11 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Parking in designated disabled stalls. Pursuant to the provisions of
Title 49, Ch. 4, Part 3, M.C.A., it is unlawful for anyone to park, stop or
stand at a designated disabled parking stall as defined in this section,
whether on the public right-of-way or in public parking lots, except those
displaying a disabled symbol issued by the Division of Motor Vehicles or other
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Display of disabled symbol - privileges. Disabled persons, as defined
in §
6.4.10 , shall be granted the privilege of parking at the designated disabled
locations, as established by the City Council, subject to all other limitations
of this title such as time limit, parking close to the curb and the like, only
when the disabled symbol has been prominently displayed in the windshield of
the vehicle.
   (C)   Exception. The privilege shall not be extended to those persons not
disabled, displaying the disabled symbol while they are not engaged in
transporting, delivering or picking up the disabled.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.120) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.12 DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of law enforcement to enforce the provision of §§
6.4.11 through
6.4.14, issue citations for the violation thereof, and assist in the
prosecution of those persons violating §§
6.4.11 through
6.4.14.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.130) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.13 DUTIES OF OTHER PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States Government, the state, the county
or the City, and it is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions
of §§
6.4.11 through
6.4.14, except those vehicles designated as emergency vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 10.06.140) (Ord. 373, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 6.4.14 VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provision of §§
6.4.10 through
6.4.13 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of $100.
   (B)   However, a person charged with not having a permit may not be
convicted if within 24 hours the person produces in court or the office of the
arresting office a special parking permit previously issued to the person and
valid at the time of the citation. (1985 Code, § 10.06.150) (Ord. 373, passed
3-3-2020)
CHAPTER 5: SNOWMOBILES
Section
6.5.1 Regulations
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ord. 318, passed 11-3-1969
§ 6.5.1 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All of Main Street and all of Third Avenue Southwest are closed to the
operation of snowmobiles. Crossing of said two streets may occur at a 90-degree
angle, but snowmobiles are not to be operated on said streets.
   (B)   All operators of snowmobiles must possess a valid driver’s license to
operate snowmobiles on the City streets and alleys.
   (C)   Operation of snowmobiles must conform to all City ordinances for the
governing of traffic or vehicles in addition to the hereinafter set forth
regulations.
   (D)   Snowmobiles may be operated on the designated streets and alleys of
the City from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (E)   In order to operate a vehicle on the City streets and alleys
designated for their operation, snowmobiles must be equipped with a muffler and
have no noise increasing device such as, but not specifically limited to, a
megaphone or straight pipes.
   (F)   A snowmobile in order to operate on the streets and alleys of the City
or those places designated therein must be equipped with a five-foot whip
antenna and a colored flag of high visibility color.
   (G)   In order to operate on the City streets and alleys, or those places
designated therefor, a snowmobile must be equipped with a lighted headlight and
taillight and such items must be employed and in use whenever the vehicle is
operating on the streets or alleys in the City.
   (H)   Said vehicle must be equipped with an operating brake before the same
can be operated on the streets and alleys of the City.
   (I)   No snowmobile may be operated on private property without the
permission of the owner of said private property.
   (J)   Snowmobiles may not be operated on sidewalks or posted areas in the
City.
   (K)   Snowmobiles may not be used for towing with the following exceptions:
any snowmobile can be used to tow an object; person or thing, provided said
object, person or thing is towed with a fixed, rigid towing bar of not more
than six feet in length.
   (L)   Snowmobiles may be operated by non-licensed drivers on the City ball
park and other designated areas within the City limits, as approved by the
school authorities or those other designated areas so approved. This, however,
is not to infer that said non-licensed operators shall be allowed to transport
said vehicles to their place of use in contradiction to the above-stated
statutes to the effect that all drivers must be equipped with a valid driver’s
license. (1985 Code, § 10.10.010)
CHAPTER 6: BICYCLES
Section
6.6.1 Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
6.6.2 Obedience to traffic-control devices
6.6.3 Riding on bicycles
6.6.4 Speed
6.6.5 Emerging from alley or driveway
6.6.6 Clinging to vehicles
6.6.7 Carrying articles
6.6.8 Parking
6.6.9 Lamps and other equipment
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was derived from Ords. 274-282, passed 3-3-1969
§ 6.6.1 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   On school days between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., it shall be unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle on the west side of Central Avenue between Chilton
Street and Crawford Street, or on the north side of Crawford Street between
Central Avenue and First Avenue Southwest; either the City or said School
District No. 8 may place “No Parking” signs in the school zone to that effect.
(1985 Code, § 10.08.010)
§ 6.6.2 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signs, signals and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle
to disobey the direction of any such sign, except when such person dismounts
from the bicycle to make such turn in which event such person shall then obey
the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1985 Code, § 10.08.020)
§ 6.6.3 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of public thoroughfares set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
public thoroughfare, bicycle riders shall use such path. (1985 Code, §
10.08.030)
§ 6.6.4 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1985 Code,
§ 10.08.040)
§ 6.6.5 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(1985 Code, § 10.08.050)
§ 6.6.6 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while riding upon any bicycle to attach
the conveyance or be attached to any vehicle upon any public thoroughfare;
however, a bicycle trailer or bicycle semitrailer may be attached to a bicycle
if that trailer or semitrailer has been designed for such attachment.
(1985 Code, § 10.08.060)
§ 6.6.7 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handle bars. (1985 Code, § 10.08.070)
§ 6.6.8 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle on a sidewalk or other
such places in such manner as to impede normal and reasonable movement of
pedestrians and other traffic.
(1985 Code, § 10.08.080)
§ 6.6.9 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to rear-facing reflectors required
by this section.
   (B)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with an
essentially colorless front-facing reflector, essentially colorless or amber
pedal reflectors, and a red rear-facing reflector. Pedal reflectors shall be
mounted on the front and back of each pedal.
   (C)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with either
tires with retro-reflective side-walls or reflectors mounted on the spokes of
each wheel. Spoke mounted reflectors shall be within 76 millimeters (three
inches) of the inside of the rim and shall be visible on each side of the
wheel. The reflectors on the front wheel shall be essentially colorless or
amber and the reflectors on the rear wheel shall be amber or red.
   (D)   Reflectors required by this section shall be of a type approved by the
State Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (E)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to stop within no more than 25 feet from a speed of 10 mph on dry,
level, clean pavement.
   (F)   Every bicycle is encouraged to be equipped with a flag clearly visible
from the rear and suspended not less than six feet above the public
thoroughfare when the bicycle is standing upright. The flag shall be
fluorescent orange in color.
(1985 Code, § 10.08.090)
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.    SIDEWALKS
      
2.    REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE
      
3.    SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
      
4.    TREES
      
5.    PARKS AND PUBLIC SPACES
CHAPTER 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
7.1.1 Supervision for construction
7.1.2 Approval required
7.1.3 Costs borne by property owner
7.1.4 Procedure prior to construction
7.1.5 Conformance with official grade
7.1.6 Dimensions for width
7.1.7 Resolution adopting standard plans
7.1.8 Council to approve materials
7.1.9 Property owner to maintain
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 255-263, passed 3-3-1969
§ 7.1.1 SUPERVISION FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks, crosswalks and curb stones laid and constructed within the
City limits shall be laid in accordance herewith and under the direction and
supervision of such persons as the City Council shall designate. (1985 Code, §
12.02.010)
§ 7.1.2 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No sidewalks, crosswalks or curb stones shall be laid except by direction or
with the approval of the City Council. (1985 Code, § 12.02.020)
§ 7.1.3 COSTS BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   The entire cost of such work shall be borne by the owner of the property
adjoining, or the district assessed as by law provided, within which the work
shall be located. (1985 Code, § 12.02.030)
§ 7.1.4 PROCEDURE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The procedure preliminary to the construction of any sidewalks, crosswalks
or curb stones shall be as follows.
   (A)   A property owner may, of their own volition, proceed with the
construction of sidewalks, crosswalks or curb stones after having received
permission therefor from the Council.
   (B)   The Council may, of its own initiative, or by petition from the
property owner affected, order the construction of such sidewalks, crosswalks
or curb stones, as the public safety and convenience may require, proceeding
therein in the manner prescribed by law.
   (C)   The Council, of its own initiative or by petition from the property
owner affected, creates a special improvement district for the purpose of
carrying out said construction, and proceeding therein in the manner prescribed
by law. (1985 Code, § 12.02.040)
§ 7.1.5 CONFORMANCE WITH OFFICIAL GRADE.
   All sidewalks, crosswalks and curb stones shall be laid to conform with the
official grade as established, or as to be established and recorded by
resolution in the minutes of the Council. (1985 Code, § 12.02.050)
§ 7.1.6 DIMENSIONS FOR WIDTH.
   The width dimensions of all sidewalks, crosswalks and curb stones to be
laid, as well as position relative to property lines and to each other, shall
be fixed by resolution of the Council and recorded in the minutes thereof.
(1985 Code, § 12.02.060)
§ 7.1.7 RESOLUTION ADOPTING STANDARD PLANS.
   The Council shall, by resolution, adopt certain plans to be designated as
“Standard Plans”, and certain specifications to be designated as “Standard
Specifications”, regulating and governing the construction of all work
hereinafter mentioned, and to which all said work shall conform. (1985 Code, §
12.02.070)
§ 7.1.8 COUNCIL TO APPROVE MATERIALS.
   In ordering and directing the construction of any of the work herein
mentioned, or in granting the petition of any property owner for the
construction of their own work, the Council shall designate the kind of
materials to be used. (1985 Code, § 12.02.080)
§ 7.1.9 PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN.
   All sidewalks and curb stones shall be maintained in good condition at the
expense of the property owner adjoining the section of sidewalk or curb at
issue, and when in the opinion of the Council the best interest of all
concerned would be improved, it may order the removal of any old work and
reconstruction with new as hereinbefore provided, and designating in said order
the kind or kinds of material to be used.
(1985 Code, § 12.02.090) (Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 2: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE
Section
7.2.1 Removal of snow and/or ice
7.2.2 Notice to be given
7.2.3 Removal by City
7.2.4 Violations; penalty assessment; collection; appeal
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 271-273, passed 3-3-1969
§ 7.2.1 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND/OR ICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises abutting
or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and/or ice from such
sidewalk. Thus, public sidewalks shall be cleared within 24 hours of any
snowfall with accumulation of one-half inch or greater. Snow removal shall be
limited to areas on the individual's property and not into the City right-of-
way, the street, against the neighboring property, or blocking any drain or
drainage area. Arrangements for the removal of accumulated snow so as to reduce
icy areas and ensure proper drainage flow to and into a drain or drainage area
shall be made for properties without any yard or storage area for snow.
   (B)   Removal of snow refers to shoveling, snow blowing, plowing, or
otherwise displacing snow, ice or slush from private drives or public sidewalks
by the owner or tenant, or any agent hired by the owner or tenant.
   (C)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any accumulation of
snow or ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway, curb or
gutter, any marked loading or unloading zone, or any property of the City which
is used for the storing of snow off-street, or any area designated for use by
emergency vehicles, such as fire lanes.
      (1)   A single-use exception may be granted for depositing snow on City
property used for storing snow off-street upon making application to the Mayor
and receiving written permission.
   (D)   No person shall obstruct the vision of motorists on the roadway or
those entering the roadway by the removal of snow, ice or slush from a sidewalk
or driveway, and the deposit of such snow, ice or slush at the end of a
driveway, on the roadway, or along a curb creating a blockage of a drain or
drainage area or impairing travel on the roadway or creating a hazard to the
plow equipment.
   (E)   Owners or tenants of any premises who cannot make satisfactory
arrangements to remove snow in compliance with this section may contact the
City to arrange for snow removal, which shall be at the owner's or tenant's
expense, subject to their ability to pay.
   (F)   No person shall deposit snow in a location which may, as the result of
melting, create a hazard to properties neighboring and/or abutting the deposit
location without the consent of the property owner to be affected.
(1985 Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 7.2.2 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN.
   It shall be the duty of the City to give notice to any owner or tenant of
any such premises to remove snow and/or ice, which notice shall be sent by
registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant;
the tenant or owner shall have not more than 24 hours from and after receipt of
such notice within which to remove the snow and/or ice as set forth in said
notice. (1985 Code, § 12.04.020)
§ 7.2.3 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the City shall have the right to remove such snow and/or ice and
assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk.
(1985 Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 7.2.4 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY ASSESSMENT; COLLECTION; APPEAL.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   The Public Works Division shall, in the course of their duties,
record the street address of the property, the name of the owner, if known, the
nature of the deposit, the dates and costs of snow removal occasioned by the
depositing of snow or ice in violation of this provision, when observed by a
member of staff, including the costs of any private contractors hired for snow
removal and any administrative costs, and shall turn such information over to
the Mayor and the City Clerk.
      (2)   Individuals or companies identified as depositing snow in violation
of this provision, either by City staff or upon report by a citizen and
verification by City staff, shall have their name, the date or dates of any
activity in violation of this provision turned over to the City Clerk for
assessment.
      (3)   Individuals or companies identified as depositing snow which
creates a hazard to a neighboring property due to obstruction of sight or
melting hazards shall have their name, the date or dates of activities
constituting a violation of this provision turned over to the City Clerk for
assessment.
      (4)   Notice of violation shall be mailed in the same manner as provided
in
7.2.2 of this provision.
   (B)   Penalty assessment.
      (1)   Any person, property owner, or company determined to be in
violation of this provision after notice as provided in
7.2.2 shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $100 or more than
$300, plus assessment of any costs associated with the removal of the snow or
ice deposit, or repair of a neighboring property.
      (2)   Assessment of the civil penalty shall be mailed by the City Clerk
based on information provided by the Public Works Division. The penalty shall
be due and payable within 30 days of the date of the notice. The payment of
such amount may be enforced through suit for collection or by levying an
assessment on the premises or both.
   (C)   Collection.
      (1)   All assessments levied shall be charged simple interest at the rate
of ten percent per year from the date the work and violation occurred until the
assessment is fully paid and satisfied.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall, each year, prepare and present to the
Council, on or before the second regular meeting in July, or as required by the
County or state law, a resolution containing a list of all lots and parcels of
land in the City wherein the adjacent and/or fronting sidewalks have had snow
and ice removed by or at the direction of the City, or other remedial measures
have been taken, together with the names of the owners thereof, and the cost of
removal of such snow and ice or other remediation or penalty has been assessed.
When such resolution is passed by the Council and approved by the Mayor the
assessments therein provided for shall constitute a lien upon and against such
lots and parcels of land. A copy of such resolution shall be certified by the
City Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as other
taxes.
   (D)   Appeals. The Mayor shall entertain any appeal of a notice of violation
or assessment under this provision. Any property owner or individual wishing to
appeal the notice of violation or assessment will submit their appeal, in
writing, within 30 days of the date of the first notice or within five working
days prior to the City Council meeting at which the assessment is being
considered, whichever is sooner. The decision of the Mayor as to the appeal is
final.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 3: SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
Section
7.3.1 Obstructing sidewalks prohibited
7.3.2 Enforcement; permits
7.3.3 Removal of obstructions
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from Ords. 93, 94, 95, passed 12-2-1968
§ 7.3.1 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided in Title 6, Chapter 4 of this code, and as otherwise
hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to obstruct City streets, including
sidewalk areas of streets, by the parking of vehicles or by placing therein any
materials in order to store the same, or for any purpose not incidental to the
transportation thereof. Sidewalk areas within the intent and meaning of this
chapter are strips of land forming parts of City streets as established by
official plats and records, being six feet in width as measured from lot lines
of lands abutting on streets toward the centerline of streets. Main Street is
excepted from the foregoing definitions. (1985 Code, § 12.06.010)
§ 7.3.2 ENFORCEMENT; PERMITS.
   The Streets and Alleys Committee of the Council shall have supervision of
all streets, including sidewalk areas, and shall be charged with the
enforcement of this chapter. The Committee may, in the administration of this
chapter, authorize uses of streets in industrial and business sections of the
City which would otherwise be unlawful whenever, in the opinion of the
Committee, it is in the public interest to do so. Such authorization shall be
given only by written permit, for business purposes deemed nonhazardous to
public health and safety and shall, in every instance, be evidenced by a
written permit to be issued under the authority of the Committee, wherein shall
be stated the name of the person to whom the permit is issued, the purpose for
which it is given and the expiration date thereof. (1985 Code, § 12.06.020)
§ 7.3.3 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Streets and Alleys Committee
that there exists an obstruction of the public ways in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the Committee shall cause written notice to be
given to the owner or occupant of the abutting premises, describing the
obstruction and demanding the removal of same within a reasonable time, to be
stated in the notice. If the obstruction be not removed within the time limited
by the notice, or in case the owner or occupant or other person responsible for
creating the obstruction cannot be found, the Committee may cause it to be
removed to the City dump or impounded. Whenever, in the opinion of the
Committee, circumstances warrant, the creation or maintenance of an obstruction
in violation of this chapter may be prosecuted. (1985 Code, § 12.06.030)
CHAPTER 4: TREES
Section
7.4.1 Definitions
7.4.2 Duties and responsibilities
7.4.3 Tree species to be planted
7.4.4 Spacing
7.4.5 Distance from curb and sidewalk
7.4.6 Distance from street corners and fireplugs
7.4.7 Utilities
7.4.8 Public tree care
7.4.9 Pruning standards
7.4.10 Tree topping
7.4.11 Pruning and corner clearance
7.4.12 Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
7.4.13 Removal of stumps
7.4.14 Protection of trees
7.4.15 Interference with City
7.4.16 Arborists license and bond
7.4.17 Hedges and shrubbery
7.4.18 Injury to trees or shrubbery
7.4.19 Review by City Council
7.4.20 Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from New Res. 492, passed 2-3-2003 and Ords. 267-270,
passed 3-3-1969
§ 7.4.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on public
right-of-way lying between property lines on either side of all streets,
avenues or ways within the City.
(1985 Code, § 14.02.010)
§ 7.4.2 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Council to study,
investigate, counsel, develop and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will
be reviewed annually by the City Council and upon approval shall constitute the
official comprehensive City tree plan.
   (B)   The City Council shall promote and supervise the establishment of a
tree inventory for street and park trees. The inventory shall be updated with
the results of ground inspections every three years. (1985 Code, § 14.02.020)
§ 7.4.3 TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The City Council develops and maintains a list of desirable trees for
planting along streets in three size classes based on mature height: small
(under 20 feet); medium (20 to 40 feet); and large (over 40 feet). Efforts
shall be made to ensure a sufficient diversity of tree species. Lists of trees
not suitable for planting will also be created by the City Council. (1985 Code,
§ 14.02.030)
§ 7.4.4 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
7.4.3, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees: 15 feet; medium trees: 25 feet; and large trees: 35 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect. (1985 Code, §
14.02.040)
§ 7.4.5 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
7.4.3, and no trees may be planted closer than two feet for small trees and
three feet for medium or large trees to any curb or sidewalk.
(1985 Code, § 14.02.050)
§ 7.4.6 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street
tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(1985 Code, § 14.02.060)
§ 7.4.7 UTILITIES.
   No street trees, other than those species accepted as small trees by the
City Council, may be planted under, or within ten feet of, any overhead utility
wire. (1985 Code, § 14.02.070)
§ 7.4.8 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Council may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with §§
7.4.3 through
7.4.6. (1985 Code, § 14.02.080)
§ 7.4.9 PRUNING STANDARDS.
   All tree pruning on public property shall conform to reasonable and
customary standards for tree care operations. (1985 Code, § 14.02.090)
§ 7.4.10 TREE TOPPING
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or City
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Crown reduction by a qualified
arborist may be substituted, where appropriate. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the City Council. (1985 Code, § 14.02.100)
§ 7.4.11 PRUNING AND CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the City shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not severely
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet above street
surface or eight feet above the sidewalk surface. Said owners shall remove all
dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute
a menace to the safety of the public. The City shall have the right to prune
any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread
of light along the street from a street light, or interferes with visibility of
any traffic-control device or sign or sight triangle at intersections.
   (B)   Tree limbs that grow near high voltage electrical conductors shall be
maintained clear of such conductors by the electric utility company in
compliance with any applicable franchise agreements. A utility tree trimming
policy must be reviewed by the utility company and City Council prior to any
trimming by the utility company. (1985 Code, § 14.02.110)
§ 7.4.12 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the City, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease, which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the City. The City Council will notify
in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at
their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the City shall have
the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the
owner’s property tax notice. (1985 Code, § 14.02.120)
§ 7.4.13 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. (1985 Code, § 14.02.130)
§ 7.4.14 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   In order to maintain the overall forest, reasonable efforts shall be
made to replace trees that are removed and to protect quality trees that are
endangered.
   (B)   Trees removed by decision of the City Council or by natural causes
shall be replaced somewhere in the forest on a one-for-one basis within one
year. The location and species of any replacement tree shall be determined by
the City Council.
   (C)   Trees of desirable species and good health shall be protected as much
as possible from damage during construction, sidewalk repair, utilities work
above and below ground, and other similar activities. The zone of protection
shall include the ground beneath the canopy of the tree. (1985 Code, §
14.02.140)
§ 7.4.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Council, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park
trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (1985 Code, §
14.02.150)
§ 7.4.16 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
City without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be as set by Council by resolution; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company including electric utilities and their
agents and contractors or City employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant
shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum
amounts of $300,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying
the City or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described. Insurance amounts may vary in different states.
(1985 Code, § 14.02.160)
§ 7.4.17 HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY.
   Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the City. (1985
Code, § 14.02.170)
§ 7.4.18 INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, to willfully injure, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1985 Code, § 14.02.180)
§ 7.4.19 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person may appeal any ruling or order concerning trees to the City
Council, who may hear the matter and make final decisions. (1985 Code, §
14.02.190)
§ 7.4.20 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000. (1985 Code, §
14.02.200)
CHAPTER 5: PARKS AND PUBLIC SPACES
Section
7.5.1 Intent
7.5.2 Application and enforcement
7.5.3 Definitions
7.5.4 Parks Advisory Committee
7.5.5 Limitation on use
7.5.6 Hours of operation
7.5.7 Prohibited acts
7.5.8 Animals in parks or park facilities
7.5.9 Netted court uses and prohibitions
7.5.10 Alcoholic beverages in park prohibited; exceptions
7.5.11 General policy regarding use of city parks and parks facilities
7.5.12 Categories of users
7.5.13 Park permit application process
7.5.14 Insurance
7.5.15 Use of tax-supported facilities for amusement for gain or for personal
or private profit
7.5.16 Vending in public parks and recreation facilities
7.5.17 Violations
§ 7.5.1 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to ensure maximum public enjoyment of the
City's parks and other public lands and facilities while imposing reasonable
time, place, and manner controls. Such controls shall be administered in an
appropriate and limited approach so as to allow for use as well as maintenance
of the City's parkland and facilities in a manner which allows for exercise of
constitutional and statutory rights including expression and assembly in
accordance with applicable limits and controls. To this end, the rules and
regulations contained herein are intended to promote the health, safety, and
orderly use of the City parks and lands by the public. Any and all applications
for use of a park or facility shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.2 APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The terms of this chapter shall apply to all existing and hereafter acquired
parkland whether acquired by dedication, deed, or other acquisition for park
purposes, and all facilities designated for recreational or other purposes
located within or outside the boundaries of the City when such parkland or
facility has been placed under the authority of the White Sulphur Springs City
Council. The City Council has the authority to promulgate or approve rules and
regulations for all park and public lands placed under its jurisdiction, so
long as such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the rights and
obligations found in applicable constitutional and statutory regulations. The
Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of such City parks and public lands.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAYOR. The City Mayor or designee.
   OPEN SPACE. Land which is provided or preserved for park or recreational
purposes, conservation of land or other natural resources, historic or scenic
purposes, or assists in shaping the character, direction, and timing of
community development (see also Park or Parks, Park Facility, Public Lands).
   PARK OR PARKS, PARK FACILITY. An area of open land identified and set aside
by the City for use for recreational or other activities, which may or may not
be identified by boundaries such as fences, and may include a building,
equipment, or other man-made features, and is intended to be preserved in a
natural or semi-natural state (see also Public Lands).
   PERMIT. Written permission granted by the City for the use of a park or
facility upon the approval of an applicable completed form, submission of
required documents, and payment of required costs.
   PUBLIC LANDS. An area or portion of land or water managed by the City which
may or may not be designated as a park, but may be accessed by dedicated public
road, right-of-way, or easement and includes public waters (see generally, MCA
77-1-101).
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land, property, or any interest in land or property,
usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to highway or road purposes and may
include easements.
   VENDOR. Any person or business employed in the retailing, or offering for
sale, of food, beverages, or other merchandise either on the street, from their
person, or from a stand in allowed public parks and recreation facilities, and
may include itinerant vendors as defined in §
3.3.1 . Vendors must possess the required business license or an exemption from
a business license.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.4 PARKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   With the concurrence of the City Council, the Mayor may appoint a five
member Parks Advisory Committee to advise the City Council on park maintenance
and development, to review and work on open space issues, to prepare or update
a Parks Master Plan as needed, and to assist the Council in the implementation
of that Plan. A council member appointed by the Mayor will serve as the Council
Liaison to the Parks Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.5 LIMITATION ON USE.
   No party shall enter or remain within a City public park, or a City park
facility while their privilege to use the public parks is suspended or
rescinded.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.6 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Hours. City parks shall be open to the public every day of the year
subject to exceptions as established herein.
   (B)   General closure. Any section of a park, park facility, or property may
be closed to the public by the Mayor or the Public Works Division whether for
maintenance or for other reasons. Notice of such closure shall be posted in a
conspicuous manner.
   (C)   Night closure. No individual or group shall remain within the
boundaries of any City public park or facility between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., without first gaining written authorization from the Mayor or
designee. This provision does not exempt minors from the requirements of §
5.5.2  of the City Code (see also § 4.5.5 of the City Code as to loud noises).
   (D)   The City shall cause to be posted, in each public park, the hours of
operation, which may include more restricted hours for a particular park,
section of the park, or facility.
   (E)   Closure of a park or park facility or property does not restrict
authorized personnel from entering the park or park facility to perform
authorized work.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.7 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Within City parks or facilities or on City public lands, it shall be
unlawful for any party to:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace
or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving
or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
      (2)   Damage, cut, carve mark, transplant, or remove any plant,
landscaping, tree or shrub, or injure the bark, dig in or otherwise disturb
grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or usefulness of any
area.
      (3)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary, or run or string any public utility into, upon
or across park or recreational facility property, except on special written
permit issued hereunder.
      (4)   Attach any rope, cable, structure, device or other contrivance to
any tree, fence, railing, bridge, bench, building or other structure unless
otherwise posted. This prohibition does not include locking bicycles to the
foregoing mentioned structures as long as no damage is done to the structure
and so long as the bicycle does not interfere with the use and enjoyment of the
park by others, and so long as the bicycle is not locked to the structure for a
period of time not to exceed 24 hours.
      (5)   Bring in, dump, deposit or leave any garbage, refuse, or other
trash. No refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any
City park or public lands, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall
be placed in the proper receptacles where provided; where receptacles are not
provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the
party responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
      (6)   Disturb the peace by quarreling, challenging to fight, fighting,
making loud or unusual noises, or otherwise engaging in conduct prohibited by §
5.4.6 of this Code.
      (7)   Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
      (8)   Commit any offense against another person, including but not
limited to assault such as that prohibited by §
5.4.4 of this Code.
      (9)   Camp or otherwise stay overnight within the boundaries of any park,
park facility, or public lands.
      (10)   Smoke or vape within the boundaries of any park or park facility,
unless doing so in a designated area. The City may, but is not required to,
designate areas for the use of these products on City public lands or right-of-
way.
      (11)   Drive or operate, leave, park, or repair any motor vehicle upon,
across or onto any park or City public lands. The foregoing shall not apply to
vehicle use in designated parking areas during hours of operation, or vehicle
use by authorized City employees for purposes of park maintenance or operation.
Should a vehicle become disabled or be rendered disabled and in need of repair,
the owner or responsible party shall immediately arrange for the vehicle to be
removed and shall promptly notify City staff or a law enforcement officer of
the problem.
      (12)   Hunt, trap, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase,
tease, shoot or throw missiles at any animal, nor remove from the park or have
in their possession any animal, or the eggs or nest or young of any animal, or
gather firewood, or use a motor vehicle in unauthorized areas. An exception to
the foregoing is made in the case of snakes known to be poisonous which may be
killed on sight. This provision does not apply to law enforcement officers,
local, state, or federal, who are acting in their official capacity and within
the course and scope of their duties. Nor does this provision apply to
authorized personnel entering the park or park facility to conduct pest control
activities.
      (13)   Paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement, inscription, or sign without written permission.
      (14)   Build any fire except in established fireplaces (firepits) or
portable gas (including but not limited to propane, LPG, and white gas)
fireplaces or barbecues. The use of charcoal is prohibited except when used in
established grills or as authorized through the permitting process. Authorized
fires shall be attended at all times.
      (15)   Discharge any firearm, air gun, or other weapon which might be
classified as potentially dangerous within any public park or facility.
      (16)   Hit golf balls, engage in archery, throw metal spears or atlatls,
use a boomerang, or otherwise cause the flight of any dangerous projectiles
within a public park, except in areas specifically designated for that use,
such as an archery range, golf course or horseshoe area. Temporary designated
locations for such activities require a special permit and valid insurance.
      (17)   Outside of designated picnic areas, possess or use any glass
container for any purpose.
      (18)   Within any park property or facility, fail to remove broken glass
and safely dispose of such glass in a proper receptacle so as not to cause
injury to persons or property.
      (19)   Discharge any fireworks without proper permit as provided in
Title 5, Chapter 8 of this City Code.
   (B)   The foregoing shall not limit or invalidate any other public conduct
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall have authority to establish other rules for the
use of parks and public lands under its control which, when posted, shall be
enforced in the same manner as ordinances of the City.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.8 ANIMALS IN PARKS OR PARK FACILITIES.
   (A)   Domestic animals within any park or City public lands shall be kept
under restraint except where specifically designated as 'off leash' parks (see
§
5.2.6).
   (B)   Every person having any animal under their ownership, custody,
supervision, or control shall promptly and thoroughly remove and properly
dispose of all excrement left by the animal upon any City park or City public
land (see §
5.2.15.).
   (C)   Other domesticated animals, such as horses, chickens, or livestock,
may not be pastured, penned, or caged within public parks or park facilities
except with a valid permit.
   (D)   Animals may not be tied or hitched in any fashion to any tree or
plant.
   (E)   Service animals authorized under the Americans with Disabilities Act
may be exempt from restrictions such as leashes, and restrictions from
buildings, when in the performance of their duties, particularly if a restraint
device might interfere with their work or the service animal's safety, but must
be under the control of the handler, which including but not limited to voice
control. Owners may be exempt from picking up after a service animal if the
owner is not physically capable of performing this function of ownership.
Determination as to an exemption shall be at the discretion of the law
enforcement officer or park employee involved in enforcement of this provision.
   (F)   The provisions of this part shall not limit or invalidate any other
ordinance regarding animals.
   (G)   Penalties for violating this section shall be as set forth in §
5.2.6(H).
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.9 NETTED COURT USES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall use the netted courts in any public park for purposes
other than netted sports.
   (B)   No person shall hang on tennis nets, or operate motor vehicles, pedal
bikes, roller skates or skateboards, or otherwise abuse the netted sports court
in any public park.
   (C)   Tennis shoes are to be worn at all times on the netted court's
surface.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.10 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PARK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in all City parks
and facilities except as set out in subsection (B) of this section. Alcoholic
beverages discovered in violation of this section shall be considered
contraband, and are subject to confiscation and/or destruction or disposal by
law enforcement.
   (B)   Members of groups or organizations who obtain an open container waiver
issued by the City shall be exempt from this prohibition on the condition that
such group or organization complies with all laws and all requirements and
terms of the issued permit (see generally: §§
5.6.1 -
5.6.6).
   (C)   An exemption for an open container waiver does not permit possession
of an alcoholic beverage by someone under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.11 GENERAL POLICY REGARDING USE OF CITY PARKS AND PARKS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Programs and activities held within tax-supported city parks or
facilities must be open and available to the general public.
   (B)   Organizations, including schools and clubs, are encouraged to use all
park facilities and properties including the natural areas consistent with the
authorized uses.
   (C)   Reserved use of parks or park facilities is prioritized by:
      (1)   City sponsored parks and recreation programs;
      (2)   Organized clubs or organizations with Park User Agreement in good
standing;
      (3)   The general public;
      (4)   Schools and charitable groups;
      (5)   The use of tax-supported facilities for personal or private profit.
   (D)   Reserved use by the following parties requires a permit:
      (1)   Organized clubs or organizations;
      (2)   Schools and charitable groups;
      (3)   Usage for personal or private profit.
   (E)   When parks facilities are not reserved in advance, they are available
to the general public on a first come, first served basis. Anyone possessing a
reservation may require those without a reservation to move out of the reserved
area or facility.
   (F)   While the City works to maintain its public parks and facilities in a
safe and clean manner, the nature of open natural areas is such that any and
all use of the City's public parks or public lands is at the individual's own
risk. The City does not offer any assurance as to the lack of any hazards which
may naturally exist or occur due to the natural contours of the land, weather,
animal activity, or human activity which remains undiscovered, undisclosed, or
unidentified. All users should report any conditions of the City parks or
public lands or facilities, including but not limited to holes, divots, or
downed trees or other debris, which may pose a hazard to a user.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.12 CATEGORIES OF USERS.
   (A)   "General" users. Whenever there are less than 25 people expected to
attend a one-time event, the users are not required to reserve the park or
facility, but they are not guaranteed the use of that park or facility, so the
use is on a "first come/first served" basis. There will be no forms to fill
out, and no administrative fee or damage deposit will be charged. However, such
users may be subject to claims for damage resulting from the use of the park or
facility, and a reserved user has the right to request a general user vacate an
area which is the subject of a valid permit.
   (B)   Reserved users. Whenever the number of attendees is anticipated to
exceed 24 individuals, a group representative must complete an application
form. Once approved, a reservation permit will issue and guarantees the use of
the facility, in the designated area, for the designated use(s). This will
require a refundable damage deposit and the payment of an administrative fee.
Proof of liability insurance may be required.
   (C)   Groups of less than 25 users may be guaranteed the use of a facility
or part of a facility or park by opting into the "Reserved User" category,
completing an application form, and paying associated costs. Proof of liability
insurance may be required.
   (D)   User agreements.
      (1)   A user agreement is required whenever an activity sponsored by a
general or reserved user is or will be scheduled to occur on more than a one-
time basis (e.g. baseball field use).
      (2)   User agreements will set forth all rights, responsibilities, and
specific duties of each party regarding the use of the park or recreation
facility.
      (3)   Where the user group has agreed to a set criteria for maintenance
and upkeep of the park or facility, fees may be waived in the agreement by the
City.
   (E)   Interlocal Agreements may be entered into for organized events
sponsored by a governmental agency (Ref. MCA 7-11-102).
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.13 PARK PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Reserved users must submit an application at least fifteen (15)
business days and no more than three (3) months before the start of the event.
   (B)   An applicant must be at least 18 years of age, and at least 21 years
of age if the application will include an open container waiver request.
   (C)   Applicants must agree that:
      (1)   The organization is solely responsible for determining whether the
site is safe and appropriate for the use prior to each use, and will notify the
City of White Sulphur Springs of any known safety hazard. Safety includes
protection of the resources as well as the participants.
      (2)   An authorized representative of the organization, who is at least
twenty-one (21) years of age, will remain on the premises for the duration of
the event.
      (3)   They may not store equipment at or on any field or premises, except
as expressly authorized by the City of White Sulphur Springs, in writing.
      (4)   They are responsible for all costs due to damages by members of
their party or organization. This includes, but is not limited to, vandalism,
damage or destruction caused by abusive use, and garbage left at the site.
These costs may be greater than the damage deposit, in which case the applicant
will be billed for any amount not covered by the damage deposit.
      (5)   Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the reservation of a City park
or park facility does not guarantee or include exclusive use of the entire
park. Users may not close public areas or extend their activities into spaces
outside of the reserved areas.
      (6)   The City of White Sulphur Springs will not be held responsible for
any personal property loss or damage to vehicles other personal property.
   (D)   An administrative fee will be charged sufficient to cover all direct
and indirect costs and expenses of processing and administering park permits,
including the costs of inspections after use.
   (E)   Reservations are final only when the application has been approved and
all applicable fees or deposits have been paid.
   (F)   Damage deposits.
      (1)   A damage deposit will be required for permitted events occurring in
City parks or facilities as per the provisions contained in this Chapter.
      (2)   Damage inspections will be completed by City staff no later than
the end of the first business day following a permitted event. The permit fee
or the damage deposit will be calculated so as to cover staff time spent
performing inspections.
      (3)   All costs due to damages by the holder of a permit or any person(s)
within their party are the responsibility of the permit holder. This includes
but is not limited to vandalism, damage or destruction caused by abusive use,
and garbage left at the site. These costs may be greater than the damage
deposit, in which case the permit holder will be billed for any amount not
covered by the damage deposit.
      (4)   The damage deposit or a pro-rata share will be refunded within ten
business days after the event depending on whether any damage occurred.
      (5)   The event sponsor shall have ten calendar days after receipt of the
notice indicating some part or all of the damage deposit was withheld in which
to submit a written notice appealing such decision to the City Council. The
appeal shall include a statement as to the basis of the appeal with supporting
documents or reasons. The City Council shall hear and rule on the appeal no
later than the second regularly scheduled meeting of the council following
filing of the notice of appeal. The hearing on the appeal shall be scheduled by
the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the filing of the notice of appeal.
      (6)   The Mayor may waive or modify damage deposits as they deem
appropriate.
   (G)   Fees and deposits shall be as set by Council by resolution.
   (H)   Applicants seeking a waiver of the insurance requirement shall
indicate this request on the application.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.14 INSURANCE.
   An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association planning the
use of a public park, or facility within a park, shall, in addition to filing
an application for use:
   (A)   Be required to provide surety for performance (including, but not
limited to: obtaining liability insurance, bonding, indemnification, or
monetary deposits) as provided within the municipal code. This requirement
shall include security or clean-up deposits as stated in the applicable
section;
   (B)   (1)   To avoid interference with protected rights of speech and
assembly, any requirement imposed for surety for performance shall be based
upon needs directly associated with the event and not on the basis of possible
disruption of the event by protestors or other persons who might be opposed to
the purpose for which the applicant seeks to use the park or facility; and
      (2)   Such restriction, however, shall not apply where the Mayor
determines an event is being scheduled which will unduly and unnecessarily
create a potential for interference with public health, safety, welfare, or
order.
   (C)   Any individual, or corporation required to provide surety in some
manner under the municipal code shall obtain commercial general liability
insurance covering the event, including, but not limited to, setup, the event
itself, and all cleanup and takedown activities. The insurance policy shall
contain no exceptions or exclusions for activities conducted under or related
to the permitted activities. The permittee shall name the City, its officers
and employees as additional insureds on a primary non-contributory basis. The
additional insured coverage shall be in a form acceptable to the City. To the
extent reasonably possible, such additional insured coverage shall be in the
minimum amounts of $750,000 per claimant and $1,500,000 per occurrence.
   (D)   The insurance requirements of this section are in addition to and
separate from any other obligations contained in this relevant section or
article or in a permit issued under this code.
   (E)   Applicants for a permit under this code shall agree in writing to
defend, hold the City and its employees and officials harmless and indemnify
the City, its employees and officials for any and all claims, lawsuits or
liability including attorney fees and costs allegedly arising out of loss,
damage or injury to a person or a person's property occurring during the course
of, in preparation of, or in any way pertaining to the event, assembly or
project which are caused by the conduct of employees or agents of the permit
holder.
   (F)   The Mayor may grant a waiver to the requirements of this provision for
City-sponsored events or when the Mayor determines the event does not present a
substantial or significant public liability or property damage exposure for the
City, its officers, agents and employees, subject to any damage deposit or bond
requirement of this chapter. The Mayor shall consider the applicant's proven
financial inability to obtain the required coverage. When the Mayor considers
requests for waivers, the Mayor shall base the decision on the factual
circumstances presented by the applicant and decide the specific request on its
merits.
   (G)   Users are not automatically exempt from the need for insurance because
they belong to the category of general user. Any user who makes use of a park
or park facility without applying for a permit may be subject to claims for
damage, including personal injury, generally covered by liability insurance.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.15 USE OF TAX-SUPPORTED FACILITIES FOR AMUSEMENT FOR GAIN OR FOR PERSONAL
OR PRIVATE PROFIT.
   (A)   No amusement for gain or for which a charge is made can be conducted
in a park or on public lands without first obtaining a permit and business
license or itinerant vendor license. Such amusement must be conducted in
accordance with any ordinance or other laws pertaining thereto.
   (B)   No party shall sell a service or product within a City park or
facility without first obtaining a permit and business license or itinerant
vendor license.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.16 VENDING IN PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, "stand" means any group
of tables, showcase, bench, rack, pushcart, wagon, or any other wheeled-vehicle
or device which may be moved without the assistance of a motor and which is not
required to be licensed and registered by the State Department of Motor
Vehicles, used for the displaying, storing, or transporting of articles offered
for sale by a vendor.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any party to sell, or offer for sale, any food,
beverages or merchandise in any City park or recreation facility without first
providing a damage deposit and obtaining a park permit and a business or
itinerant vending license as prescribed in Title 3, Chapters
2 and
3.
      (2)   Vending will only be permitted in certain public parks and
recreation facilities as determined by the Mayor or designee.
      (3)   If the event or activity involves the sale of food and/or
beverages, such sales shall comply with all rules and regulations applicable to
such sales according to the local health department or the Montana Department
of Health and Human Services.
      (4)   All vendor stands, carts, tables, or signage, etc., associated with
the display or sale of merchandise, etc., shall file with the City a copy of a
valid liability insurance policy which covers damage or injury associated with
the stand, cart, table, or signage.
      (5)   The issuance of a permit does not mean the City has assumed any
responsibility for any stand, cart, table, display, or signage associated with
a vendor within a City park or facility, and the vendor shall hold the City
harmless from any claims filed as a result of any activity associated with the
permit.
      (6)   Vendors participating in events such as the Farmer's Market shall
comply with vendor license requirements and permits issued through the
organization. Such compliance does not exempt a vendor from applicable fees,
costs, liabilities, or obligations in the event a vendor is found in non-
compliance with or in violation of any applicable requirements under this code.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   No vendor shall:
         (a)   Leave any stand unattended;
         (b)   Store, park, or leave any stand overnight in any park, facility,
or public land;
         (c)   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption unless they
have available for public use their own or a public litter receptacle which is
available for their patrons' use and follow all applicable state health code
regulations;
         (d)   Leave any location without first picking up, removing, and
disposing of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the vendor;
         (e)   Allow any items relating to the operation of the vending
business to be placed anywhere other than in, on or under the stand.
      (2)   Any vendor violating these requirements may have their permit
revoked and/or may be liable for clean-up or other costs resulting from their
violation.
   (D)   Vendor(s) may set up and maintain the use of any table, crate, cart,
rack, or any other device to increase the selling or display capacity within
the area of their stand provided their application identifies these uses and it
is approved.
   (E)   Denial, suspension, and revocation.
      (1)   The Mayor may deny any application for a permit and may suspend or
revoke the permit of any vendor for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the application for the
permit;
         (b)   Fraud or misrepresentation made in the course of carrying on the
business of vending;
         (c)   Conduct of the licensed vendor which creates a public nuisance,
or constitutes a danger to the public welfare, morals, health, and safety,
including, but not limited to, fire hazards, safety hazards and obstructions to
vision, traffic, or pedestrian movement;
         (d)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this Chapter;
         (e)   Failure to comply with all conditions of the permit.
      (2)   From the date of denial, suspension or revocation, the vendor shall
have ten calendar days in which to submit a written notice appealing such
denial, suspension, or revocation to the City Council. The City Council shall
hear and rule on the appeal no later than the second regularly scheduled
meeting of the council following filing of the notice of appeal. The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall schedule the hearing when the notice of appeal is
received.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 7.5.17 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any party to violate the rules and
regulations contained herein, and any such violations shall be reported and
acted upon by local authorities.
   (B)   Any party violating any laws in public parks or any of the rules and
regulations of the public parks may be ordered by any member of the City Public
Works Division, the Mayor or designee, or law enforcement officer to leave the
park. City personnel are authorized to make such orders and in flagrant cases
to suspend the privilege of any party to use the public parks for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
   (C)   The Mayor, upon receiving a written report stating the violation and
the basis for suspension of park privileges or upon witnessing the incident,
shall notify the suspended party, in writing, of the reasons for and length of
suspension.
   (D)   A party who has been suspended from park privileges shall have ten
calendar days from receipt of the notice (which is considered to occur three
days after mailing) in which to submit a written notice appealing such
suspension to the City Council. The notice of appeal shall detail the reason
why the suspension is challenged with any supporting documents or statements.
The City Council shall hear and rule on the appeal no later than the second
regularly scheduled meeting of the Council following the filing of the notice
of appeal. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall schedule the hearing when the notice
of appeal is received.
   (E)   In addition to the suspension of park privileges, any party violating
this Chapter is subject to
Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 7-1-2024)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
1.    WATER USE AND REGULATIONS
      
2.    WATER WELLS
      
3.    SEWER REGULATIONS
      
4.    WASTEWATER SYSTEM SERVICE CHARGES
      
5.    WASTEWATER HAULERS
      
6.    CONTRACTORS
CHAPTER 1: WATER USE AND REGULATIONS
Section
8.1.1 Purpose; statement
8.1.2 Application and fee for taps to mains
8.1.3 Size and furnishing of materials
8.1.4 Discontinuance; notice filed
8.1.5 Rates paid monthly; delinquencies
8.1.6 Stop and waste cock required
8.1.7 Location of stop boxes and cutoffs
8.1.8 Pipe required
8.1.9 Public hydrant requirements
8.1.10 City not responsible
8.1.11 Fire restrictions
8.1.12 Accessibility
8.1.13 City may make repairs
8.1.14 Contractors or builders desiring water
8.1.15 Charge for turning water on
8.1.16 Unlawful acts
8.1.17 Water rates charged to owner
8.1.18 Taps prohibited
8.1.19 Inspection authorized
8.1.20 Replacement and repair authorized
8.1.21 Persons permitted to do work
8.1.22 Monthly water rates
8.1.23 Water mains and sewer lines in special improvement district
8.1.24 Application; necessary fees
8.1.25 Amount paid credited to Special Improvement District Fund
8.1.26 Additional charge
8.1.27 Payable in installments; approval
8.1.28 Apartments, mobile homes and commercial or multiple use facilities
8.1.29 Mayor may enact regulations
8.1.30 Enactment and notification of regulations
8.1.31 Penalty
8.1.32 Entry onto premises
§ 8.1.1 PURPOSE; STATEMENT.
   The following rules and regulations are hereby established for the
management, control and protection of the City waterworks and City wastewater
system. Said rules shall be considered a part of the contract with every person
who takes water supplied by the City from the City waterworks, or is connected
to the City wastewater system, and every person taking water or using the
sewer, shall be considered as having expressed consent to be bound thereby.
(1985 Code, § 4.08.010)
§ 8.1.2 APPLICATION AND FEE FOR TAPS TO MAINS.
   (A)   Applications for the use of water, or sewer, must be made to the
office of Public Works Supervisor or the City Clerk on printed forms furnished
for that purpose.
   (B)   The application must be made by the agent or owner of the property to
be benefitted, describing the lot, block and street where water is desired, and
shall state fully all the purposes for which the water may be required; and the
applicant or their duly authorized agent, upon making the application, shall
pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer a minimum fee pursuant to a fee schedule
adopted by resolution plus the cost of a City-approved water flow meter.
   (C)   In cases where the applicant desires a larger line than three-quarters
of an inch, the applicant shall first obtain City approval of line size and
shall agree in said contract to pay to the City, upon demand, the difference in
cost to the City between the three-quarter inch line and the large line
requested by the applicant, in addition to the minimum fee set forth above by
the same fee schedule referenced above.
   (D)   No taps will be made to the mains until the applicant for whom such
connection is to be made has signed the contract mentioned herein, a plumber's
permit has been issued authorizing the plumber to lay such pipes and make such
connections as will conform to the application, and the applicant has paid all
required fees.
   (E)   Any extension of the water system (mains) at the request of a property
owner(s) or developer and not at the initiation of the City based on a capital
improvement plan approved by the City Council shall be at the expense of the
property owner(s) or developer or development making the request.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.020; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.3 SIZE AND FURNISHING OF MATERIALS.
   The City shall provide the mains saddle and corporation stop, and may
provide, at cost, the service line to the curb stop, and curb box and water
meter, in addition to the minimum fee provided for in §
8.1.2. All other materials are to be furnished by the applicant. The size and
service lines, valves, meters and other fittings, fixtures or appurtenances
necessary shall be determined by the City. If contractor provided, the curb
stop, curb stop box, meter pit, if any, and meter shall conform, in respect to
design and materials, to City standards, which may be obtained through the
Public Works Department.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.030)
§ 8.1.4 DISCONTINUANCE; NOTICE FILED.
   Should it be desired to discontinue the use of water, or if any residence or
commercial property to which City water is supplied shall be vacant for a
period of 60 days or more, written notice thereof shall be filed in the office
of the City Clerk by the property owner and all arrears paid, and rates shall
be charged until such notice is given. Within 72 hours of receipt of such
notice, the City Public Works Supervisor or designee shall shut off water
service to the residence or commercial property for which there is a fee
pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.040; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.5 RATES PAID MONTHLY; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   Water bills must be paid monthly either at the office of the City
Clerk or by electronic means such as through a bill pay service with a bank.
Payments are due on the first day of each month, or next business day, for
water services provided based on meter readings taken on or about the business
day closest to the fifteenth of each month. If a water bill is not paid by the
tenth of the month for services provided, then it becomes delinquent, and shall
result in a late charge for each month past due. Thereafter, on the fourteenth
of the month (or next business day) following a delinquency, the water shall be
turned off unless the entire outstanding balance is paid in full before the
fourteenth of the month. The City will establish and maintain a policy for
billing and notifications as to delinquent accounts and shut-off. A turn on fee
pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution shall be assessed against a
delinquent customer and this fee, as well as any unpaid amount or balance due
for water service must be paid in full before resumption of service.
   (B)   Should the occupant of the premises turn on the water, or suffer or
cause the water to be turned on, after it has been shut off at the curb stop,
it may be turned off at the main and a charge equal to that of establishing a
new service in addition to any delinquent charges shall be assessed and paid
before the resumption of water service. Further, the City may pursue redress
under the state laws pertaining to "theft of services" if water is used without
payment therefor. The landowner of the property to which service is provided is
ultimately responsible for all charges for service provided, including those
incurred by a tenant or lessee of the property. If a customer whose water has
been shut off either at the curb stop or the main requests that it be turned on
again during an evening or weekend, then any charge set forth in this section
shall be double the standard fee.
   (C)   Whether the City does or does not suspend service for any reason, the
City does not waive its right to assess the base rate and any penalty for each
month the charges remain unpaid and to seek other legal redress, including but
not limited to obtaining a lien on the property in conformity with M.C.A. Title
7, Ch. 13, Part 43. The penalty may be compounded and any collection costs
shall be assessed against the User, their heirs, agents or assigns, including
legal and attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.050; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022; Ord.
2024-5, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 8.1.6 STOP AND WASTE COCK REQUIRED.
   Every service pipe must be furnished with a stop and waste cock placed
within one foot after the pipe enters the cellar wall. Said stop must have a
handle or wrench attached to turn same and should be turned off and on at least
once a month to keep same in working order so that water can be readily shut
off and drained from pipes, and for the protection of the premises in case of
leaks.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.070)
§ 8.1.7 LOCATION OF STOP BOXES AND CUTOFFS.
   (A)   All stop boxes and cut-offs for controlling the supply of water to
consumers shall be placed within the street line in the location described by
the Public Works Department. The top of all stop boxes shall conform to the
surface of the sidewalk and shall not be covered in any manner which prevents
access by City employees.
   (B)   In the event a stop box or curb stop ceases to function or is required
to be replaced for any reason, and is within the property line of the service
property, the City will provide reasonable notice, minimum of 24 hours, to the
property owner and any resident of the need to replace the stop box or curb
stop and shall arrange for a suitable time to enter onto the property for that
purpose, unless an emergency requires immediate access to the location.
Thereafter, the replaced stop box or curb stop shall be placed within the City
right-of-way as determined by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.080; Ord. 2022-379, - -2022)
§ 8.1.8 PIPE REQUIRED.
   Consumers shall be required to use, in making connections with the City
water mains within the street lines, pipe to be approved in advance of
installation by the City.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.090)
§ 8.1.9 PUBLIC HYDRANT REQUIREMENTS.
   No private hydrants shall be located on the sidewalk or any place of easy
access to the public unless metered and then only by special permit.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.100)
§ 8.1.10 CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   The City shall not be responsible for pipes, appurtenances and fixtures
outside the area between the main and the curb stop and/or the property line,
whichever is closest to the main. All owners, at their expense, must keep
service pipes from curb stop/property line to structure being serviced and all
their apparatus, their appurtenances and fixtures in good working order and
properly protected from frost and other dangers. No claim shall be made against
the City alleging any freezing, breaking or other environmental damage to any
service pipe, water meter or other apparatus, or for accidental failure to
supply water originating between the curb stop/property line and the structure
being serviced. No reduction from the regular rates shall be made for any time
that service pipes, water meters or fixtures may be frozen.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.110; Ord. 376, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 8.1.11 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   During all alarms of fire, the use of hoses, yard fountains, hydraulic
motors, elevators and all outlets where a constant flow of water is maintained
is positively forbidden. This rule will be enforced and if violated will
subject the offender to the punishment prescribed by this code.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.120)
§ 8.1.12 ACCESSIBILITY.
   All property owners shall, when acquiring water service, ensure that the
curb stop, water meter and shut offs on both sides of the water meter are
accessible to City water personnel, and that they are maintained in a condition
that access does not endanger the health or safety of City employees. In cases
where accessibility is considered not feasible or reasonable, an external meter
pit, of appropriate design, shall be installed and maintained by the owner.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.130)
§ 8.1.13 CITY MAY MAKE REPAIRS.
   The City reserves the right at any time to shut off its mains for the
purpose of making repairs or extensions or any other purpose, and no claim
shall be made against the City by reason of the breaking of any service pipe or
service cock or from any other damage which may result from such water shut
off.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.140)
§ 8.1.14 CONTRACTORS OR BUILDERS DESIRING WATER.
   Contractors, builders or others desiring water for building purposes must
make application to the Public Works Superintendent, who will issue a permit
therefor. The amount to be paid shall be based upon the actual cost to the City
for providing water service. Contractors shall pay said fee in advance or shall
post a bond for said costs.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.150; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.15 CHARGE FOR TURNING WATER ON.
   (A)   A fee pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution shall be
charged for turning on water, except:
      (1)   In cases where water has been turned off because of a break in the
service connection or pipes;
      (2)   For a first time connection to a new residence or commercial
property in which case the fee is set forth in §
8.1.2;
      (3)   When the water has been shut off as a result of delinquency in
paying the water bill in which case the fee(s) are set forth in §
8.1.5;
      (4)   When the water was turned off at the owner’s request for a regular
seasonal absence; and
      (5)   With a City water loan in effect, the charge shall be the
established fee plus any due water loan payments.
   (B)   The owner or their authorized agent shall be present when the water is
turned on. If a customer whose water has been shut off requests that it be
turned on again during an evening or weekend, then any charge set forth in this
section shall be double the standard fee.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.160)
§ 8.1.16 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting independently or
under the direction or authority of another who is not a City employee, to use
or take water from the City water system without a license or permit, or
without authority, open, dig out, curb over or remove any fire plug, hydrant,
stop, cock, valve, valve box, water meter or any other fixture pertaining to
the City water system, or turn on or shut off water into or from any water pipe
within the City water system without the proper permit.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful to take such actions as are necessary in an
emergency to prevent damage to property or to prevent injury to another. Prompt
notice of the emergency and the actions taken shall be given to the City by the
individual taking the action.
   (C)   Any person violating this provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and punished as provided in this chapter. In addition to any penalty provided,
the person shall be ordered to pay the cost of any water used, the cost of any
repair required by the acts committed, to include the costs of personnel,
materials and the costs of any damage occasioned by such actions.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.170)
§ 8.1.17 WATER RATES CHARGED TO OWNER.
   The water rates shall be charged to the owner of the property and, if from
any cause, any sums owing therefor become delinquent, the water shall be shut
off and in no case shall it be turned on to the same property until the said
delinquencies and any turn on or other fee pursuant to a fee schedule which the
City may adopt by ordinance or resolution have been paid in full, or until a
satisfactory payment agreement has been signed and approved by the Mayor or
other designated person.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.180)
§ 8.1.18 TAPS PROHIBITED.
   No person, except an authorized employee of the Waterworks Department, shall
make any tap or connection with any main or distributing pipe of the waterworks
system.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.190)
§ 8.1.19 INSPECTION AUTHORIZED.
   The Public Works Supervisor or other authorized officer or employee of the
City shall be permitted to enter the premises or buildings of consumers at any
reasonable time, upon 48 hours' notice, to examine the water pipes, water
meters and fixtures and the manner in which the water is used, except that the
provisions concerning time and notice are waived in the event of an emergency.
Failure of a property owner to allow entry of authorized personnel for purposes
of inspection shall subject the owner to immediate shut off of services and
shall be assessed corresponding fees and costs.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.200; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.20 REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR AUTHORIZED.
   The Public Works Supervisor or other officer or employee of the Public Works
Department shall be permitted to enter the premises or buildings of consumers
at any reasonable time, upon 48 hours' notice, to repair or replace the City
water meters, except that the provisions concerning time and notice are waived
in the event of an emergency. Failure of a property owner to allow entry of
authorized personnel for purposes of effecting replacement or repair of City
fixtures shall subject the owner to immediate shut off of services and shall be
assessed corresponding fees and costs.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.205; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.21 PERSONS PERMITTED TO DO WORK.
   No person except a regularly licensed plumber will be permitted to do any
work on any pipes or connection made with the mains of water supply of the City
waterworks. Plumbers failing to perform their work according to the established
rules and regulations therefor or executing it unskillfully or to the detriment
of the waterworks may be disqualified from making connections with the City
mains. The City, in its discretion, may appoint or authorize other qualified
persons to install meters in the water system.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.210)
§ 8.1.22 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   Water rates will be charged at the rates established from time to time and
on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.220)
§ 8.1.23 WATER MAINS AND SEWER LINES IN SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   All persons or property owners residing without the limits of any special
improvement district heretofore created, or which may be hereafter created, for
the installation of water mains or sewer lines, who shall desire to connect
their property or improvements with the water mains or sewer lines existing in
said special improvement district shall make application to the City Clerk for
permission to do so.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.230)
§ 8.1.24 APPLICATION; NECESSARY FEES.
   (A)   The application for permission to make such connection shall require
the applicant to pay to the City the necessary fees therefor, which shall be
determined by the City Clerk, who shall figure the area of the property owned
by the applicant and use the assessment levied against the property of said
special improvement district to which connection is desired upon the same basis
as used to assess property within the district at the time of its creation, and
this amount must be paid at the time of such application.
   (B)   The application for a connection shall include the number of meters
needed. Such meters shall be provided for installation and shall be deemed
active 30 days after delivery and minimum fees shall be charged thereafter,
whether or not a request for the water to be turned on has been made. If
delivery of the meters is to be staggered, as in the case of a subdivision or
other multiple-dwelling installation, the request in the application shall so
state and delivery shall be coordinated with the City Clerk or the Public Works
Supervisor.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.240; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.25 AMOUNT PAID CREDITED TO SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FUND.
   In the event that the permit shall be issued by the City Clerk, the amount
paid shall be credited to the Special Improvement District Fund to which the
connection is to be made until all indebtedness of such district shall have
been paid and thereafter all such amounts shall be credited to the General
Fund.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.250)
§ 8.1.26 ADDITIONAL CHARGE.
   (A)   The amount above set forth shall be in addition to all existing
charges assessed by the City for connection to the lines or mains as required
by existing laws now in effect.
   (B)   In the event the City finds it necessary to seek a court order to
enter any property for purposes of removing or replacing a City water meter
under §§
8.1.19 or
8.1.20, the City may seek any costs, including attorney fees, allowed and may
assess those costs as part of the property owner’s water bill. Such costs shall
incur interest as any other cost charged.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.260)
§ 8.1.27 PAYABLE IN INSTALLMENTS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any property owner, whether the property be within or without a
special improvement district, may apply to make connections as aforesaid, and
in case the property shall be subject to special taxes levied against it by the
City, and the owner shall desire to pay such special taxes and the sum required
to make connections as aforesaid in installments, the owner shall submit to the
Council for approval an application to do so. Upon approval by the Council of
such application, a contract in writing shall be made, fixing the amount to be
paid, amounts of installments, dates of payment, rate of interest upon deferred
payments and manner of payment of interest to be signed by the owner and the
Mayor or authorized representative. No such contract shall extend the time for
payment over a period in excess of ten years. Upon its execution, such contract
shall be submitted to the Council for consent and shall constitute a lien upon
the real property therein described until paid.
   (B)   Payments for other amounts owed for water or sewer may be negotiated
with the Mayor and submitted to the Council for consent, and shall constitute a
lien upon the real property therein described until paid.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.270)
§ 8.1.28 APARTMENTS, MOBILE HOMES AND COMMERCIAL OR MULTIPLE USE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each individual dwelling unit and each commercial or multiple use
facility connected with City sewer and water shall have an appropriate water
meter and service lines and shall conform in all respects to the ordinances
established for other residence or similar commercial facilities.
   (B)   Existing mobile home parks shall, as each lot or park owned mobile
home becomes vacant, refit the lot utilities (water and sewer) to the current
standards and shall not re-let said lot or home until such refit is complete.
The landowner of the property to which service is provided is ultimately
responsible for all charges for services provided, including those incurred by
a tenant or lessee of the property.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.280)
§ 8.1.29 MAYOR MAY ENACT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor or the Public Works Supervisor shall have the power to enact
seasonal regulations or restrictions on the amount or purpose of water use by
Municipal Water Users. This power shall include, but is not limited to,
restrictions on time, place or amount of water use for lawn or other
irrigation. The City Clerk shall be notified immediately of the enactment of
any such regulations and/or restrictions.
   (B)   Upon enacting such regulations or restrictions, the City Clerk shall
cause the posting of such regulations or restrictions in the same manner as is
provided for posting of special meetings. Additionally, such postings shall be
made on-line at the City website and may be included in the water bills, space
permitting. When such regulations or restrictions are lifted or expire, the
postings shall be removed from the City website, the water bills and such other
locations as may be found.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.290; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.1.30 ENACTMENT AND NOTIFICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor may enact regulations or restrictions on water use, when necessary
for the public health, safety or welfare, without the approval of the City
Council and without the prior holding of a public hearing. The Mayor shall
direct the City Clerk to cause the posting of such regulations or restrictions
in the same manner as is provided for posting of special meetings.
Additionally, such postings shall be made on-line at the City website. When
such regulations or restrictions are lifted or expire, the postings shall be
removed from the City website and such other locations as may be found.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.300)
§ 8.1.31 PENALTY.
   A person violating any watering regulation or restriction enacted by the
Mayor under §§
8.1.29 and
8.1.30 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon a first conviction shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $100. Upon a second or subsequent conviction, a person
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $250. Any
violations of any other provisions under this chapter shall be fined an amount
not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned not to exceed six months, or both.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.08.310)
§ 8.1.32 ENTRY ONTO PREMISES.
   The Public Works Supervisor or other officer or employee of the Public Works
Department shall be permitted to enter the premises or buildings of consumers
attached to the City water system at any reasonable time, upon 48 hours'
notice, to examine, repair or replace the water meters as indicated in the
notice, and examine the manner in which the water or meter is used, except that
the provisions concerning time and notice are waived in the event of an
emergency.
(Res. 600, passed 1-7-2019; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
CHAPTER 2: WATER WELLS
Section
8.2.1 Definitions
8.2.2 Application, investigation and permit
8.2.3 Responsibility for permit
8.2.4 Permit fee
8.2.5 Withdrawal of permit
8.2.6 Review
8.2.7 Appeal
8.2.8 Control valves
8.2.9 Marking and inspection
8.2.10 Cross-connections
8.2.11 Penalty
§ 8.2.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A physical arrangement whereby a public water supply
system is connected with another water supply system, either public or private,
or with any wastewater or sewer line, in such a manner that a flow of water
into the public water supply system from such other source of water, waste or
sewage is possible.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or body politic, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or other similar representative thereof.
   WATER WELL or WELL. Any digging, drilling or excavation, by hand or by the
use of machinery or equipment, whereby water is obtained from under the surface
of the ground to be used on or above the ground surface for any purpose.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.010)
§ 8.2.2 APPLICATION, INVESTIGATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to drill, dig or excavate for a water well within
the corporate limits of the City must first apply to the Public Works
Department for a permit therefor and must advise the City of the exact location
of the proposed water well.
   (B)   The application for such permit must contain:
      (1)   A description of the purpose for the proposed well, such as
domestic, lawn and garden, commercial, industrial or other use; and
      (2)   A statement of whether the municipal water system is currently
serving or available to the property where the well is proposed.
   (C)   If granted, the well permit shall contain the following:
      (1)   This authorization to construct a water well has been granted
pursuant to
Title 4 of the City code, and is subject to the conditions within this permit
and any conditions imposed by the Montana Department of Natural Resources and
Conservation (DNRC), the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ),
Meagher County, any other government agency or entity with jurisdiction, and
any other applicable law;
      (2)   The applicant specifically agrees to be bound by the following
condition:
         (a)   The applicant agrees this well and associated water right will
be made available as needed upon the written consent of the water well
applicant, to the City of White Sulphur Springs if necessary for mitigation,
permitting and/or change authorizations related to future expansion or upgrade
of the City of White Sulphur Springs municipal water supply system, which may
include curtailment or retirement of this well; and
         (b)   This is not a water right, certificate or permit authorizing the
withdrawal, diversion or right to pump and use water. Applicants must complete
necessary water right notices, forms and/or permitting procedures with DNRC by
contacting the appropriate DNRC office, currently located at 613 NE Main St. E,
Lewistown, MT 59457, phone (406) 538-7459, http://dnrc.mt.gov/divisions/water/
water-rights/water-right-forms.
      (3)   A plan whereby a reduced pressure backflow preventer will be
installed on the applicant's distribution line;
      (4)   An agreement by the permittee that a water sample will be submitted
to the Environmental Laboratory of the Montana Department of Public Health and
Human Services, or a laboratory approved by them, for the purpose of
determining the potability of the water, and pay any applicable fee to the
State of Montana for the test; and if the water is certified as not potable by
the State Department of Health and Environmental Sciences, the permittee must
post a sign at the well indicating that the water is not potable;
      (5)   An agreement by the permittee that an annual water sample be
submitted to the Environmental Laboratory of the Montana Department of Public
Health and Human Services and that the permittee (or owner) pay any applicable
fee to the State of Montana for the test;
      (6)   The permittee must submit to an inspection of the well by the
Public Works Supervisor or other City employee at any reasonable time, upon
prior notice, except that the provisions concerning time and notice are waived
in the event of an emergency. Such inspection may include an inspection to
determine whether the well is being used in accordance with the terms of the
permit issued; and
      (7)   Before it is put into operation, the Public Works Supervisor or
designee will inspect the well to determine that the backflow preventer has
been properly installed.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.020; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.3 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PERMIT.
   The permit required by this chapter must be obtained by either the person
who is actually drilling the well or by the landowner on whose land the well is
to be drilled. Both the landowner and the well driller are subject to the
penalty set forth in this chapter for failure to obtain the required permit.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.030)
§ 8.2.4 PERMIT FEE.
   A fee pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution shall be paid by the
applicant upon submission of the application and plans prior to the Public
Works Supervisor's review.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.040; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.5 WITHDRAWAL OF PERMIT.
   In the event the Public Works Supervisor determines the requirements of the
chapter or the original plans are not being met, a notice shall be sent to the
applicant/permittee and the owner of the property advising the permit is out of
compliance and subject to withdrawal. The reasons for determining non-
compliance shall be outlined in the notice. The notice may originate from the
Public Works Supervisor or the City Clerk. The applicant/permittee and the
owner shall have 30 days to remedy the non-compliance, unless extended by the
Public Works Supervisor. If the non-compliance is not remedied at the
conclusion of the 30 days, then the permit is deemed withdrawn and the well
must be disabled. If the applicant/permittee and/or the owner have not disabled
the well and the City has to come on the property, the applicant/permittee and
the owner shall pay the costs of rendering the well disabled.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.041; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.6 REVIEW.
   The Public Works Supervisor shall review the application and attached plans
to determine if the plans submitted conforms to the requirements of this
chapter. Any refusal of the Public Works Supervisor to grant approval of any
application or to issue a permit for a water well is subject to review by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.050; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.7 APPEAL.
   In the event the Public Works Supervisor denies or refuses to grant approval
of the application for a well permit, the applicant may submit the matter to
the City Council for review by filing a written request with the Clerk. The
matter shall be scheduled for the next regular meeting of the City Council. As
part of the written request, the applicant shall state the basis for the need
for a water well permit. An appeal fee shall be paid at the time of filing
pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.051; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.8 CONTROL VALVES.
   Any water well drilled, dug or excavated pursuant to a permit granted under
this chapter must be equipped with adequate shut-off valves or control valves
for the purpose of controlling the flow of water from the water well and for
the protection of the City water system in the event of pollution or other
hazards. Any backflow preventer must meet the requirements set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.060)
§ 8.2.9 MARKING AND INSPECTION.
   The issuance of a water well permit may be conditioned on marking the water
well in a manner to be designated by the Public Works Supervisor for the
purposes of identification or location, or for inspection at such times as may
be reasonably required. All water wells within the City may be inspected by the
Public Works Supervisor or other City employee at any reasonable time, upon
prior notice, except that the provisions concerning time and notice are waived
in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.070; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.10 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   No water well may be maintained within the City which has any cross-
connection with the public water supply system unless equipped with a reduced
pressure backflow preventer which is in conformity with the requirements of
this chapter. Such cross-connection shall be registered with the Public Works
Supervisor. Failure to register shall constitute a violation of this provision.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.080; Ord. 2023-2,
passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.2.11 PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter except §
8.2.10 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 and or a term of
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both. A violation of §
8.2.10 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 for a first offense and
not less than $50 or more than $250 for a second or subsequent offense. Each
day in which a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-4-2018; Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.10.090)
CHAPTER 3: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
8.3.1 Definitions
8.3.2 Use of public sewers required
8.3.3 Private wastewater disposal
8.3.4 Sanitary sewers, building sewers and connections
8.3.5 Use of public sewers
8.3.6 Wastes prohibited from being discharged to the wastewater treatment
system
8.3.7 Prohibition of clear water connections
8.3.8 Proper design and construction of new sewers and connections
8.3.9 Damage or tampering of wastewater facilities prohibited
8.3.10 Powers and authority of inspectors
8.3.11 Penalties
§ 8.3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside walls of the buildings and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called the HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CITY. The City of White Sulphur Springs, Montana.
   COMBINED SEWER. Sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trades or
businesses as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   MAY. Permissive.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution. Neutral
water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion concentration of
IQ~7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by the governmental agency or public
utility.
   PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR. The supervisor of the public works (streets, water,
wastewater and other services) of the City, or an authorized deputy, agent or
representative; and refers to the head of the Public Works Department or the
authorized representative of the City designated by the Mayor.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER is a drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
testing wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.010; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.2 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, mobile home parks or courts, or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to submit plans to
install suitable plumbing facilities therein for each commercial or multiple
use facility and for individual dwelling unit(s) and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 60 days of written notice by the Public Works Supervisor and
shall have 120 days to complete unless an extension of not more than six months
is granted by the Public Works Supervisor or greater extension is granted by
the City Council; provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of the
property line.
   (E)   The installation of a connection to the public sewer shall be subject
to the same requirements for application as the connection to the water system,
and the charge for a tap to the main shall be pursuant to a fee schedule
adopted by resolution. All fees shall be paid at the time of installation
unless a payment agreement is authorized by the Mayor as provided in this
title.
   (F)   Any extension of the public sewer at the request of a property owner
(s) or developer and not at the initiation of the City based on a capital
improvement plan approved by the City Council shall be at the expense of the
property owner(s) or developer or development making the request.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.020; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.3 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary and combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
8.3.2(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Public
Works Supervisor. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by the Public Works
Supervisor. A permit and inspection fee as set by City Council pursuant to a
fee schedule adopted by resolution shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time
the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the proper
authority or County Sanitarian. The proper authority or County Sanitarian shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the proper authority or County
Sanitarian when the work is ready for the final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of receipt of the notification by the proper authority or County Sanitarian or
as soon thereafter as may be.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations or requirements of the
Department of Public Health and Human Services of the State of Montana. No
permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
2,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
8.3.2(D), the property owner shall submit plans for connection to the public
sewer and disconnection from the private system within 60 days of written
notice by the Public Works Supervisor and shall have 120 days to complete
unless an extension not to exceed six months is granted by the Public Works
Supervisor or a greater extension is granted by the City Council in compliance
with this chapter.
      (1)   A connection plan inspection fee shall be charged pursuant to a fee
schedule adopted by resolution. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
suitable material. Such actions in compliance with this section shall be at the
property owner's expense.
      (2)   This section shall be suspended in situations where there is
evidence the connection is physically or economically impractical (as defined
in the Administrative Rules of the State of Montana) to the City or the
property owner until such time as the property owner and the Public Works
Supervisor and/or the Mayor can arrive at a solution to the issue which is
financially feasible to all parties.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the City.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Officer.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.020.030; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.4 SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, connect with or open, use, alter
or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the Public Works Supervisor.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial; and
         (c)   Industrial.
      (2)   In any case, the owner or their agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the City. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Public Works Supervisor. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the City Clerk pursuant to a fee schedule
adopted by resolution by the City Council at the time the application is filed.
Any application which is returned for additional information may be subject to
a resubmission fee pursuant to the same fee schedule.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; exceptions shall be considered on a case-by-case basis by the Mayor
or other official; but the City does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single connection or
failure of said connection.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and testing by the Public Works Supervisor,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. In the absence of suitable code
provisions, the appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9, or current edition, shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff, or groundwater to building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.
9, or current edition. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the Public Works Supervisor before
installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public
Works Supervisor when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Public Works Supervisor or their representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.040; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.5 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited
areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Public Works Supervisor.
   (B)   Storm water, other than that exempted under division (A) above, and
all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Public Works Supervisor and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the Public Works Supervisor, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or
natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injury or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in, or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, or
personal hygiene products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharge to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limbs, public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (1)   The Public Works Supervisor may set limitations lower than the
limitations established in the regulations below if, in the Public Works
Supervisor's opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming this opinion as to the acceptability, the Public
Works Supervisor will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewer, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
      (2)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Public Works Supervisor are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil
origin;
         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils,
fats or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
8.3.1). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Public Works Supervisor for such materials;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Supervisor
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (g)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined herein;
         (h)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
         (i)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the Public Works Supervisor may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Public
Works Supervisor may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the Public Works
Supervisor shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative
on the discharger.
      (3)   If the Public Works Supervisor permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works
Supervisor.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Supervisor, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as
specified in division (D)(2)(c) above, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Public Works Supervisor, and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal, which are subject to
review by the Public Works Supervisor. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operations by the owner at their expense.
   (H)   When required by the Public Works Supervisor, the owner of any
property serviced by the building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurements of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Public Works Supervisor. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at their expense and shall be maintained by them so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (I)   The Public Works Supervisor may require a user of sewer services to
provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers on the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, time, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Public Works
Supervisor.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the City for treatment.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.050; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.6 WASTES PROHIBITED FROM BEING DISCHARGED TO THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT
SYSTEM.
   The discharge of any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes,
to contaminate the sludge of any municipal systems, or to injure or interfere
with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals,
create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on
the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.060)
§ 8.3.7 PROHIBITION OF CLEAR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.070)
§ 8.3.8 PROPER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary sewers
and sewer connections, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the City and the State of Montana. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9, or current edition, shall apply.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.080)
§ 8.3.9 DAMAGE OR TAMPERING OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any
person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to immediate
arrest under a charge of damaging or tampering with a wastewater facility.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.090)
§ 8.3.10 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Public Works Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the
City, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Public Works Supervisor or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered proprietary. The
industry may establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Public Works Supervisor or duly authorized employees
of the City shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless and the City
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by the City
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury, death
or property damage asserted against the company growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation which may be the result of any negligence arising from the
City or City employee in the performance of such work.
   (D)   The Public Works Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the
City, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any,
on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.100; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.3.11 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
8.3.9, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The offender may be subject to a
civil penalty of up to $300.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment for up to six months, or both, for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of §
8.3.9 shall be fined in an amount not less than $250 or more than $500, or
imprisoned for up to six months, or both.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of such violation. Failure to pay an assessment under this part may result in
the filing of a lien upon the property and the accrual of simple interest of
10% per annum until paid.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.02.110)
CHAPTER 4: WASTEWATER SYSTEM SERVICE CHARGES
Section
8.4.1 Purpose
8.4.2 Determining total annual costs of operation and maintenance
8.4.3 Determining each user’s Wastewater Contribution Percentage
8.4.4 Determining surcharge system for users with excess BOD and SS
8.4.5 Determining each user’s wastewater service charge
8.4.6 Payment of user’s wastewater service charge and penalties
8.4.7 Review of each user’s wastewater service charge
8.4.8 Notification
§ 8.4.1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to generate sufficient revenue to pay all
costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater system. The
costs shall be distributed to all users of the wastewater system in proportion
to each user’s contribution to the total loading of the treatment works.
Factors such as strength (BOD and SS), volume and delivery flow rate
characteristics shall be considered and included as the basis for the user’s
contribution to ensure a proportional distribution of operation and maintenance
costs to each user class.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.010)
§ 8.4.2 DETERMINING TOTAL ANNUAL COSTS OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The City or its City Engineer shall determine the total annual costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual
cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to:
labor; repairs; equipment replacement; maintenance; necessary modifications;
power; sampling; laboratory tests; and reasonable contingency fund.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.020)
§ 8.4.3 DETERMINING EACH USER’S WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   The City or its City Engineer shall determine each user’s average
daily volume of wastewater, which has been discharged to the wastewater system,
which shall then be divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater
discharged to the wastewater system, to determine each user’s Volume
Contribution Percentage. The amount used as the total average daily volume of
wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow. The City or its City Engineer
shall determine each user’s average daily poundage of five-day 20°C biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), which has been discharged to the wastewater system, which
shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of all five-day BOD
discharged to the wastewater system to determine each user’s BOD Contribution
Percentage.
   (B)   The City or its Engineer shall determine each user’s average suspended
solids (SS) poundage which has been discharged to the wastewater system which
shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of all suspended solids
discharged to the wastewater system to determine the user’s Suspended Solids
Percentage. Each user’s Volume Contribution Percentage, BOD Contribution
Percentage and Suspended Solids Contribution Percentage shall be multiplied by
the annual operation and maintenance costs for wastewater treatment of the
total volume flow of the total five-day 20°C BOD and of the suspended solids,
respectively.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.030)
§ 8.4.4 DETERMINING SURCHARGE SYSTEM FOR USERS WITH EXCESS BOD AND SS.
   The City or its City Engineer will determine the average suspended solids
(SS) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily loadings for the average
residential user. The City or its City Engineer will assess a surcharge rate
for all nonresidential users discharging wastes with BOD and SS strengths
greater than the average residential user. Such users will be assessed a
surcharge sufficient to cover the costs of treating such users’ above-normal
strength wastes. Normal strength wastes are considered to be P.P.M. BOD and
P.P.M. SS. The surcharge rate structure for such above-normal strength waste
dischargers is as shown on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.040)
§ 8.4.5 DETERMINING EACH USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   Each nonresidential user’s wastewater treatment cost contributions as
determined in §§
8.4.3 and
8.4.4 shall be added together to determine such user’s annual wastewater
service charges. Residential users may be considered to be one class of user
and an equitable service charge may be determined for each user based upon an
estimate of the total wastewater contribution of this class of user. The
governing body may classify industrial, commercial and other nonresidential
establishments as a residential user; provided that the wastes from these
establishments are equivalent to the wastes from the average residential user
with respect to volume, suspended solids and BOD. Each user’s wastewater
treatment cost contribution will be assessed in accordance with the rate
schedule on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.050)
§ 8.4.6 PAYMENT OF USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The City shall submit an annual statement to the user for the user's
annual wastewater service charge or one-twelfth of the user's annual wastewater
service charge may be included with the monthly water and/or wastewater utility
billing. The City shall add a penalty of 3% per month if the payment is not
received by the City within 15 days. Should any user fail to pay the user
wastewater service charge and penalty within three months of the due date, the
City may stop the wastewater service to the property. If the City does not
suspend service, the City does not waive its right to assess the service charge
and penalty for each month the service charge remains unpaid and to seek other
legal redress, including but not limited to obtaining a lien on the property in
conformity with M.C.A. Title 7, Ch. 13, Part 43. The penalty may be compounded
and any collection costs shall be assessed against the user, their heirs,
agents or assigns, including legal and attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.060; Ord. 2022-379, passed - -2022)
§ 8.4.7 REVIEW OF EACH USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The City shall review the total annual cost of operation and maintenance as
well as each user’s Wastewater Contribution Percentage not less often than
every two years and will revise the system as necessary to assure equity of the
service charge system established herein and to assure that sufficient funds
are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works.
If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change that user’s Wastewater Contribution
Percentage, the user can may present, at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
governing body, such factual information for consideration and the City shall
then determine if the user’s Wastewater Contribution Percentage is to be
changed. The City shall notify the user of its findings as soon as possible
following the presentation, but is not required to make the determination at
the same Council meeting.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.070)
§ 8.4.8 NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.06.080)
CHAPTER 5: WASTEWATER HAULERS
Section
8.5.1 Wastewater license required
8.5.2 Vehicle must be capable of hauling wastewater
8.5.3 Authorized deposit of wastewater loads at the City wastewater treatment
plant
8.5.4 Prohibited wastewater discharges
8.5.5 Wastewater hauler to identify source and content of wastewater
8.5.6 Authority to require laboratory analysis of wastewater prior to discharge
8.5.7 Wastewater discharge equipment
8.5.8 Wastewater hauler discharge fee prior to any wastewater discharge
8.5.9 Wastewater hauler liability insurance
8.5.10 Authorization to accept nondomestic industrial waste in special
exceptional circumstances
8.5.11 Violation; penalty
§ 8.5.1 WASTEWATER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person or entity shall engage in or conduct the business of wastewater
hauling within the City for septic tank waste, carwash holding tanks, wastes
collected from print shops, laundries, dry cleaners or by the use of oil/sand
interceptors at automotive shops and other facilities generating wastewater
within the jurisdictional limits of the City of White Sulphur Springs without
an annual City business license issued by the City Clerk’s office as provided
in Title 3 of this code, pursuant to license application forms provided by the
City Clerk’s office in consultation with the wastewater division of the City
Public Works Department. The fee for this application and license shall be
pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.010)
§ 8.5.2 VEHICLE MUST BE CAPABLE OF HAULING WASTEWATER.
   No person or entity shall be allowed to utilize City streets or alleys or
transport wastewater loads to City wastewater treatment facilities without
first having furnished the Public Works Supervisor of the City's wastewater
treatment facility or the Public Works Supervisor's designee with satisfactory
evidence that the vehicle to be utilized for hauling wastewater is
satisfactorily capable of both hauling and unloading wastewater without
leakage, spills or other public health concerns about transportation of
wastewater in the vehicle.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.020; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.5.3 AUTHORIZED DEPOSIT OF WASTEWATER LOADS AT THE CITY WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT.
   (A)   Any discharge or deposit of a wastewater load for treatment by the
City wastewater treatment facility must be authorized by personnel of the City
wastewater treatment plant prior to discharge and must be performed pursuant to
the procedures and controls established by the City wastewater treatment
facility administration.
   (B)   The City wastewater treatment facility is not required to accept
wastewater loads and the wastewater treatment facility has the authority to
decline to accept wastewater loads if the City determines that the wastewater
treatment facility is not able to adequately or properly treat the wastes or
the wastewater load contains toxic or hazardous waste materials or substances,
any other item that is potentially dangerous or potentially could adversely
affect or be detrimental to the operation of the City wastewater treatment
facility. The City wastewater treatment facility controls, with respect to
wastewater hauler loads brought to a City wastewater treatment facility, may
include, but are not limited to, controls such as limiting the day of delivery,
time of day, source of the wastewater, content of the wastewater and number and
size of wastewater loads a hauler may discharge at the City facility in a
specific time period.
   (C)   The City wastewater treatment facility may refuse or decline to accept
wastewater from any wastewater hauler it determines to have been or is
operating in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.030)
§ 8.5.4 PROHIBITED WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   No person or entity hauling wastewater shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any wastewater described as follows:
   (A)   Pollutants that will create a fire or explosion hazard;
   (B)   Pollutants that will cause corrosive structural damage, but in no case
discharges with a pH lower than 5.0;
   (C)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts that will cause obstruction to
flow except in the case of carwash facility pumpings with sand for which the
City has room to deposit the discharge in wastewater treatment facility drying
beds;
   (D)   Oxygen demanding pollutants discharged at a concentration that will
cause interference with City wastewater treatment facility operations;
   (E)   Heat in amounts that will inhibit biological activity; in no case
should discharge cause wastewater treatment facility effluent to fluctuate more
than plus or minus 5°F;
   (F)   Any other type of waste that may be untreatable by the wastewater
treatment facility, or will interfere with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facility; or
   (G)   Any wastewater that is not capable of being treated in accordance with
federal, state or local pretreatment regulations, or as otherwise prohibited by
law.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.040)
§ 8.5.5 WASTEWATER HAULER TO IDENTIFY SOURCE AND CONTENT OF WASTEWATER.
   No person or entity transporting wastewater to the City wastewater treatment
facility shall be allowed to discharge wastewater into the municipal sanitary
sewer system or the City wastewater treatment facility without first
identifying the source of the wastewater as well as the contents of the
wastewater and receive permission to discharge prior to actually discharging
wastewater. The City may require that a wastewater hauler certify that the
sources of wastewater being transported are regulated by federal, state or City
wastewater pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.050)
§ 8.5.6 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE LABORATORY ANALYSIS OF WASTEWATER PRIOR TO
DISCHARGE.
   Prior to granting wastewater discharge approval for a specific wastewater
discharge, the Public Works Supervisor of the City's wastewater treatment
facility or the Public Works Supervisor designee is empowered to require
wastewater haulers to provide a laboratory analysis of the wastewater, which
laboratory analysis shall be performed by a laboratory independent of the
source of the wastewater and independent of the wastewater hauler, which
laboratory must be acceptable to the Public Works Supervisor of the City's
wastewater treatment facility. The cost of any laboratory analysis requested
pursuant to this section shall be paid for by either the generator of the
wastewater or the wastewater hauler. The City's wastewater treatment facility
staff may also take samples for laboratory test purposes either before or after
the wastewater is discharged.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.060; Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.5.7 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE EQUIPMENT.
   Any necessary equipment, mechanical devices, tube, pipe or hose connections
required to unload or discharge a load of wastewater at the City wastewater
facility shall be provided by the waste hauler. Each wastewater hauler must
maintain the discharge unloading equipment and facilities in a clean, safe
condition or else be prohibited from discharging wastewater at the City
wastewater treatment facility.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.070)
§ 8.5.8 WASTEWATER HAULER DISCHARGE FEE PRIOR TO ANY WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   Any wastewater hauler desiring to discharge wastewater at the City
wastewater treatment facility shall pay a wastewater discharge fee for a
domestic wastewater discharge pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.080)
§ 8.5.9 WASTEWATER HAULER LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   A wastewater hauler shall have liability insurance for their vehicle
and business operation in an amount to be set pursuant to a fee schedule
adopted by resolution.
   (B)   A wastewater hauler shall present proof of the existence of the
required liability insurance to the City Clerk prior to the City Clerk issuing
an annual business license.
   (C)   A wastewater hauler who does not annually provide proof of insurance
pursuant to this provision, or upon written request shall have their license
rescinded until such time as the required proof is submitted and verified.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.090)
§ 8.5.10 AUTHORIZATION TO ACCEPT NONDOMESTIC INDUSTRIAL WASTE IN SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   The Public Works Supervisor or designee may, in special exceptional
circumstances in the general public interest, authorize acceptance of
nondomestic waste if the Public Works Supervisor finds that:
      (1)   The industrial user is located in an area where proper treatment of
its generated waste is not available or economically feasible;
      (2)   Acceptance of the nondomestic waste is determined to be the best
alternative to minimize or prevent an adverse impact on the surface or
groundwater in the area; or
      (3)   A situation arises where a one-time acceptance is needed in order
to provide an adequate alternative for treatment of a nondomestic waste.
   (B)   Acceptance of such nondomestic waste must comply with all federal,
state and local pretreatment regulations and any guidelines set forth by the
wastewater treatment facility.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.100; Ord. 2023-22, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 8.5.11 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   The penalty for a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a fine
up to $500 or imprisonment up to six months or both for each offense. The City
Council may also revoke a wastewater hauler’s annual City business license upon
conviction.
(Ord. 369, passed 4-1-2018, § 4.12.110)
CHAPTER 6: CONTRACTORS
Section
8.6.1 Adherence to standards
§ 8.6.1 ADHERENCE TO STANDARDS.
   Any property owner or contractor installing any water or sewer facilities
within the City to be connected to the City’s water or sewer infrastructure
shall adhere to the standards and specifications attached to the resolution set
out herein, which by this reference are fully incorporated herein.
(Res. 549, passed 6-4-2012)
TITLE 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.    BUILDING REGULATIONS AND PERMITS
      
2.    FIRE CODE
      
3.    FIRE LIMITS
      
4.    SPECIAL IMPROVEMENTS
      
5.    DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
      
6.    PLANNING
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING REGULATIONS AND PERMITS
Section
Land Use Permits
9.1.1 Applications
9.1.2 Disposition and acceptance of application
9.1.3 Fees and penalty
9.1.4 Beacon lights required on certain structures
Building Setback Distances
9.1.15 Definitions
9.1.16 Regulations
LAND USE PERMITS
§ 9.1.1 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person being the owner in fee simple of real property located
within the City and subject to assessment for a payment of City taxes who
desires to make an improvement thereto with the addition of a permanent or
temporary physical structure, or modification of an existing structure
involving a change in the footprint of the structure or resulting in a material
change to the structure located thereon shall file in the office of the City
Clerk an application in writing for a land use permit stating as follows:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant or applicants if more than one owner
in fee simple of the real property upon which improvements in the form of
structures are to be made. Applicants not the titled owner of the property must
have the titled owner’s signature granting permission to submit the application
and construct or install the improvement;
      (2)   A description of the property by lot and block location within the
City limits;
      (3)   Whether any liens or encumbrances are on the title of the subject
real property;
      (4)   The nature and extent of the proposed improvement, the exact
location upon the property where the improvement is to be placed or made, the
time construction is to commence, the estimated time when construction is to be
completed and a detailed drawing;
      (5)   At the time of submitting the application, all surveyed corner pins
of the applicant’s property must have been marked with a visible flag or stake
above ground or be otherwise identifiable upon examination by a member
examination by a member of the City crew. If a member of the City crew assigned
to review the application cannot locate and verify the corner pins upon visual
examination or with the aid of basic tools available, the application may be
rejected until the corner pins have been satisfactorily marked by the applicant
and/or the landowner. A copy of the most recent survey shall accompany the
application or a new survey may be obtained at the applicant or owner’s expense
prior to granting the application; and
      (6)   No application will be processed or granted until all of the
information required by this section has been submitted to the City Clerk.   
   (B)   An application is required for material changes but not work amounting
to maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance is non-structural routine work, such as, but not
limited to, painting, re-siding, cleaning, insulation or related work not
requiring a state building permit or review and which does not alter the
existing physical structure or increase the footprint.
      (2)   Material change is any structural addition, alteration or
replacement of an existing structure, including, but not limited to, alteration
of the existing footprint of the structure, rebuilding of more than 40% of the
existing structure, or any other alteration which converts the usage of the
structure or which affects City property or City infrastructure. Installation
of a fence is considered a material change. Demolition is considered a material
change.
      (3)   Material changes to a structure previously issued a variance due to
an encroachment on City property or infrastructure, or to a structure which was
previously considered grandfathered in despite the existence of an
encroachment, shall result in removal of the encroachment by the owner or
applicant at the owner’s or applicant’s expense. Applications may seek a
variance and the City Council is not obligated to issue a variance under this
part.
   (C)   The application for a land use permit is separate and distinct from
any requirement for compliance with state building codes. The City does not
inspect for compliance with state building codes nor does it review for
compliance with state building codes. Any application under this part is
subject to any requirements imposed by M.C.A. Title 50, as applicable to the
particular project. Applicants are encouraged to supply any issued building
permits for consideration with their project. (Ord. 358, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 9.1.2 DISPOSITION AND ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each application for a land use permit shall be reviewed by a member
of the City crew as assigned. Applications which require a variance, or for
other reasons as deemed appropriate by the assigned City employee, may be
referred to the City Council and placed on the agenda at the next regular
meeting following receipt of the application and application fee, or at such
later meeting as the Council may direct.
   (B)   (1)   The City employee assigned to review the application may:
         (a)   Accept the application and grant a building permit:
         (b)   Return the application for more information; or
         (c)   Reject the application.
      (2)   Applications which are returned or rejected may be referred or
appealed to the Council. The Council has powers identified under divisions (B)
(1)(a) through (B)(1)(c) above and may authorize a variance under conditions as
it deems appropriate.
      (3)   Applications not involving proposed construction within one foot of
a property line or required setback may be exempt from marking or locating
corner pins or providing a new survey as part of the application process. Such
exemption may be granted by the City employee assigned to review the
application or the Mayor.
   (C)   Acceptance shall require that any structural improvement to the
property shall not encroach upon or be located within any City property,
including, but not limited to, City streets, alleys, water lines or sewer
lines.
   (D)   In the event any such application reflects an encroachment of the
above noted City facilities, the application shall be rejected until such time
as the applicant can modify said plans to eliminate any encroachment upon a
City facility; or, until such time as a variance may be issued wherein said
applicant(s) addresses the encroachment on terms acceptable to the City.
   (E)   A variance may be proposed by the applicant(s) at the time of initial
submission or upon re-submission following any rejection identifying an
encroachment or other issue.
(Ord. 358, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 9.1.3 FEES AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person applying for a land use permit shall file the application
with the City Clerk and shall pay a fee as set by resolution. Failure to apply
for and receive a land use permit prior to construction or installation of a
temporary or permanent structure on property located within the City shall
result in a fine consistent with Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. Each day the
structure remains without a land use permit shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   The City Council may order the structure removed or modified at the
applicant’s or owner’s expense if it rejects the application or if it
determines the structure has been modified without benefit of a permit and the
structure encroaches on City property or infrastructure. (Ord. 358, passed 12-
20-2016)
§ 9.1.4 BEACON LIGHTS REQUIRED ON CERTAIN STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any structure within the City limits which is between 50 feet and 100
feet in height shall have a determination made thereupon by the City Council as
to whether such structure should have a light atop the structure for proper
notification of aircraft. Such determination is at the discretion of the City
Council.
   (B)   Any structure within the City limits which exceeds 100 feet in height
shall have flashing red light on top of such structure in accordance with FAA
requirements.
   (C)   The owner of any structure located within the City limits which
exceeds 50 feet in height shall, prior to construction of such structure, file
in the office of the City Clerk an application in writing for a determination
of whether a light on top of such structure shall be required by the City.
   (D)   The owner of any structure which, by this section, is required to have
a light or which has been determined by the City Council to have a light, shall
ensure that such structure is properly lit within ten days of completion of
construction thereof, or within 30 days after passage and approval hereof for
structures previously in existence.
(Res. 559, passed 6-3-2013)
BUILDING SETBACK DISTANCES
§ 9.1.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCES. Structures if the fence consists of fixed posts, whether wood, metal
or composite material, inserted more than three inches into the ground
connected by boards, rails, chain link or other material and is used to
segregate an area or part of an area from another.
   STRUCTURE. Includes any permanent or semi-permanent human-made object
constructed on real property, or constructed off-site and moved onto real
property, and attached thereto, including, but not limited to, foundations,
dwellings, stairs/steps, sheds, garages or mobile homes. (Ord. 358, passed 12-
20-2016)
§ 9.1.16 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be erected, or any part thereof, nor
shall any existing building or structure be altered, enlarged or rebuilt, or
shall any building or structure be moved onto any real property within the City
limits, unless the same shall maintain a minimum setback of three feet from the
inside of the property line of said real property.
   (B)   Fences alone are excepted from the three-foot setback requirement, but
such structures, including the fixed posts, must be installed inside the
property lines and not on or over the property lines. Fences installed on or
over the property lines may be ordered removed or reconstructed to comply with
the setback provisions at any time the violation is discovered. An order for
reconstruction shall require the owner to submit an application as required
under §
9.1.1 if such order is not the result of an application review submitted by the
owner of the fence. (Ord. 358, passed 12-20-2016)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE CODE
Section
9.2.1 Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
9.2.2 Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of flammable or
combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks prohibited
9.2.3 Establishment of limits in which bulk storage of liquified petroleum gas
restricted
9.2.4 Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of explosives and
blasting agents prohibited
9.2.5 Appeals
9.2.6 Penalties
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 320, passed 8-2-1976
§ 9.2.1 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City that certain code known as the Uniform
Fire Code, recommended by the Western Fire Chiefs Association and the
International Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the 1973
edition thereof and the whole thereof, of which code not less than three copies
have been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk, and at the same
time are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set out at length herein;
and from August 6, 1976 the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the City. (1985 Code, § 15.10.010)
§ 9.2.2 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 15.201 of the Uniform Fire Code in which
storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited are hereby established as the fire limits as set forth in § 9.3.1.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 15.601 of the Uniform Fire Code in which
new plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited are hereby
established as the fire limits as set forth in § 9.3.1.(1985 Code, § 15.10.020)
§ 9.2.3 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS IN WHICH BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GAS RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in § 20.105(a) of the Uniform Fire Code in which bulk
storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted are hereby established as the
fire limits set forth in § 9.3.1.(1985 Code, § 15.10.030)
§ 9.2.4 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF
EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS PROHIBITED.
   The limits referred to in § 11.106(b) of the Uniform Fire Code in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are hereby established
as the fire limits set forth in § 9.3.1.(1985 Code, § 15.10.040)
§ 9.2.5 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Uniform
Fire Code do not apply, or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the
decision appealed.(1985 Code, § 15.10.050)
§ 9.2.6 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Uniform Fire
Code hereby adopted, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the City Council, or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and non-compliance respectively be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as set forth in §
1.4.1. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.(1985 Code, § 15.10.060)
CHAPTER 3: FIRE LIMITS
Section
9.3.1 Fire limits
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ord. 240, passed 2-3-1969
§ 9.3.1 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the City shall be comprised of the area within the
jurisdictional limits of the City as it appears on the most current map of the
City, as it may have been amended by the most recent annexation.(1985 Code, §
15.02.010)
CHAPTER 4: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section
9.4.1 Application
9.4.2 Disposition of application
9.4.3 Acceptance
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from Ords. 149, 150, 151, passed 1-6-1969
§ 9.4.1 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person being the owner, in fee simple, of real property located
within the City and subject to assessment for the payment of City taxes, who
desires to make an improvement thereto for the purpose of securing a water
supply, sewer facilities or of any other nature falling within the
classifications of improvements for which the organization of special
improvement districts is authorized by statute, shall file in the office of the
City Clerk an application in writing which shall state the following:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant and that they are the sole owner, in
fee simple, of the real property to be benefitted by the proposed improvement,
which property shall be described with the certainty required for recording
title;
      (2)   Liens and encumbrances, if any, upon the real property which is the
subject of the application; and
      (3)   Nature and extent of the proposed special improvement, estimated
total cost of same, proportion of total cost which applicant would pay the
City, on or before commencement of the work, in case it is contemplated that
the work shall be done by the City under superintendence of its employees; and
in case it is contemplated that the work shall be done by the applicant’s
employees, including the necessary engineering service, subject to approval and
acceptance by the City, then and in that event, the application shall state the
name of the proposed engineer and the proportion of total cost which applicant
would want the City to pay. In every application by the terms of which the City
would be required to finance the improvement, either which payment would be
deferred shall be stated.
   (B)   In part consideration for the financing of the cost of said
improvement by the City, either in whole or in part, the applicant will enter
into contract with the City, obligating the applicant to make promptly any and
all deferred payments of expenses which may be incurred by the City in
connection with such improvements, and agreeing that the City shall be entitled
to a lien upon the real property to be benefitted by such improvements to
secure such deferred payments. (1985 Code, § 15.06.010)
§ 9.4.2 DISPOSITION OF APPLICATION.
   Each such application shall be referred to the Council, at the next regular
meeting thereof, or at such later meeting as the Council may direct, and the
Council shall either accept or reject the same. Acceptance may be qualified and
conditional. The Clerk shall forthwith notify the applicant, by letter, of the
action taken by the Council, and if acceptance of the application be qualified,
shall require the applicant to return a written acceptance of the
qualifications within a stated number of days. If applicant, in such case,
shall not make written acceptance of the qualifications within the time stated
in the notice, the application shall be deemed abandoned. (1985 Code, §
15.06.020)
§ 9.4.3 ACCEPTANCE.
   Upon acceptance by the City of an application made as herein provided, a
contract shall be made and entered into between the City and the applicant, in
writing, to be executed on behalf of the City by the Mayor, upon approval as to
form by the City Attorney, and to be executed and acknowledged by the
applicant, which contract shall fully state the agreement of the parties
relative to the special improvements to be made, and in event that there shall
be a financing of expense by the City, the contract shall set out a schedule of
deferred payments to be made, with interest from completion of the work, for
which special assessments shall be levied against the property to be
benefitted; and the contract shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk and Recorder. (1985 Code, § 15.06.030)
CHAPTER 5: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Section
9.5.1 Definitions
§ 9.5.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply when considering any construction or change
to a structure or dwelling, including installation of water or sewer
connections or alterations to such services within the City limits, or
development of any parcel of land within the City or intended to be brought
within the City. Such terms specified in any regulations issued by the
Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation to implement the
Americans with Disabilities Act, or in referenced standards, have those
meanings.
   COMMERCIAL OR MULTIPLE USE FACILITY. A business establishment open to the
public which may or may not provide multiple water and sewer facilities for use
by more than one customer or employee, and includes restaurants, grocery stores
and office space. A MULTIPLE USE FACILITY includes, but shall not be limited
to, campgrounds, hotels/motels and hospitals and any facility included in the
definition of “household” below.
   HOUSEHOLD. A person living alone, or any of the following groups living
together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit and sharing common living,
sleeping, cooking and eating facilities:
      (1)   Any number of people related by blood, marriage, adoption,
guardianship or other duly-authorized custodial relationship;
      (2)   Not more than four unrelated people, including persons enrolled in
an institution of higher learning;
      (3)   Two unrelated people and any children related to either of them; or
      (4)   Not more than four people who are:
         (a)   Residents of a “community residential facility” as defined in
M.C.A. §§ 76-2-411 et seq. and this title; or
         (b)   Individuals meeting the definitions related to physical or
mental impairment which may be found in the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3602
(h) or its successor provision. This definition does not include those persons
currently illegally using or addicted to a “controlled substance” as defined in
the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 802(6).
      (5)   HOUSEHOLD does not include:
         (a)   Any society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, lodge,
combine, federation, coterie, cooperative housing or like organization;
         (b)   Any group of individuals whose association is temporary or
seasonal in nature; or
         (c)   Any group of individuals who are in a group living arrangement
as a result of criminal offenses.
   INDIVIDUAL DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion of a dwelling used by one
household for residential purposes.
   INDUSTRIAL. The businesses engaged in the manufacture and/or transportation
of goods which produce waste that is not classified as hazardous waste under
the Environmental Protection Act.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any room or combination of rooms, including trailers and mobile
homes, with facilities for cooking, designed for occupancy by one family, and
does not include nursing homes or other household units under the definition of
“household” division (5) above.
(Ord. 370, passed 4-1-2019)
TITLE 10: FLOOD CONTROL
   Chapter
      
1.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.    PERMIT PROCEDURES
      
3.    ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
      
4.    FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION
      
5.    STANDARDS
      
6.    ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
      
7.    VIOLATIONS
Editor’s note:
This title was derived from Ord. 350, passed 5-1-1989, and Ord. 325, passed 7-
13-1981
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
10.1.1 Statutory authorization
10.1.2 Findings of fact
10.1.3 Statement of purpose
10.1.4 Methods of reducing flood losses
10.1.5 Disclaimer
10.1.6 Definitions
10.1.7 Lands to which this chapter applies
§ 10.1.1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in the M.C.A. Title 76, Chapters 1 through
5, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council has adopted the following
provisions. (1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which could result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities
and when inadequately protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood
loss. (1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions.
   (B)   The chapter is designed for the wise planning and development of this
community’s floodplains to avoid conflict between its citizens need to develop
the land and natures need to discharge flood waters.
   (C)   Provisions of this chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize the need of public expenditure for flood control projects;
      (3)   Reduce the need for rescue and relief efforts;
      (4)   Lessen prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize public utility and facility damages;
      (6)   Maintain a stable tax base;
      (7)   Ensure potential buyers are notified when property is in a flood
hazard area; and
      (8)   Ensure residents of flood hazard areas are responsible for their
actions. (1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.4 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to limit flood damages in the City, this chapter has provisions for
restricting, prohibiting or guiding development activities that are subject to
flood damage.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.5 DISCLAIMER.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of any officer or
employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.6 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP or FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The official map
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency where areas of special flood
hazard are designated as Zone A.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The floor of the lowest enclosed area of a structure including
the basement. This means any floor used for living purposes, storage or
recreation and includes any floor that could be converted to such a use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, it also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after May 1, 1989.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including mobile homes and gas or
liquid storage tanks above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS.  
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
§ 10.1.7 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its flood insurance rate map panel 01 for Community No. 300047 C,
dated April 15, 1986. This map is adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter. It is on file at the White Sulphur Springs City Hall, 105
W. Hampton, P.O. Box 442, White Sulphur Springs, Montana 59645.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.010)
CHAPTER 2: PERMIT PROCEDURES
Section
10.2.1 Permits
10.2.2 Appointment of Floodplain Administrator
10.2.3 Contents of the permit
10.2.4 Permit review
§ 10.2.1 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required for all proposed structures, placement of
manufactured homes and other development in the community within flood-prone
areas.
   (B)   A permit shall also be required for any proposed watercourse
alteration or development.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.020)
§ 10.2.2 APPOINTMENT OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of White Sulphur Springs hereby appoints
the City Engineer or City Contract Engineer to act as the Floodplain
Administrator for the City.
   (B)   Before construction or development begins within any area of special
flood hazard, a permit shall be obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.020)
§ 10.2.3 CONTENTS OF THE PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit application may contain the following information: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing:
      (1)   Location and dimensions of the development site;
      (2)   Proposed structures: buildings, mobile homes, bridges, culverts and
the like (including existing structures where appropriate);
      (3)   Placement, number and type of anchors for mobile homes;
      (4)   Utility connection locations: sewer, water, gas and electric;
      (5)   Bridge and culvert plans must include hydraulic computations by a
registered engineer;
      (6)   Fill location and dimensions;
      (7)   Storage of materials;
      (8)   Drainage facilities; and
      (9)   Watercourse alterations, including plan drawings, cross-sections
and hydraulic computations.
   (B)   Applicants may be asked to furnish additional information if deemed
necessary by the Floodplain Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.020)
§ 10.2.4 PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be reviewed using the best available
base flood elevation and floodway data from any federal, state or other sources
until such data have been provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency:
      (1)   Assure sites are reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   Determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state or local agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   To determine if the proposed development adversely affects the
flood-carrying capacity of a flood-prone area.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means damage to
adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to physical
changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
   (C)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, the permit shall be granted without further
considerations.
   (D)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, technical
justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer) for the proposed
development shall be required.
   (E)   If the proposed development is a building, the provisions of Chapter 5
of this title shall apply.
   (F)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.020)
CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
Section
10.3.1 Alteration of watercourses
10.3.2 Encroachments
§ 10.3.1 ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Notify adjacent communities and the Montana Floodplain Management
Section (DNRC) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
   (B)   Require that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished within the
altered or relocated portion of said watercourse; and
   (C)   Where the watercourse is filled, impounded, dredged or diverted, or
where levees or floodwalls are constructed require that the flood-carrying
capacity not be diminished.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.030)
§ 10.3.2 ENCROACHMENTS.
   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements
and other development shall be prohibited in any floodway unless a technical
evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments won’t result in any increase in
flood levels during occurrence of a base flood discharge.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.030)
CHAPTER 4: FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION
Section
10.4.1 Floodplain boundary interpretation
§ 10.4.1 FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations where needed as to
the exact location of the Zone A floodplain boundary when there is a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.040)
CHAPTER 5: STANDARDS
Section
10.5.1 Standards
§ 10.5.1 STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads including the effects of
buoyancy.
         (b)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (2)   Construction materials and methods. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods, materials and
utility equipment that resist or minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, air conditioning
and other service facilities shall be designed and located to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within the components during flooding conditions.
         (b)   All new and replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewer
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the system. Sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate discharge into floodwaters.
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions and other developments shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         (b)   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions and other developments shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions and other developments shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
         (d)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for proposed
subdivisions, manufactured home parks and subdivisions and other developments
which contain at least 50 lots or five acres (whichever is less).
   (B)   Specific standards. 
      (1)   Where base flood elevation and floodway data have been provided,
the standards below are required.
      (2)   If data have not been provided, the Floodplain Administrator must
use judgment and be guided by the mapped 100-year flood boundaries, past flood
accounts described in newspapers, photos, eyewitness accounts or by high water
marks on buildings, telephone poles, bridges or other structures.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator, wherever possible, should designate
the base flood elevations.
      (4)   If the base flood elevations can be established, the following
standards would then be required.
         (a)   Residential construction.
            1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above the base flood elevation.
            2.   Manufactured homes shall be placed so that the lowest floor is
at least to or above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
            1.   Be flood-proofed so that to or above the base flood elevation
level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this division (B)(4)(b) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the responsible person as set forth in
Chapter 6 of this title.
      (5)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor subject to flooding
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (6)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
or review structural design, specifications and plans for the construction and
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice. The engineer or architect shall also certify
that the standards of this division (B)(6) are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in Chapter 6 of
this title.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.050)
CHAPTER 6: ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
Section
10.6.1 Information to be obtained and maintained
§ 10.6.1 INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED AND MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain for public inspection all
records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the Floodplain Administrator has utilized available base flood
elevation data or determined base flood depths and applied the specific
standards, the following is required:
      (1)   For new or substantially improved residential structures and
manufactured homes:
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures; and
         (b)   Record whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      (2)   For all new or substantially improved nonresidential structures:
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed; and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
10.5.1(B)(5) and (B)(6). (1985 Code, § 11.06.060)
CHAPTER 7: VIOLATIONS
Section
10.7.1 Violations; penalties for violations
§ 10.7.1 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment
not to exceed ten days or by both such fine and imprisonment for each such
offense, and in addition shall pay costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Mayor from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1985 Code, § 11.06.070)
TITLE 11: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
1.    SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
2.    ANNEXATION
CHAPTER 1: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
Section
General Provisions
11.1.1 Title
11.1.2 Authority
11.1.3 Effective date and applicability
11.1.4 Purpose and intent
11.1.5 Jurisdiction
11.1.6 Conflicts with regulations
11.1.7 Severability
11.1.8 Amendment of these regulations
11.1.9 Enforcement of these regulations
11.1.10 Responsibility for interpretation
Definitions
11.1.15 Terms and definitions
11.1.16 Application of definitions
11.1.17 Terms defined; definitions of same
Overview and Categories of Subdivisions/Subdivisions for Rent or Lease
11.1.25 Overview
11.1.26 What constitutes a subdivision
11.1.27 Subdivision categories: major and minor subdivisions reliminary Plat
Review
11.1.40 Overview
11.1.41 Main steps
11.1.42 Pre-application
11.1.43 Preliminary plat application submittal
11.1.44 Element review
11.1.45 Sufficiency review
11.1.46 Agency comments
11.1.47 Staff report
11.1.48 Public comment
11.1.49 Planning Board review and recommendation
11.1.50 New information after the Planning Board hearing
11.1.51 City Council decision
Phased Developments
11.1.60 Overview
Final Plats
11.1.70 Final plat application
11.1.71 City Council decision
11.1.72 Amending final plats
Subdivision Review Criteria and Application Amendment Procedures
11.1.80 Overview
11.1.81 Criteria for approval, conditional approval, or denial of preliminary
plat applications
11.1.82 Criteria for approval or denial of final plats
11.1.83 Variances
11.1.84 Extensions of preliminary plat
11.1.85 Amending preliminary plats and application materials
11.1.86 Determining a material change
11.1.87 Amending final plat approvals
Design Standards
11.1.95 General standards
11.1.96 Environmental considerations
11.1.97 Subdivision layout
11.1.98 Water, sewer, solid waste, and grading and drainage
11.1.99 Local services
11.1.100 Transportation
11.1.101 Water rights and water conveyance facilities
Exemptions
11.1.110 Exemptions, generally
11.1.111 General procedures for exemptions
11.1.112 Specific exemptions
 
Notes
  The flowcharts and administrative materials which are referenced herein were
1 adopted as laid out in full and by this reference may be found and is
  available for viewing in the offices at City Hall or through the City
  website.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11.1.1 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the CITY OF WHITE SULPHUR
SPRINGS SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS, and hereinafter referred to as "these
regulations."
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.2 AUTHORITY.
   Authorization for these regulations is contained in the Montana Subdivision
and Platting Act (MSPA), M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 3.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.3 EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall take effect on April 4, 2025. Review and approval,
conditional approval,or denial of a proposed subdivision may occur only under
the regulations in effect at the time asubdivision application is determined to
contain sufficient information for review as provided in § 11.1.45 (M.C.A. §
76-3-604(9)).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.4 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. As identified in M.C.A. § 76-3-102, the purposes of these
regulations are to:
      (1)   Promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
regulating the subdivision of land;
      (2)   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
      (3)   Lessen congestion in the streets and highways;
      (4)   Provide for adequate light, air, water supply, sewage disposal,
parks and recreation areas, ingress and egress, and other public requirements;
      (5)   Require development in harmony with the natural environment;
      (6)   Promote preservation of open space;
      (7)   Promote cluster development approaches that minimize costs to local
citizens and that promote effective and efficient provision of public services;
      (8)   Protect the rights of property owners;
      (9)   Require uniform monumentation of land subdivisions and transferring
interests in real property by reference to a plat or certificate of survey; and
      (10)   Provide for phased developments.
   (B)   Intent. As required by M.C.A. § 76-3-501, these regulations are
intended to reasonably provide for:
      (1)   The orderly development of the jurisdictional area;
      (2)   The coordination of roads within subdivided land with other roads,
both existing and planned;
      (3)   The dedication of land for roadways and for public utility
easements;
      (4)   The improvement of roads;
      (5)   The provision of adequate open spaces for travel, light, air, and
recreation;
      (6)   The provision of adequate transportation, water and storm-water
drainage systems;
      (7)   Subject to the provisions of M.C.A. § 76-3-511, the regulation of
sanitary facilities;
      (8)   The avoidance or minimizing of traffic congestion;
      (9)   The avoidance of subdivisions that would involve unnecessary
environmental degradation and danger of injury to health, safety, or welfare by
reason of natural hazard, including but not limitedto fire and wildland fire,
or the lack of water, drainage, access, transportation, or other public
servicesthat would necessitate an excessive expenditure of public funds for the
supply of the services.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.5 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations govern divisions of land and other subdivision-related
activities within the City of White Sulphur Springs, including land proposed
for subdivision outside the municipal boundaries butare proposed to be annexed
into the municipal boundaries of the City of White Sulphur Springs. Please note
that the City Council cannot render a decision on an preliminary plat
application until the subject property is annexed into the City.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.6 CONFLICTS WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When a conflict is found to exist within these regulations, the more
specific provision of these regulations shall be followed in lieu of a more
general provision.
   (B)   These regulations supplement all other regulations and ordinances.
Other regulations may include, but are not limited to, zoning codes, floodplain
regulations, buildings for lease or rent regulations, building and fire codes
and others. Where these regulations conflict with other laws, regulations,
ordinances, or resolutions, unless otherwise expressly stated, the more
restrictive requirements generally apply. However, where these regulations
conflict with zoning regulations, the zoning regulations apply, regardless of
which is stricter.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.7 SEVERABILITY.
   Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section or other
part of these regulationsis held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction
by express inclusion in the decision to be invalid, such judgment shall affect
only that part held invalid and such decision shall not affect, impair or
nullify this title as a whole or any other part thereof.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.8 AMENDMENT OF THESE REGULATIONS.
   These regulations may be amended by the City Council. Before the City
Council adopts amendments to these regulations it shall hold a public hearing
on the regulations and shall give public notice of its intent to adopt the
regulations and of the public hearing. Notice shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in Meagher County not less than 15 or more than 30
calendar days prior to the dateof the hearing. See M.C.A. § 76-3-503.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.9 ENFORCEMENT OF THESE REGULATIONS.
   Any person, corporation, or other entity that violates any of the provisions
of the MSPA or these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500 or by imprisonment
in jail for not more than three months or by both fine and imprisonment in a
county jail. Each sale, lease, or transfer, or offer of sale, lease, or
transfer of each separate parcel ofland in violation of any provision of the
Act or these regulations shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense
(M.C.A. § 76-3-105).
   If land transfers are not made in accordance with the MSPA, as implemented
by these regulations, the City Attorney and/or County Attorney shall commence
action to enjoin further sales or transfers and compel compliance with all
provisions (M.C.A. § 76-3-301).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.10 RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERPRETATION.
   In the event that any question arises concerning any provision or the
application of any provision of these regulations, the Administrator, in
consultation with the City Attorney as may be necessary, shall be responsible
for such interpretation, and shall look to the overall intent of these
regulations and the MSPA for guidance. The Administrator shall provide such
interpretations in writing upon request.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
DEFINITIONS
§ 11.1.15 TERMS AND DEFINITIONS.
   This subchapter gives definitions of certain terms used in these
regulations. Terms and phrases used in these regulations which are not
specifically defined shall have their common meaning when appropriate for its
context and to promulgate the purposes and intents of these regulations. When a
question arises concerning application of any term or phrase, it shall be the
duty of the Administrator to ascertain all pertinent facts and make an official
interpretation in writing upon written request.
   Thereafter such interpretations shall govern. All interpretations shall be
on file at the City offices. Any appeal of the Administrator's official written
interpretation shall be reviewed by the City Council.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.16 APPLICATION OF DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following words or phrases appear in these regulations, they
shall have the meaning assigned to them by this chapter. When not inconsistent
with the context, the singular number includes the plural. Words used in the
present include the future. Gender neutral language will be employed, thus all
neutral terms contemplate the masculine, the feminine and non-binary. The word
"person" includes bodies politic and corporate, partnerships, associations and
corporations. The word "shall" is always mandatory, and the word "may"
indicates use of discretion in making decisions. For, definitions of words used
within these regulations but not found in this chapter, the definition used in
the latest version of the Webster's Dictionary shall apply. If a definition in
this chapter conflicts with a definition referenced or found in M.C.A. Title
76, Chapter 3, the definition referenced or found in M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 3
shall control.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.17 TERMS DEFINED; DEFINITIONS OF SAME.
   ACCESS (LEGAL AND PHYSICAL).
      LEGAL ACCESS. Each lot in a subdivision either abuts a public (town,
city, county, state, or federal) street or road, or the subdivider has obtained
or will dedicate adequate and appropriateeasements across all necessary
properties, from a public road to each lot in the subdivision, whether or not a
road has been constructed within the easement. The easement relied upon for
legal access must be dedicated for public use or for private use specific to
the proposed subdivision prior to final plat review.
      PHYSICAL ACCESS. A physical street or road within a legal access easement
will providevehicular access from a public road network to each lot in the
subdivision.
      Note: Legal and physical access must be provided to each parcel within
any proposed subdivision. Preliminary and final plats and any instrument of
transfer concerning the parcels are required to include notation of legal and
physical access. No variance is allowed to the requirements that legal and
physical access be provided to each parcel; only variance(s) to the applicable
design standards for access may be granted.
   ADJOINING LANDOWNER (ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER). The owner of record of a
parcel of land that is contiguous at any point to a tract of interest, or land
that is directly across a watercourse or right-of-way from the tract of
interest (such as a property proposed for subdivision).
   ADMINISTRATIVE MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision meeting the requirements of
subsection M.C.A. § 76-3-609(6).
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized by the City Council to
perform the duties of review and administration set forth in these regulations.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for growing, raising, or marketing of plants or
animals to produce food, feed, and fiber commodities. Agricultural land also
includes land considered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service to have
a soil of agricultural importance and lands devoted to a soil conservation or
rangeland management program. Agriculture does not include gardening for
personal use, keeping of house pets, kenneling, or landscaping for aesthetic
purposes.
   AGRICULTURAL WATER USER FACILITIES. Those facilities which provide water for
agricultural land or provide water for the production of agricultural products.
These facilities include, but are not limited to, ditches, canals, pipes, head
gates, tanks, drains, reservoirs, ponds, and developed springs used for
agricultural purposes.
   ARM. The Administrative Rules of Montana.
   BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well-defined and fixed
boundaries. Such boundaries may include streets, railroads, irrigation ditches,
streams, platted lands, or a combination thereof.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A drawing of a field survey prepared by a registered
surveyor for the purpose of disclosing facts pertaining to boundary locations
(M.C.A. § 76-3-103(1)).
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision with lots clustered in a group of five or
more lots that is designed to concentrate building sites on smaller lots in
order to reduce capital and maintenance costs for infrastructure through the
use of concentrated public services and utilities, while allowing other lands
to remain undeveloped (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(2)).
   COMMON ELEMENT (CONDOMINIUMS). A common element is defined as all portions
of the property except the units. Examples of common elements include walkways,
lighting in common hall ways, garbage collection areas, swimming pools,
landscaping, club houses, and more.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of single units with common elements located on
property submitted to the provisions of the Montana Unit Ownership Act, MCA
Title 70, Chapter 23. The term does not include a townhome or townhouse (M.C.A.
§ 70-23-102(5)).
   COVENANT (RESTRICTIVE COVENANT). A limitation contained in a deed or other
document that restricts or regulates the use of the real property.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general
and public use, reserving to the landowner no rights that are incompatible with
the full exercise and enjoyment of the public use to which the property has
been devoted (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(3)).
   DEQ (MDEQ). The Montana Department of Environmental Quality.
   DIVISION OF LAND. The segregation of one or more parcels of land from a
larger tract held in single or undivided ownership by transferring or
contracting to transfer title to a portion of the tract, or properly filing a
certificate of survey or subdivision plat establishing the identity of the
segregated parcels pursuant to the MSPA. The conveyance of a tract of record or
an entire parcel of land that was created by a previous division of land is not
a division of land (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(4)).
   DRIVEWAY.
      INDIVIDUAL. A vehicular access that serves only one lot, being the lot it
is located within.  Individual driveways are not streets for purposes of these
regulations and are not subject to the street design standards but are subject
to the standards for driveways in the City of White Sulphur Springs Zoning
Ordinance.
      SHARED. A vehicular access serving two lots or dwelling units. Shared
driveways are not streets for purposes of these regulations and are not subject
to the street design standards but are subject to the standards for driveways
in the City of White Sulphur Springs Zoning Ordinance.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion of a building designed for a single
household with cooking, eating, sleeping, and living facilities that include
connection to City water and sewer services.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for another to use, or
restriction on the right of the owner to use, all or a portion of the owner's
property for a specified purpose.
   ENGINEER (PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER). A person licensed in conformance with the
Montana Engineers' and Land Surveyors' Act (M.C.A. Title 37, Chapter 67) to
practice engineering in the State of Montana.
   EXPEDITED SUBDIVISION REVIEW. An expedited review process for subdivisions
that meet the requirements for the review process (M.C.A. § 76-3-628).
   FIRST MINOR SUBDIVISION. A proposed minor subdivision from a tract of record
that has not been subdivided or created by a subdivision under the MSPA or has
not resulted from a tract of record that has had more than five parcels created
from that tract of record under M.C.A. §§ 76-3-201 or 76-3-207 since July 1,
1973 (M.C.A. § 76-3-609).
   FLOOD. The water of any watercourse or drainway that is above the bank or
outside the channel and banks of the watercourse or drainway (M.C.A. § 76-5-103
(8)).
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude expected to recur on the
average of once every 100 years or a flood magnitude that has a 1% chance of
occurring in any given year (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(9)).
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the watercourse or drainway that would be
covered by the floodwater of a flood of 100-year frequency, except for sheet
flood areas that receive less than 1 foot of water per occurrence and are
considered "zone B" or a "shaded X zone" by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (M.C.A. § 76-5-103(10)).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a watercourse or drainway and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater of any watercourse or drainway (M.C.A. § 76-5-103
(11)).
   GOVERNING BODY. The governing authority of a city or town organized pursuant
to law (M.C.A.§ 76-3-103(7)). In the jurisdictional area of the City of White
Sulphur Springs, the White Sulphur Springs City Council is the governing body.
   GROWTH POLICY. A comprehensive development plan, master plan, or
comprehensive plan that was adopted pursuant to M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 1
before October 1, 1999, or a policy that was adopted pursuant to M.C.A. Title
76, Chapter 1 on or after October 1, 1999 (M.C.A. § 76-1-103(4)).The "growth
policy" referred to in these regulations is the Consolidated City of White
Sulphur Springs-Meagher County Growth Policy.
   HALF STREET. A proposed street with half the required right-of-way width for
its functional classification, located on the bounding edge of a parcel or lot.
   LANDOWNER. All individuals, groups, or parties with a title interest in the
property. For purposes of M.C.A. § 76-3-207 when a parcel of land, for which an
exemption from subdivision review is claimed, is being conveyed under a
contract-for-deed, the terms "property owner," "landowner," and "owner" mean
the seller of the parcel under the contract-for-deed (24.183.1104 ARM). For all
other purposes of these regulations, the terms "property owner," "landowner,"
and "owner" mean both the seller and the purchaser under a contract for deed.
   LOCAL SERVICES. Any and all services provided to the public by local
government entities or public utilities such as transportation systems,
including non-motorized facilities, parking, law enforcement, fire protection,
drainage structures, water supply, sanitary sewage disposal, solid waste
disposal, recreation, parks, libraries, or schools.
   LOT. A parcel, plot, or other land area created by subdivision for sale,
rent, or lease and shown as an individual unit of ownership on the most recent
plat or other record of subdivision.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the front lot line along the street providing
the lot its primary access.
   LOT TYPES.
      CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
streets.
      INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
      THROUGH LOT OR DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A lot whose front and rear lines both
abut streets (except alleys).
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that creates six or more lots.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSE OR HOME. A single-family dwelling, built offsite in a
factory on or after January 1, 1990, that is placed on a permanent foundation,
is at least 1,000 square feet in size, has a pitched roof and siding and
roofing materials that are customarily, as defined by local regulations, used
on site-built homes, and is in compliance with the applicable prevailing
standards of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development at
the time of its production. A manufactured home does not include a mobile home,
as defined in M.C.A. § 15-1-101 and as defined below; further, a manufactured
home does not include a mobile home or house trailer constructed before the
federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards went into effect on
June 15, 1976 (M.C.A.§ 76-2-302(4)).
   MATERIAL (AS IN A MATERIAL CHANGE OR AMENDMENT TO AN APPLICATION OR PLAT). A
change or amendment that impacts the completeness or sufficiency of
subdivision's preliminary plat application under §
11.1.86  of these regulations, has a significant impact on any of the primary
review criteria (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)(a)), brings the proposal out of
conformance with the growth policy, zoning or subdivision regulations, or
impacts the public's opportunity to provide meaningful comment. Examples of
changes that may be considered material are  outlined in §
11.1.86 of these regulations.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that creates five or fewer lots from a
tract of record (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(9)).
      a.   ADMINISTRATIVE MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision meeting the
requirements of M.C.A. § 76-3-609(6).
      b.   FIRST MINOR SUBDIVISION. A proposed subdivision of a tract of record
that:
         i.   Has not been subdivided or created by a subdivision; or
         ii.   Has not resulted from a tract of record that has had more than
five parcels created from that tract of record under M.C.A. §§ 76-3-201 or 76-
3-207 since October 1, 2003 (M.C.A. § 76-3-609(2)).
      c.   SUBSEQUENT MINOR SUBDIVISION. A proposed subdivision which is the
second or subsequent minor subdivision that does not result in a total of more
than five parcels created by subdivision or has not resulted from a tract of
record that has had more than five parcels created from that tract of record
under M.C.A. §§ 76-3-201 or 76-3-207 since October 1, 2003 (M.C.A.§ 76-3-609
(2)).
   MOBILE HOME. Forms of housing known as "trailers", "house trailers", or
"trailer coaches" exceeding eight feet in width or 45 feet in length, designed
to be moved from one place to another by an independent power connected to
them; or any trailer, house trailer, or trailer coach up to eight feet in width
or 45 feet in length used as a principal residence. The term includes such
units whether or not the unit has been constructed in conformance with Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards after June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A designated portion of a parcel of land designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home (or manufactured home) and its accessory
buildings, parking, yard, and other area for the exclusive use of the
occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land designed and developed to accommodate two
or more mobile homes, each occupying a portion of the site on a purchase,
lease, or rental basis, and each provided with the necessary utilities and
other amenities so that the total development serves as a suitable environment
for long-term residential occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. That area of a mobile home space which has been prepared
for the placement of a mobile home.
   MONTANA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MINIMUM STANDARDS. Minimum
standards promulgated by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality,
pursuant to M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 4, Part 1.
   MONUMENT (PERMANENT MONUMENT). Any structure of masonry, metal, or other
permanent, durable material placed in the ground, which is exclusively
identifiable as a monument to a survey point, expressly placed for surveying
reference (ARM 24.183.1101(1)(a)).
   MSPA. Montana Subdivision and Platting Act; M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 3.
   NATURAL ENVIRONMENT. The physical, chemical, and biological factors that
exist within or influence a geographic area or community. These factors
include, but are not limited to, geology, soils, topography, climate, surface
water, groundwater, floodplain, vegetation, and objects or places of cultural,
historic, or aesthetic significance.
   OPEN SPACE. Land or water areas retained for use as active or passive
recreation areas or for resource protection in an essentially undeveloped
state.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision application and preliminary plat that at
the time of submission consists of independently platted development phases
that are scheduled for review on a schedule proposed by the subdivider.
   PHASING PLAN. The design plan showing phases and timing for a subdivision
proposed to be subdivided in stages.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A land development project consisting of
residential clusters, industrial parks, shopping centers, or office building
parks that compose a planned mixture of land uses built in a prearranged
relationship to each other and having open space and community facilities in
common ownership or use (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(11)).
   PLANNING BOARD. A Planning Board formed pursuant to M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter
1. In the jurisdictional area of the City of White Sulphur Springs, the
Planning Board is the White Sulphur Springs and Meagher County Montana
Consolidated Planning Board.
   PLAT. A graphical representation of a subdivision showing the division of
land into lots, parcels, blocks, streets, alleys, and other divisions and
dedications (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(12)).
   The term "plat" includes the following types of plats, with definitions:
      AMENDED PLAT. The final drawing of any change to a filed platted
subdivision or any lots within a filed platted subdivision.
      FINAL PLAT. The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication required
to be prepared for filing for record with the county clerk and recorder
containing all elements and requirements set forth in these regulations and the
MSPA (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(6)).
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. A neat and scaled drawing of a proposed subdivision
showing the layout of streets, alleys, lots, blocks, and other elements of a
subdivision that furnish a basis for review by a City Council as more
specifically set forth in these regulations and the MSPA (M.C.A.§ 76-3-103
(13)). A preliminary plat is the plat that is the basis of the preliminary plat
application, so any decision on a preliminary plat application constitutes the
decision on the preliminary plat.
      VACATED PLAT. A plat which has been voided under the provisions of M.C.A.
§§ 76-3-305, 7-5-2501, 7-5-2502, 7-14-2616, 7-14-2617, and 7-14-4114 as
applicable.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION. The subdivider's submittal consisting of the
preliminary plat, the preliminary plat application form and supplemental
information.
   PRE-APPLICATION SKETCH (OR DRAWING). A legible drawing showing approximate
boundaries, dimensions, areas, distances, and other pertinent information of a
proposed subdivision.
   PRIMARY ACCESS. Streets comprising the network of streets, roads, and
highways that provide the required access to a subdivision and the lots within.
   PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS. The same types of improvements as defined under public
improvements, except the structure or facility has not been dedicated to the
public or otherwise acquired by a government entity for public use.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street (or road) is private if its right-of-way has
neither been dedicated nor acquired for public use. A private road may be open
to use by the general public or public access maybe restricted. In general
terms, new subdivisions with conventional lots do not include private streets;
new private streets are typically in private developments such as RV parks,
mobile home parks, and condominium and townhouse developments with multiple
buildings where the City of White Sulphur Springs's conventional pattern of
blocks and lots is not continued. Only the City Council can accept dedication
or acquire a new street for public use or allow it to be private.
   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY. A condition of well-being, reasonably free from
danger, risk, or injury, for a community at large, or for all people, not
merely for the welfare of a specific individual or a small class of persons.
Allowable standards established by Federal, State, and local policies, codes,
and regulations shall be the primary means for defining the limits of
acceptable public health and safety.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any structure or facility constructed to serve more than
one lot in a subdivision which is dedicated to the public or otherwise acquired
by a government entity for public use. Examples of typical public improvements
include parks, streets or roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and street
lighting, utilities, and systems for water supply, sewage disposal, drainage,
or fire protection.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street (or road) is public if its right-of-way has been
dedicated to the public or acquired for public use.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Public utility has the meaning provided in M.C.A. § 69-3-101
except that for the purposes of subdivision regulations, the term includes
county or consolidated city and county water or sewer districts as provided for
in M.C.A. Title 7, chapter 13, parts 22 and 23, and municipal sewer or water
systems and municipal water supply systems established by the governing body of
a municipality pursuant to M.C.A. Title 7, chapter 13, parts 42, 43, and 44
(M.C.A. § 76-3-103(14)).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicular-type portable structure without
permanent foundation, which is built on a single chassis; which is designed to
be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; primarily
designed as temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping, and
travel use including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers,
camping trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RV PARK). A plot of ground upon which two or more
sites are located, established, or maintained for occupancy by the general
public as temporary living quarters for travel, recreation or vacation
purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE (RV SPACE). A designated portion of a
recreational vehicle park designed for the placement of a single recreational
vehicle and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   REVIEWING AUTHORITY. The DEQ or local board of health or sanitarian as
authorized under M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 4.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A linear public way established or dedicated for public
purposes by a duly recorded plat, deed, easement, grant, prescription,
condemnation, governmental authority, or by operation of law, intended to be
occupied by a street, sidewalks, trails, railroad, electric transmission lines,
water line, sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line, or other similar uses.
   STATE. The State of Montana.
   STREET. A way or facility for vehicular traffic designated as a street,
highway, boulevard, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, avenue, road, or court.
The term "street" may be used interchangeably with the term "road".
   SUBDIVIDER. A person who causes land to be subdivided or who proposes a
subdivision of land (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(15)). When used in these regulations,
the term "subdivider" may also include the property purchaser on a contract for
deed or its agent, or the landowner's agent, if the landowner has provided the
Administrator written notification that the landowner's agent is authorized to
act on the landowner's behalf and to receive notices regarding local government
decisions concerning the subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of land or land so divided that it creates one or
more parcels containing less than 160 acres that cannot be described as a one-
quarter aliquot part of a United States government section, exclusive of public
roadways, in order that the title to the parcels may be sold or otherwise
transferred and includes any resubdivision and a condominium. The term also
means an area, regardless of its size, that provides or will provide multiple
spaces for rent or lease on which recreational camping vehicles or mobile homes
will be placed (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(16)).
   SUBDIVISION GUARANTEE. A report from a title company on the condition of
title to the property proposed for subdivision, which identifies the owners of
record of the property, lien holders, encumbrances, easements and restrictions
of record, and all other conditions of title of public record, and accompanied
by a guarantee of the accuracy of the report from the title insurance agent or
its underwriter.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT. A contractual agreement that may be
required by the City Council to ensure the construction of improvements related
to the subdivision as required by these subdivision regulations. The
subdivision improvement agreement may require collateral to secure the
construction of such improvements, such as the deposit of certified funds,
irrevocable letters of credit, performance or property bonds, private or public
escrow agreements, or similar financial guarantees.
   SUBSEQUENT MINOR SUBDIVISION (OR SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT MINOR SUBDIVISION). A
proposed subdivision which is the second or subsequent minor subdivision that
does not result in a total of more than five parcels created by subdivision and
any combination of exemptions under M.C.A. §§ 76-3-201, or 76-3-207 from a
tract of record since October 1, 2003.
   SURVEYOR (PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR). A person licensed in conformance with
the Montana Engineers' and Land Surveyors' Act (M.C.A. Title 37, Chapter 67) to
practice surveying in the State of Montana.
   SURVEYOR (EXAMINING LAND SURVEYOR). A registered land surveyor duly
appointed by the City Council to review surveys and plats submitted for filing
(M.C.A. § 76-3-103(5)).
   TOPOGRAPHY. The characteristics of the ground surface such as plains, hills,
mountains, slopes, and other physiographic features.
   TOWNHOME OR TOWNHOUSE. Property that is owned subject to an arrangement
under which persons own their own units and hold separate title to the land
beneath their units, but under which they may jointly own the common areas and
facilities (M.C.A. § 70-23-102(14)). In White Sulphur Springs, a "townhome" or
"townhouse" is also specifically defined as a residential dwelling unit which
is part of a group of two or more such units separated by a common party wall,
having no doors, windows, or other provisions for interior human passage or
visibility between the units. The terms "townhouses" and "townhomes" may be
used interchangeably.
   TOWNHOUSE LOT. An arrangement under which units share a common wall, and
individuals own their own units and hold separate title to the land beneath the
unit.
   TRACT OF RECORD. An individual parcel of land, irrespective of ownership,
that can be identified by legal description, independent of any other parcel of
land, using documents on file in the records of the county clerk and recorder's
office (M.C.A. § 76-3-103(17)).
   TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY. A report prepared by a qualified professional that
addresses the anticipated impacts of a subdivision on the existing and proposed
transportation network based on traffic patterns, infrastructure conditions,
and traffic expected to result from build out of the subdivision. Traffic
impact studies must include findings and recommendations using nontechnical
terminology to help public officials with their decision making on the
subdivision and related infrastructure improvements.
   VARIANCE. A request submitted by a subdivider to deviate from any of the
design standards found in §
11.1.83 . Variances cannot be granted for deviations from statutorily required
review processes.
   VICINITY SKETCH. A map at a scale suitable to locate a proposed subdivision,
showing the boundary lines of all adjacent properties and streets and other
information necessary to determine the general location of a proposed
subdivision.
   WILDLIFE. Animals that are not domesticated or tamed.
   WILDLIFE HABITAT. An area containing the complex of environmental conditions
essential to wildlife for feeding and forage, cover, migration, breeding,
rearing, nesting, or buffers from those areas. It also includes areas essential
to the conservation of species protected by the Endangered Species Actor of
special interest or concern to the State of Montana.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
OVERVIEW AND CATEGORIES OF SUBDIVISIONS/ SUBDIVISIONS FOR RENT OR LEASE
§ 11.1.25 OVERVIEW.
   This chapter identifies and discusses the categories of types of land
divisions that require subdivision review.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.26 WHAT CONSTITUTES A SUBDIVISION.
   A subdivision is any division of land creating one or more parcels less than
160 acres that cannot be descried as an aliquot part of a United States
government section (M.C.A. § 76-3-104), and that does not qualify as an
exemption as described in §§
11.1.110 through
11.1.112 - Exemptions. In addition, the term "subdivision" includes
condominiums and areas with multiple spaces for rent or lease for recreational
camping vehicles or mobile homes as further described in this chapter (M.C.A. §
76-3-103).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.27 SUBDIVISION CATEGORIES: MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision types shall be categorized and processed as either a major
subdivision or minor subdivision.
   (A)   Major subdivisions. Any subdivision consisting of six or more lots
shall be reviewed as a major subdivision.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions. Any subdivision which contains five or fewer lots
shall be reviewed as a minor subdivision, regardless of whether it is a first
minor subdivision or a subsequent minor subdivision.
   (C)   General procedural differences for major and minor subdivisions. There
are general proceduraldifferences between major subdivisions and minor
subdivisions which are listed below. Additionalspecific differences are
identified in the appropriate portions of these regulations throughout.
      (1)   Major subdivision process.
         (a)   Review period of 60 working days for subdivisions with less than
50 lots, and 80 working days for subdivisions with 50 lots or more (M.C.A. §
76-3-604);
         (b)   Environmental Assessment, along with Community Impact Report,
and a Summary of Probable Impacts are all required (M.C.A. § 76-3-603); and
         (c)   A public hearing with the Planning Board requiring adjacent
property notification isrequired (M.C.A. § 76-3-605).
      (2)   Minor subdivision process.
         (a)   Review period of 35 working days (M.C.A. § 76-3-609);
         (b)   A Summary of Probable Impacts is required, but not an
Environmental Assessment or Community Impact Report;
         (c)   A public meeting with the Planning Board for subdivisions
intended to create three to five lots. For subdivisions intended to create two
lots, no meeting with the Planning Board is required;
and
         (d)   No adjacent property owner notifications, except as may be done
as a courtesy orthrough basic noticing procedures.
      (3)   Administrative Minor Subdivisions, M.C.A. § 76-3-609(6).
         (a)   First and subsequent minor subdivisions must be reviewed using
the administrative process if the proposed subdivision:
            1.   Is located in an area that is subject to and complies with
City zoning regulations;
            2.   Has a will-serve letter for City water and sewer service;
            3.   Has existing legal and physical access to each lot; and
            4.   Does not require a variance to any of the contents of the City
subdivision regulations.
         (b)   An administrative minor subdivision meeting the requirements of
this section is exempt from:
            1.   Providing a summary of probable impacts based on criteria
described in M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3) and an environmental assessment required in
M.C.A. § 76-3-603;
            2.   Review under the criteria described in M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)
(a); and
            3.   The requirements of M.C.A. §§ 76-3-209(2) through (5).
         (c)   The subdivision administrator appointed by the governing body
shall:
            1.   Assume all decision-making authority of the governing body
provided in M.C.A. § 76-3-608;
            2.   Approve, conditionally approve, or deny an administrative
minor subdivision and issue a written statement pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-620
within 30 working days of a determination by the reviewing agent or agency that
the application contains required elements and sufficient information for
review; and
            3.   Immediately on a determination that the application meets the
application requirements, notify by first-class mail of the pending
application:
               a.   Each property owner of record whose property is immediately
adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat; and
               b.   Each purchaser under contract for deed of property
immediately adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat.
         (d)   If a party identified in M.C.A. § 76-3-625(3) objects to a
subdivision administrator's decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
an administrative minor subdivision, the party may request, in writing, that
the subdivision administrator forward the application on to the City Council.
The City Council shall sustain the subdivision administrator's decision based
on the record as a whole unless the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
unlawful. The City Council has 15 working days from the receipt of the request
to review a decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
administrative minor subdivision and make a final determination.
         (e)   Other requirements. All the requirements of M.C.A. Title 76,
chapter 3, except those exempted apply to an administrative minor subdivision.
      (4)   Expedited subdivision review process (M.C.A. § 76-3-623). A
subdivision application, regardless of the number of lots, which meets the
requirements provided in this section is entitled to the expedited review
process at the applicant's request.
         (a)   Requirements to be eligible for the expedited review process:
            1.   Subdivision is within an area that is served by City water and
sewer services and is subject to the City's adopted growth policy and zoning
regulations;
            2.   Subdivision complies with the City's zoning regulations and
complies with the City's design standards and other subdivision regulations;
and
            3.   Subdivision application includes plans for the onsite
development of or extension to public infrastructure in accordance with adopted
City ordinances and regulations.
         (b)   A subdivision application that meets the requirements provided
in subsection (C)(4)(a) above is exempt from:
            1.   The preparation of an environmental assessment as required in
M.C.A.§ 76-3-603; and
            2.   Review under the criteria listed in M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)(a).
         (c)   Application review. The subdivision application must be reviewed
for:
            1.   Required elements and sufficiency of information as provided
in M.C.A.§§ 76-3-601(1) through (3) to determine whether the application
complies with City zoning regulations and complies with the City design
standards and other subdivision regulations; and
            2.   Application includes plans for the onsite development of or
extension to public infrastructure in accordance with adopted ordinances and
regulations.
         (d)   City Council review. The City Council shall:
            1.   Hold a hearing and approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
subdivision application within 35 working days of a determination by the
subdivision administrator that the application contains required elements and
sufficient information for review as provided in §§
11.1.44 and
11.1.45 of these regulations. If the subdivision application includes a request
for variance or deviation from subdivision regulations the time for holding a
hearing must be extended to a total of 45 working days. The governing body may
delegate to the Planning Board the requirement to hold a public hearing on the
subdivision application as required in this section.
            2.   Provide notice for the hearing by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county not less than 15 days prior to the date of
the hearing;
            3.   Grant preliminary plat approval unless public comment or other
information demonstrates the application does not comply with:
               a.   Adopted City zoning regulations, design standards, and
other requirements of the City subdivision regulations adopted pursuant to
statute including any criteria for granting variances or deviations from
subdivision regulations; or
               b.   Adopted City ordinances or regulations for the onsite
development of or extension to public infrastructure; and
            4.   Provide to the applicant and the public a written statement
within 30 days of the decision to approve or deny a proposed subdivision that
provides:
               a.   The facts and conclusions that the City Council relied on
in making its decision to approve or deny the application; and
               b.   Preliminary plat approval conditions that must be satisfied
before the final plat may be approved.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW
§ 11.1.40 OVERVIEW.
   This chapter details the review process for preliminary plat applications
(see Figures 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the process for major and minor subdivisions,
and as referenced herein were adopted and laid out in full and by this
reference may be found and are available for viewing in the offices at City
Hall or through the City website).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.41 MAIN STEPS.
   The main steps in the preliminary plat review process are as follows; the
following subsections describe each of the steps in more detail:
   Step 1: Pre-Application.
   Step 2: Application Submittal.
   Step 3: Element Review.
   Step 4: Sufficiency Review.
   Step 5: Soliciting Agency Comments.
   Step 6: Staff Report.
   Step 7: Public Review.
   Step 7: Planning Board Hearing and Recommendation (Major Subdivisions only).
   Step 8: City Council Hearing and Decision.
   The flowcharts (which are referenced herein were adopted as laid out in full
and by this reference may be found and are available for viewing in the offices
at City Hall or through the City website) show the typical preliminary plat
review process for Major Subdivisions, Minor Subdivisions, Administrative Minor
Subdivisions and Expedited Subdivisions.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.42 PRE-APPLICATION.
   A pre-application meeting to explain the subdivision application and review
process is required (M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(q)(i)). The pre-application meeting
is intended to provide an overview of what will be required for the subdivision
application, as well as alerting the subdivider to potential issues and/or
provide information that could affect design.
   A pre-application meeting is scheduled with the Administrator by the
subdivider filling out and submitting a pre-application request form in
addition to the required pre-application materials.
   (A)   Pre-application submittal.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a completed Pre-Application Form (see
Administrative Materials A, "Subdivision Pre-Application Request Form", found
in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative Materials).
      (2)   When a complete pre-application form has been submitted to the
Administrator, the Administrator shall notify the subdivider of the date and
time of the meeting. The meeting shall be held within 30 days of the subdivider
submitting the required materials (M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(q)(iv)).
      (3)   The Administrator may notify and invite representatives of affected
public utilities and review agencies at the local, state, and federal levels,
including but not limited to, the local sanitarian and/or DEQ reviewer, County
Clerk and Recorder, Public Works Department, Fire Department, Law Enforcement,
Emergency Services, etc. to the pre-application meeting. The role of these
agencies is to provide comment relevant to their agency's review. The contacted
agencies may also submit written comments prior to the pre-application meeting,
at the meeting, or following the meeting.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. The subdivider or their representative is
required to attend the pre-application meeting, either in person or via other
means acceptable to the Administrator. At the pre-application meeting, the
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Identify the state laws, local regulations, and growth policy
provisions that may apply to the subdivision review process (M.C.A. § 76-3-504
(1)(q)(ii));
      (2)   Provide the subdivider with a comprehensive list of the
information, documents, fees as adopted by resolution of the City Council, and
other materials that shall be required in order to submital preliminary plat
application;
      (3)   Provide to the subdivider a list of agencies that the subdivider
must contact prior to submitting the preliminary plat application and the
timeframes that the public utilities, agencies and other entities must be given
to respond (See: a list of agencies that the Administrator may use to create
the listis included as Administrative Materials K "List of Agencies for
Contact", found in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative Materials (the
administrative materials which are referenced herein were adopted as laid out
in full and by this reference may be found and are available for viewing in the
offices at City Hall or through the City website); (Note: other agencies and
entities may be included on the pre-application list at the Administrator's
discretion); and
      (4)   Identify particular additional information the Administrator
anticipates will be required for review of the subdivision application.
However, the identification of this information by the Administrator at the
pre-application stage does not in any way limit the Administrator's ability to
require additional or different information at a later time.
   (C)   Pre-application duration. Within one year of the pre-application
meeting, the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat application or a pre-
application extension request. If a preliminary plat application or extension
request is not received within one year, the pre-application is void and will
need to be re-submitted if the subdivider wishes to proceed. Requests for
extensions shall be addressed to the Administrator, who may approve one
extension for up to one year. The Administrator shall notify the subdivider in
writing of a decision to approve or deny an extension. If denied, the reasons
for denial shall be included in the notice. If the subdivision regulations are
updated or revised prior to the subdivider submitting a preliminary plat
application, another pre-application meeting may be required by the
Administrator.
   (D)   Restrictions on improvements. By requesting the pre-application
meeting, the subdivider agrees to the following provisions restricting
construction and changes to the property. These provisions are intended to
allow for a complete evaluation of the proposed subdivision compared to the
pre-subdivision condition.
      (1)   Construction timing. Once a request for a pre-application meeting
has been submitted, the subdivider shall not engage in construction of
subdivision-related improvements prior to approval of the preliminary plat
application. Subdivision-related improvements include water, wastewater,
stormwater, and solid waste facilities; subdivision-related utilities; and
roads, streets, and any improvement requiring grading or earth moving. All
historic, cultural, archaeological, and natural resources on the site shall
remain unaltered. Riparian vegetation and wetlands may not be damaged or
removed.
      The following activities shall be allowed:
         (a)   Work related to testing, analytical, or monitoring activities
that may be required by these regulations or are relevant to the development of
the preliminary plat application; and
         (b)   Activities approved in advance and in writing by the
Administrator that qualify as actions that are not subdivision-related.
   The City of White Sulphur Springs shall not be responsible if improvements
or alterations have to be eradicated, moved, repaired, or rebuilt due to a
subdivider making property improvements prior to and/or not in accordance with
conditions of preliminary approval.
      (2)   Enforcement. A violation of the restrictions in this section
subjects the subdivider to the enforcement provisions and penalties in §
11.1.9 . Restoration of any resource alteration, as described above, may be
required as a condition of subdivision approval.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.43 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider is responsible for submitting the preliminary plat
application and ensuring the subdivision conforms to the Design Standards in §§
11.1.95 through
11.1.101, all applicable forms in the Supplemental Administrative Materials,
and that it meets the review criteria in §
11.1.81. The subdivider is advised to address in the application package
comments and questions raised at the pre-application meeting.
   (A)   Preliminary plat application contents. The subdivider shall submit to
the Administrator an application package consisting of one paper copy and one
electronic copy in an Adobe PDF file. The application package should include
all of the elements listed below, as identified in the pre-application meeting:
      (1)   Preliminary plat application form (see Administrative Materials B,
"Subdivision Preliminary Plat Application"): The form shall be signed by the
property owner(s) and subdivider.
      (2)   All applicable information included in the preliminary plat
application form checklist of information required to accompany the
application.
      (3)   Preliminary plat/plan and supplemental plats/plans, as necessary to
show required information.
      (4)   Review fee, pursuant to fee schedule adopted by resolution.
      (5)   Tract of record. The application shall specify and provide
documentation of the legal existence of the tract(s) of record being divided.
      (6)   Agricultural covenants. If the subject property was created with an
agricultural covenant per M.C.A. § 76-3-207(1)(c), the application shall
contain a written request to revoke the covenant.
      (7)   Site location map (vicinity map).
      (8)   Aerial photo of property to be subdivided.
      (9)   Lot layout. Show existing structures, proposed building sites, and
all wells, drainfields, utilities, water/sewer lines, riparian areas; and
ponds, lakes, and other waterbodies.
      (10)   Narrative summary. Narrative summary of the proposed subdivision.
      (11)   Plan for phased development. The subdivider's phasing plan,
including a proposed schedule for when the subdivider plans to submit for
review each phase of the development and which improvements are proposed to be
installed with review and final plat approval of each phase.
      (12)   Subdivision guarantee. The subdivision guarantee must be dated
within 30 days of application submittal. Copies of all filed documents
referenced in the subdivision guarantee shall be submitted with the
application.
      (13)   Existing and proposed easements. Shall be shown on the plat and
identified as to purpose and with record references (e.g., book/page) for
existing easements.
      (14)   Legal and physical access. The subdivision plat shall include
documentation of legal and physical access to the subdivision and each proposed
lot.
      (15)   Zoning compliance. Information to demonstrate compliance with
zoning regulations. Any necessary variances to the zoning standards must be
reviewed and approved by the Board of Adjustment, and a copy of the approval(s)
must be submitted with the Preliminary Plat Application.
      (16)   Request for variance. A request for variance is required for any
component of the subdivision that does not conform to the requirements of §§
11.1.95  through
11.1.101 , "Design Standards."
      (17)   Summary of probable impacts (minor subdivisions) (for format, see
Administrative Materials C, "Summary of Probable Impacts").
      (18)   Environmental assessment (major subdivisions) (for format, see
Administrative Materials D, "Environmental Assessments).
      (19)   Proposed mitigation. Description of any proposed mitigation for
significant impacts or requested variances.
      (20)   Agency comment. A list of agencies contacted by subdivider and all
correspondence.
      (21)   Adjoining property owners. Names and addresses of all adjoining
property owners.
      (22)   Proposed street plans.
      (23)   Traffic impact study. Required where the subdivision will add more
than 750 vehicle trips per day (this or a similar study may also be required by
the Montana Department of Transportation or other agency; where such studies
are required, they shall be included with the preliminary plat application for
a subdivision, but where required by these regulations, studies that do not
conform to these regulations must be supplemented with information required by
these regulations). (For example, see Administrative Materials H, "Contents of
Traffic Impact Studies", found in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative
Materials.)
      (24)   Grading plan. For any areas proposed for surface disturbance,
including streets and utilities.
      (25)   Storm-water drainage plan. For any areas proposed for roads, for
facilities (including swales or detention areas) that will serve more than one
lot, and as required by the local public health office and/or DEQ.
      (26)   Water and sanitation as required in M.C.A. § 76-3-622.
      (27)   Solid waste management plans.
      (28)   Irrigation. Information for existing and proposed irrigation on or
adjacent to the subdivision, including any proposal to remove water rights from
the property.
      (29)   Utilities. Description of existing and proposed utilities, and a
description and/or map of existing utilities nearest locations.
      (30)   Proposed parkland. Proposal to meet parkland dedication
requirement when applicable as identified by statute
      (31)   Plans pertaining to fire suppression.
      (32)   Vegetation management plan and/or landscaping plan, when required.
      (33)   Mineral rights. Status of existing mineral rights (as known) and
proposed disposition of those rights.
      (34)   Assessment of cultural and historic characteristics.
      (35)   Draft property owners' association documents, including draft
articles of incorporation, declaration and bylaws, and covenants, but only
those that directly and materially impact a condition of subdivision approval.
      (36)   Mail delivery proposal that complies with United States Postal
Service requirements.
   (B)   Preparing the application. It is the subdivider's responsibility to
provide sufficient information
in the application to show that significant impacts can be mitigated.
      (1)   Coordination with agencies and interested parties. Prior to
submitting an application, the subdivider is advised to coordinate with
agencies and consider their comments in the design of the subdivision. The
Administrator will have identified an initial list of relevant agencies at the
pre-application meeting. Correspondence with agencies shall be submitted with
the application. The subdivider's contacts with agencies do not preclude the
Administrator, Planning Board, or City Council from contacting the same
agencies or others during preliminary plat application review.
      (2)   Consideration for installing improvements. As part of the
subdivision approval process, the subdivider may be required to install capital
improvements such as but not limited to roads, sidewalks, streetlights, water
and sewer, or secure a financial guarantee for their installation. While
preparing the application, the subdivider should be aware of these costs and
plan for the expenditures prior to final plat approval.
   (C)   Submitting the application.
      (1)   When a subdivision lies entirely within the incorporated
municipality. If the proposed subdivision lies entirely within the City of
White Sulphur Springs, the application and preliminary plat must be submitted
to the Administrator for the City. Major subdivisions will be sent to the City-
County planning board for review and recommendation to the City Council. The
City Council will render a decision on all subdivision applications (M.C.A. §
76-3-601).
      (2)   When a subdivision lies partly within the incorporated municipality
and partly in the county.
         (a)   If the proposed subdivision lies partly within the City of White
Sulphur Springs and partly within the unincorporated area of Meagher County,
and a portion of the subdivision is proposed to remain in the County, the
application and preliminary plat must be submitted to the Administrator for the
City and to the Administrator for the County. Both the City and County
governing bodies issue decisions on the application (M.C.A. § 76-3-601(2)(c)).
         (b)   The following is recommended to coordinate review:
            1.   Administrators for the County and municipality meet to discuss
the proposed subdivision, overlapping issues, and make a recommendation on
coordination to the governing bodies.
            2.   The governing bodies shall direct the Administrators as to the
preferred method of coordination.
            3.   The most coordinated approach is joint review for subdivision
and annexation, with one staff report prepared for both jurisdictions, and with
Planning Board meetings and/or hearings held jointly, and for the governing
bodies to also meet jointly.
            4.   An alternative approach is for each local government to
conduct separate but concurrent reviews, the County for subdivision review and
the City for annexation and subdivision. If this alternative is selected, the
local governments shall share all reports and meeting/hearing notices. The City
shall coordinate its subdivision and annexation procedures to minimize
duplication of hearings, reports, and other requirements whenever possible.
            5.   If the governing bodies of the County and City approve of the
subdivision to be annexed, the County shall first approve the subdivision with
the condition of annexation; and the City shall then approve the annexation and
the subdivision.
      (3)   When a subdivision is in an unincorporated area and proposed to be
annexed (M.C.A. § 76-3-601(2)(d)).
         (a)   If the subdivider proposes to annex a subdivision located in the
unincorporated Meagher County into the City of White Sulphur Springs, the
subdivider shall submit the proposal to the Administrator of the municipality
and the municipality shall proceed with review for annexation and subdivision.
         (b)   The municipality shall notify the County Administrator of the
proposed annexation and subdivision.
         (c)   The municipality shall coordinate subdivision and annexation
procedures to minimize duplication of hearings, reports, and other requirements
whenever possible.
         (d)   The municipality shall not make an official determination to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny a subdivision until the area of the
subdivision is annexed into the City or a formal intention to annex is adopted.
   (D)   Permission to enter. The City Council, Planning Board, Administrator,
or affected agencies identified during the pre-application meeting may
investigate, examine, and evaluate the site of the proposed subdivision to
verify information provided by the subdivider. The submission of a subdivision
application constitutes a grant of permission to enter for this purpose. This
consent also applies to members of the public attending any noticed public
meeting at the site of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.44 ELEMENT REVIEW.
   (A)   Process. Once the application is submitted to the Administrator, it is
reviewed to determine if it contains all of the required elements according to
the following process:
      (1)   A subdivision application is considered to be received on the date
of delivery to the Administrator with the required review fee, as adopted by
resolution of the City Council (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(1)(a)).
      (2)   Within five working days of receiving the application and review
fee, the Administrator shall determine if the application contains all of the
applicable materials (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(1)(b)).
      (3)   The Administrator's determination shall be based on whether the
required information is included in the application or is absent from the
application.
      (4)   The Administrator shall send written notice to the subdivider of
the determination. If the application is missing elements, the letter shall
identify the missing elements (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(1)(b)).
      (5)   The subdivider shall correct deficiencies and submit the required
elements.
      (6)   This process shall be repeated until the Administrator determines
the subdivider has submitted an application containing all the required
elements (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(3)), at which point the application moves forward
to sufficiency review.
      (7)   If the subdivider does not respond to a request for additional
information within six months of the issuance of the Administrator's letter
notifying the subdivider the application is incomplete, the Administrator may
send written notice via certified mail to the subdivider that the application
will be terminated if the items are not addressed within 30 days.
   (B)   Amendments to the application during element review. If the subdivider
alters the application during element review, the application will be reviewed
according to § 11.1.86. If not determined to be material, the application will
be reviewed according to §
11.1.44 , which triggers an additional five-day review period.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.45 SUFFICIENCY REVIEW.
   (A)   Process. Once the Administrator determines an application contains the
required elements, the Administrator reviews it according to the following
process to determine whether the information in the application is sufficient
to make a decision to approve the application, deny it, or approve it with
conditions:
      (1)   Within 15 working days after the Administrator determines that the
application contains all of the required elements, the Administrator shall
determine whether the application and required elements contain detailed,
supporting information that is sufficient to allow for the review of the
proposed subdivision under these regulations (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(2)(a)).
      (2)   The Administrator's determination shall be based upon whether there
is enough information in the application to determine whether the application
meets applicable design standards and if the subdivision's impacts on
agriculture, agricultural water user facilities, local services, the natural
environment, wildlife, wildlife habitat, and public health and safety and other
applicable review criteria can be effectively evaluated by the City of White
Sulphur Springs without substantial outstanding questions remaining.
      (3)   The Administrator shall send written notice to the subdivider of
the determination. If the application is insufficient, the letter shall
identify the deficiencies and information needed for a sufficient
application (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(2)).
      (4)   The subdivider shall correct deficiencies and submit the required
information.
      (5)   This process shall be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application that contains detailed, supporting information that is sufficient
to review the proposed subdivision under the provisions of these regulations
(M.C.A. § 76-3-604(3)).
      (6)   If the subdivider does not respond to a request for additional
information within six months of the issuance of the Administrator's letter,
the Administrator may send written notice via certified mail to the subdivider
that the application will be terminated if the items are not addressed within
30 days.
   (B)   Amendments to the application during sufficiency review. If the
subdivider alters the application during sufficiency review, the application
will be reviewed according to §
11.1.45 .
   (C)   Effect of determining an application sufficient.
      (1)   Decision timeframes. Once the application has been deemed
sufficient, the local government's statutory deadlines for a decision begin
(M.C.A. § 76-3-604(4)). The statutory deadlines differ depending upon the type
of subdivision and the number of lots. The first day of the time period begins
on the day after the written notice is sent to the subdivider stating that the
application is sufficient. The City Council's timeframe for decision to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application is as follows:
         (a)   Thirty five working days: Minor subdivisions (M.C.A. §§ 76-3-609
(2)(a) and (4)).
         (b)   Sixty working days: Major subdivisions with fewer than 50 lots
(M.C.A. § 76-3-604(4)).
         (c)   Eighty working days: Major subdivisions with 50 or more lots
(M.C.A. § 76-3-604(4)).
      (2)   Extensions or suspensions. The time period may be extended or
suspended by up to one year upon mutual consent of the subdivider and the
Administrator (M.C.A. § 76-3-604(4)(a)). Amending an application after it has
been determined sufficient constitutes the subdivider's consent to an extension
of the time period. The time period is also extended if a subsequent public
hearing is required.
      (3)   Additional copies. Once the application is declared sufficient by
the Administrator, the subdivider shall submit the following additional copies
of the application, including additional materials for element and sufficiency
reviews, to the Administrator:
         (a)   Minor subdivisions creating two lots. One electronic copy in PDF
format, and eight paper copies, each in a three-ring binder with tabs for each
section.
         (b)   Major subdivisions and minor subdivisions creating three to five
lots. One electronic copy in PDF format, and 15 paper copies, each in a three-
ring binder with tabs for each section.
   (D)   Additional information. A determination that an application contains
sufficient information for review as provided in this section does not
guarantee that the proposed subdivision will be approved or conditionally
approved by the City Council and does not limit the ability of the
Administrator, Planning Board, or the City Council to request additional
information during the review process.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.46 AGENCY COMMENTS.
   As part of the subdivider's preparation of the Preliminary Plat Application
under §
11.1.43 of these regulations, the subdivider shall solicit comments from the
public utilities, agencies and other entities identified by the Administrator
during the pre-application process under §
11.1.42. A list of agencies that the Administrator may use to create the list
is included as Administrative Materials K "List of Agencies for Contact", found
in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative Materials. Other agencies and
entities may be included on the pre-application list at the Administrator's
discretion. The purposes of the Administrator providing this list and for the
subdivider to solicit comments are: 1) to direct the subdivider to appropriate
entities that may have a stake in the subdivision, and 2) to ensure the
subdivider reasonably has opportunities to address the entities' concerns and
requirements during the early planning stages of the subdivision. All comments
received by the subdivider or City of White Sulphur Springs concerning a
subdivision proposal shall be incorporated into the subdivision files
maintained by the City.
   (A)   Agencies that may be contacted during preliminary plat review.
      (1)   The Administrator may contact the agencies identified during the
pre-application meeting according to §
11.1.42(B), or any other entity. If the Administrator contacts any entities
during the review process, the Administrator shall notify the subdivider of the
contact and the timeframe for response (M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(q)(iii)).
      (2)   The Planning Board and City Council may also contact the agencies
identified during the pre-application meeting according to §
11.1.42(B), or any other entity. If the Planning Board or City Council contact
additional entities during the review process, the Planning Board or City
Council, or Administrator on behalf of the Planning Board or City Council,
shall notify the subdivider of the contact and the timeframe for response
(M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(q)(iii)).
   (B)   Comments received.
      (1)   The Administrator shall provide the subdivider with copies of
comments received.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit copies of any other comments received,
including those from agencies and utilities, to the Administrator.
   (C)   Limitations of agency comment. As required by M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(i),
review and comment by public agencies, utilities or those with a substantial
interest may not delay the City Council's action on the subdivision application
beyond the review period. Failure of any agency to complete a review of an
application may not be a basis for rejection of the application by the City
Council.
   State or federal governmental entities that have been involved in an effort
to acquire or assist others in acquiring an interest in the real property of
the subdivision are required to disclose that information prior to submitting
comments, opinions, or information (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(9)).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.47 STAFF REPORT.
   This section discusses the report prepared by the Administrator to assess
the proposed subdivision for compliance with the regulations and how it relates
to the review criteria. The staff report is submitted to the Planning Board for
major subdivisions and minor subdivisions to create three to five lots and the
City Council for all subdivisions.
   (A)   Contents. The Administrator shall prepare a report evaluating the
proposed subdivision and any requested variances for compliance with these
regulations.
   The staff report shall contain:
      (1)   Any recommended conditions that should be applied to the
preliminary approval (see subsection (B), "Conditions of Approval" below)
including conditions to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and those
recommended for mitigation measures, or the reasons for any recommendation for
denial of the subdivision application and preliminary plat;
      (2)   Summary of the basis for the recommendation, including findings of
fact which describe factual evidence and analysis of compliance with submittal
requirements in §
11.1.81;
      (3)   Any applicable recommendations pertaining to any requested
variances (based on review criteria for variances in §
11.1.83) including any conditions of approval, and a summary of facts forming
the basis of the recommendation;
      (4)   A recommended time period within which the preliminary plat
approval will be in force, if approved, of not less than one calendar year or
more than three calendar years, and any recommendations regarding extensions
(refer to §
11.1.84 for review criteria for determining time periods and extensions)
(M.C.A. § 76-3-610(1)); and
      (5)   Copies of agency comments and public comments received (not
including those already in the subdivision application), including any public
comments regarding water and sanitation information.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. Based on the findings of fact, the staff
report may recommend conditions of approval. Conditions of approval must be
based on the review criteria in §
11.1.81 and each condition required for subdivision approval must identify a
specific, documentable, and clearly defined purpose or objective related to the
primary criteria set forth in M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3) that form the basis for the
condition.
   (C)   Timeframe for staff reports. The Administrator shall submit the staff
report to the subdivider and City Council or Planning Board at least seven days
prior to the public meeting or hearing.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.48 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   This section briefly describes general provisions for public comment with
more detail provided in other steps, primarily those related to Planning Board
and City Council review.
   (A)   Public information.
      (1)   Once the application is submitted to the Administrator, it is
public information.
      (2)   Public comment and comments from public utilities, government
agencies and others with a substantial interest in the subdivision are
essential components of the review of the application, staff report, Planning
Board recommendation, and City Council decision.
   (B)   Timing of comments. Although identified as a separate step in the
process, in fact, because applications are public information, various forms of
public review may occur at any time during the preliminary plat review process.
Establishing it as a separate step highlights the importance of these comments
but does not limit comment to one particular time period in the review process.
   Comments received from the public at any time after the application is
submitted will be included in the jurisdiction's files and records of the
subdivision. Comments will be considered in the staff report, Planning Board
recommendation, and City Council decision.
   (C)   Soliciting public comments. Major subdivisions shall have a public
hearing by the Planning Board. Such hearings shall be noticed as identified in
§
11.1.49 (B)(1) below. Public comment will be accepted at public hearings and
minutes taken.
   Meetings for review of minor subdivisions shall be noticed as public
meetings before the Planning Board and/or City Council. Notice of meetings
shall be posted at least 48 hours in advance. Public comment will be accepted
at public meetings.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.49 PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION.
   This section addresses how the Planning Board shall hold public meetings and
hearings in order to review and make recommendations regarding a subdivision
application. The Planning Board review only applies to major subdivisions and
minor subdivisions of three to five lots, having delegated its responsibilities
for two-lot minor subdivisions to the Administrator, as authorized under M.C.A.
§ 76-1-107(2).
   (A)   Planning Board materials. The Administrator shall forward the
application, staff report, agency comments, subdivider's preference for
mitigation and any public comments to the Planning Board at least seven days
prior to the scheduled meeting or hearing.
   (B)   Planning Board public hearing.
      (1)   Notice requirements. The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing
for all major subdivisions. The Administrator shall prepare the hearing notice
and post the notice as follows:
         (a)   Notice of the hearing must be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county not less than 15 days prior to
the date of the hearing (M.C.A. § 76-3-605(3)).
         (b)   The subdivider, each property owner of record whose property is
immediately adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat, and each
purchaser under contract for deed of property immediately adjoining the land
included in the preliminary plat must be notified of the hearing by registered
or certified mail not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing
(M.C.A. § 76-3-605(3)).
         (c)   The notices described above shall also include descriptions of
any requests for variances that are being considered with the application.
         (d)   At least 15 days prior to the public hearing, the Administrator
shall post in a conspicuous place on the proposed subdivision site and/or
adjacent right-of-way a notice of the meeting/hearing.
         (e)   In the event the Planning Board has completed the public hearing
but needs additional time for review or making a recommendation, the discussion
will follow the process for a meeting rather than a public hearing and the
meeting shall be noticed at least 48 hours in advance.
      (2)   Public hearing. The public hearing, held by the City/County
Planning Board, will be advertised as required by state law and these
regulations. The public hearing will be conducted at the time and place as
noticed, or it must be postponed and noticed again. According to the meeting
agenda, the public hearing is open for persons to speak for or against the
project, or to hear additional information from the applicant or the
Administrator. A time limit may be established for each speaker. The public is
encouraged to provide a factual basis for their support or opposition to a
proposed subdivision. See Appendix A for additional information about how
public hearings are to be conducted.
   (C)   Planning Board public meeting. The Planning Board shall review all
minor subdivision applications for three to five lots at an open public meeting
and make a recommendation to the governing body in accordance with § 11.4.51
below. Public notice in accordance with subsection (B)(1) above is not
required. Instead, the meeting shall be posted at least 48 hours in advance.
   (D)   Planning Board recommendation.
      (1)   Information to be considered. The Planning Board's recommendation
to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision shall be
based on review of the subdivision application, preliminary plat, applicable
environmental assessment, public comment, staff report, and other additional
information submitted or prepared in the review of the subdivision.
      (2)   Review criteria. The Planning Board shall base its recommendations
on the same review criteria the City Council uses to make its decision (see §
11.1.81 ); except that the Planning Board is making recommendations, and the
City Council is making decisions.
      (3)   Planning Board written recommendation. Within 10 working days after
Planning Board review, the Planning Board or Administrator working on behalf of
the Planning Board shall submit to the subdivider and the City Council the
following information in writing (M.C.A. § 76-3-605(4)):
         (a)   Recommendation for approval, conditional approval (including any
recommended conditions and/or mitigation measures), or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat. If the Planning Board recommends
conditional approval of the proposed subdivision, each condition required for
subdivision approval must identify a specific, documentable, and clearly
defined purpose or objective related to the primary criteria set forth in
M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3) that form the basis for the condition;
         (b)   Disclosure of any preferences for mitigation expressed by the
subdivider to the Planning Board;
         (c)   Recommended findings of fact based on review of the submittal
requirements and analysis of the impacts in the review criteria (see §
11.1.81);
         (d)   Recommendation for approval or denial of any requested variances
(based on review criteria for variances in §
11.1.81), including any proposed conditions for approval, and a statement
describing the facts and conditions upon which the approval, conditional
approval, or denial of the variance is based;
         (e)   Recommended time period of the preliminary plat approval of not
less than one calendar year or more than three calendar years, and any
recommendation regarding extensions (See §
11.1.84 for review criteria for determining time periods and extensions);
         (f)   Summary of public comments received, including any public
comments regarding water and sanitation information; and
         (g)   Staff report as altered by the Planning Board.
         (h)   The Administrator shall compile the items listed above after the
Planning Board hearing or meeting and submit them to the Planning Board chair
for approval. Once approved, the Administrator shall submit the package to the
City Council on behalf of the Planning Board within the 10-working day
deadline.
   (E)   Amended applications. If the subdivider amends the application prior
to the Planning Board public hearing for major subdivisions, or prior to the
City Council meeting for minor subdivisions, the procedures in §
11.1.85 (A) shall apply.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.50 NEW INFORMATION AFTER THE PLANNING BOARD HEARING.
   Only applicable to major subdivisions, this section explains what to do if
new information is submitted to the City Council after the Planning Board has
held its public hearing (M.C.A. § 76-3-615).
   (A)   Handling new information.
      (1)   If an amended application was not submitted to the subdivision
administrator following the public hearing, but relevant new information or
substantial changes to the design of the subdivision are presented to the City
Council following the Planning Board's public hearing regarding the proposed
major subdivision, the City Council shall determine whether public comments or
other information presented constitute relevant, new information or a
substantial change to the design of the subdivision which would have a
substantial effect on the City Council's consideration of the subdivision
application and constitutes the need for a subsequent public hearing.
      (2)   If the City Council determines that the information presented
constitutes the information described in subsection (A)(1) above, the City
Council may:
         (a)   Approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision
without basing its decision on the new information if the City Council
determines that the new information is either irrelevant or not credible or the
change to the design of the subdivision does not substantially impact the
analysis of potentially significant adverse impacts; or
         (b)   Schedule or direct its agent or agency to schedule a subsequent
public hearing for consideration of only the new information including a
substantial change to the design of the subdivision for purposes of considering
its findings of fact and conclusions and any proposed conditions of approval in
light of the new information that the City Council will rely on in making its
decision on the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Subsequent public hearing.
      (1)   If directed by the City Council pursuant to Subsection (A) above,
the Planning Board shall hold a subsequent public hearing for consideration of
new information (M.C.A. § 76-3-615(4)).
         (a)   At the subsequent hearing, the Planning Board shall consider
only the new relevant information or substantial change to the design of the
subdivision that may have an impact on the findings of fact and conditions of
approval that will have a substantial effect on the City Council's
consideration of the application.
      (2)   If a subsequent public hearing is held pursuant to subsection (B)
(1), it must be held within 45 days of the City Council's determination to
schedule a subsequent hearing.
         (a)   Notice of the time, date and location of the subsequent hearing
shall be posted according to §
11.1.49(B) of these regulations.
      (3)   If a subsequent public hearing is held, the applicable review
period is suspended as of the date of the City Council's decision to schedule a
subsequent hearing. The applicable review period resumes on the date of the
subsequent public hearing.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.51 CITY COUNCIL DECISION.
   (A)   City Council materials. The Administrator shall forward the
application, staff report, agency comments, subdivider's preference for
mitigation, public comments, and the Planning Board materials to the City
Council.
   Any comments and documents regarding the subdivision application received
prior to the City Council meeting shall be submitted to the Administrator. The
Administrator shall forward the comments and documents to the City Council and
the subdivider prior to the public meeting.
   (B)   Information to be considered. The City Council's decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision shall be based on
review of the subdivision application, preliminary plat, applicable
environmental assessment, public hearing, public comment, Planning Board
recommendations, staff report, and other additional information submitted or
prepared in the review of the subdivision.
   (C)   Review criteria. The basis for the City Council's decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision shall be based on the
criteria in §
11.1.81 .
   (D)   Decision on variances. If a variance is requested, the City Council
shall review the request for compliance with the criteria in §
11.1.83 , taking into consideration the request for variance and information
submitted by the subdivider to support the request, public comment, Planning
Board recommendation, staff report or additional information. The City Council
should review the request for variance prior to finalizing a decision on the
subdivision application because the decision on the variance may affect aspects
of the subdivision.
   (E)   Subdivider's preference for mitigation. The City Council must consult
with the subdivider and give due weight and consideration to the subdivider's
expressed preferences for mitigation. (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(5)(b)) The City
Council is not, however, required to accept the subdivider's preferred
mitigation (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(5)(a)). Any acceptable mitigation must reduce
negative impacts to acceptable levels. If the subdivider's preference for
mitigation appears to result in a substantial change in the application, it
shall be reviewed according to §§ 
11.1.44  and
11.1.45 .
   (F)   City Council's written statement. Pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(r),
the City Council must provide the subdivider a letter summarizing the decision
and materials supporting the decision within 30 working days of the decision.
The letter and materials shall include the following:
      (1)   The decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
subdivision, dated and with appropriate signature of the City Council. If the
City Council conditionally approves the proposed subdivision, each condition
required for subdivision approval must identify a specific, documentable,and
clearly defined purpose or objective related to the primary criteria set forth
in M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3) that form the basis for the condition;
      (2)   Conditions that apply to preliminary plat approval that must be
satisfied before the final plat may be approved;
      (3)   Effective time period of the preliminary plat approval of not less
than one calendar year or more than three calendar years, and any requirements
regarding extensions;
      (4)   Decision for approval or denial of any requested variances (based
on review criteria for variances in §
11.1.83), including any proposed conditions for approval, and a statement
describing the facts and conditions upon which the approval, conditional
approval, or denial of the variance is based;
      (5)   Information on the appeal process for denial or imposition of
conditions;
      (6)   Findings of fact that weigh the review criteria;
      (7)   Identification of the regulations and statutes that were used in
reaching the decision to deny or impose conditions, and an explanation of how
they apply to the decision to deny or impose conditions;
      (8)   Any public comments related to water and sanitation that have not
already been submitted to the subdivider; and
      (9)   Notice to the subdivider that public comments related to water and
sanitation must be included as part of the application for sanitation approval
(as required by M.C.A. § 76-3-604(7)(b)).
      (10)   The Administrator shall compile all required components of the
letter for approval and signature(s) by the City Council.
   (G)   Appeals (M.C.A. § 76-3-625).
      (1)   A person who has filed with the City Council an application for a
subdivision under this chapter may bring an action in district court to sue the
City Council to recover actual damages caused by a final action, decision, or
order of the governing body or a regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter
within 180 days of the final action, decision, order, or adoption of a
regulation. The City Council's decision, based on the record as a whole, must
be sustained unless the decision being challenged is arbitrary, capricious, or
unlawful.
      (2)   A party identified in subsection (5) below who is aggrieved by a
decision of the City Council to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an
application and preliminary plat for a proposed subdivision may, within 30 days
from the date of the written decision, appeal to the district court in the
county in which the property involved is located to challenge the approval,
imposition of conditions, or denial of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   A party identified in subsection (5) below who is aggrieved by any
other final decision of the governing body regarding a subdivision may, within
30 days from the date of the written decision, appeal to the district court in
the county in which the property involved is located to challenge the decision.
      (4)   Any petition for appeal must specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is made. The governing body's decision, based on the record as a whole,
must be sustained unless the decision being challenged is arbitrary,
capricious, or unlawful.
      (5)   The following parties may appeal under the provisions of
subsections (2), (3) and (4) above:
         (a)   The subdivider;
         (b)   A landowner with a property boundary contiguous to the proposed
subdivision or a private landowner with property within the county or
municipality where the subdivision is proposed if that landowner can show a
likelihood of material injury to the landowner's property or its value;
         (c)   The county commissioners of the county where the subdivision is
proposed; and
         (d)   1.   A first-class municipality, as described in M.C.A. § 7-1-
4111, if a subdivision is proposed within three miles of its limits;
            2.   A second-class municipality, as described in M.C.A. § 7-1-
4111, if a subdivision is proposed within 2 miles of its limits; and
            3.   A third-class municipality or a town, as described in M.C.A. §
7-1-4111, if a subdivision is proposed within 1 mile of its limits.
      (6)   For the purposes of this section, "aggrieved" means a person who
can demonstrate a specific personal and legal interest, as distinguished from a
general interest, who has been or is likely to be specially and injuriously
affected by the decision.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
PHASED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 11.1.60 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   A subdivider applying for phased development review shall submit with
the phased development application an overall phased development preliminary
plat on which independent platted development phases must be presented (76-3-
617, MCA). The phased development application must contain the information
required pursuant to §
11.1.43 of these regulations and this section for all phases of a development
and a schedule for when the subdivider plans to submit for review each phase of
the development.
   The subdivider may change the schedule for review of each phase of the
development upon approval of the City Council after a public hearing as
provided below in Subsection (c) if the change does not negate conditions of
approval or otherwise adversely affect public health, safety, and welfare.
      (1)   The phased development application must be reviewed in conformity
with §§
11.1.40 through
11.1.51 and
11.1.60 of these regulations. In addition, each phase of the phased development
must be reviewed as provided below in subsections (A)(3) and (A)(4).
      (2)   The City Council may approve phased developments that extend beyond
the time limits set forth in these regulations, but all phases of the phased
development must be submitted for review and approved, conditionally approved,
or denied within 20 years of the date the overall phased development
preliminary plat is approved by the governing body.
      (3)   For any phase of the approved subdivision submitted for final plat
approval within five years after the date of preliminary approval of the
subdivision, no further public hearing is required before submittal for final
plat approval. Final plat approval shall be in accordance with §§
11.1.71 and
11.1.72.
      (4)   For any phase of the approved subdivision submitted for final plat
approval more than five years after the date of preliminary plat approval of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide written notice to the governing
body not more than 1 year or less than 90 calendar days in advance of
submitting the final plat application and the City Council shall hold a public
hearing pursuant to §
11.1.49 within 30 working days after receipt of the written notice from the
subdivider.
      (5)   At the public hearing the City Council shall determine whether
changed circumstances justify amending any conditions of approval. The City
Council may amend or impose additional conditions of approval only if it
determines, based on a review of the primary criteria, that the existing
conditions of approval are inadequate to mitigate the potential significant
adverse impacts during the original review based on changed circumstances.
      (6)   The City Council shall issue supplemental written findings of fact
within 20 working days of the hearing.
      (7)   Any additional conditions must be met before final plat approval
for each remaining phase and the approval in accordance with §§
11.1.70 through
11.1.72 is in force for not more than three calendar years or less than one
calendar year within the maximum time frame provided above in subsection (A)
(2).
      (8)   The governing body may impose a reasonable periodic fee, as adopted
by resolution of the City Council, for the review under Subsection (c), above,
of the phases in the phased development.
      (9)   Modifications to an approved phasing development plan prior to
final plat approval shall be reviewed according to the procedures in §
11.1.85.
      (10)   Figure 5: Flowchart for the review process of all Final Plats, as
referenced herein was adopted as laid out in full and by this reference may be
found and is available for viewing in the offices at City Hall or through the
City website.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
FINAL PLATS2
§ 11.1.70 FINAL PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Timing of submittal. The final plat application including all fees and
supplementary documents must be submitted to the Administrator at least 30
working days prior to the expiration of preliminary plat approval (see Figure 3
for the review process for all final plats, and as referenced herein was
adopted as laid out in full and by this reference may be found and is available
for viewing in the offices at City Hall or through the City website).
   A final plat application is not considered to be submitted to and received
by the Administrator until delivered to the Administrator accompanied by all
required review fees, as adopted by resolution of the City Council (M.C.A. §
76-3-611(3)).
   (B)   Submittal requirements. To file for final plat approval, a Final Plat
Application form (see Administrative Materials E, "Subdivision Final Plat
Application", found in Appendix B), and all supplementary documents, must be
submitted to the Administrator. The submittal shall include the following, as
applicable:
      (1)   The final plat application;
      (2)   The final plat review fee, as adopted by resolution of the City
Council;
      (3)   A statement outlining how each condition of approval has been
satisfied;
      (4)   A subdivision guarantee dated no older than 30 calendar days prior
to the date of submittal of the final plat application;
      (5)   Certification from the Meagher County Treasurer that all real
property taxes and special assessments assessed and levied on the land to be
subdivided have been paid. (For example, see Administrative Materials F,
"Sample Certificates");
      (6)   A signed, dated, and notarized statement from each landowner, if
different from the subdivider, and each lien holder or claimant of record
consenting to the platting of the subdivision dated no older than 30 calendar
days prior to the date of submittal;
      (7)   The DEQ and/or local health department/sanitarian approval;
      (8)   The final grading and drainage plan and engineering plans,
including street plans and profiles (as required) and engineer certification(s)
of improvements that have been installed, as necessary;
      (9)   Any maintenance agreements, declarations of covenants, and property
owner association documents, including bylaws;
      (10)   A certificate of dedication of any public improvements, rights-of-
way, and easements;
      (11)   A copy of the approved state highway permits when a new road or
driveway will intersect with a state highway;
      (12)   When required, a weed management plan approved by the County Weed
Department, along with a description of what measures have been taken to
implement the plan and fight noxious weed infestations;
      (13)   As applicable, the deed to be recorded with the final plat to
transfer parkland and any other public dedications to the City of White Sulphur
Springs;
      (14)   A subdivision improvements agreement, financial guarantee and
supporting documentation securing the future construction for all incomplete
improvements to be installed (if applicable). See also §
11.1.95(3) and Administrative Materials G, "Model Subdivision Improvements
Agreement and Instructions, Examples of Forms of Improvements Guarantees",
found in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative Materials;
      (15)   One 11" x 17" and four 24" x 36" versions (two mylar and two
paper) of the final plat, completed in accordance with the Uniform Standards
for Final Subdivision Plats as hereby adopted by the City Council and as
required by the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office; and
      (16)   Any other information or documents required by the preliminary
plat approval letter.
   (C)   Administrator review. The purpose of this subsection (C) is to provide
for a review by the Administrator prior to review by the City Council to ensure
that the final plat conforms to the conditions of approval set forth on the
preliminary plat and to the terms of these regulations and the MSPA prior to
final plat approval. To fulfill that purpose, the Administrator shall complete
a review of the final plat application according to M.C.A. § 76-3-611 and the
following:
      (1)   Within 20 working days of the application being submitted, the
Administrator shall complete a review of the final plat and supplemental
documents to ensure that all conditions and requirements for final plat
approval have been met.
      (2)   Final plat applications will not be considered complete by the
Administrator until information has been submitted demonstrating how all
conditions of preliminary approval have been satisfied. If the application is
not complete, the Administrator shall notify the subdivider or, with the
subdivider's written permission, the subdivider's agent of the determination in
writing within 20 working days of the application being submitted. In the
written notification, the Administrator shall identify the
defects in the final plat submittal. The Administrator shall not schedule a
meeting with the City Council until the application is complete.
      (3)   The Administrator, working on behalf of the City Council per these
regulations, may require that final subdivision plats be reviewed for errors
and omissions in calculation or drafting by an examining land surveyor before
recording with the Clerk and Recorder. When the survey data shown on the plat
meets the conditions pursuant to these regulations, the examining surveyor
shall certify the compliance in a printed or stamped signed certificate on the
plat. If the Administrator, working on behalf of the City Council, determines
that an examining land surveyor must review the final plat and hasn't done so
prior to the final plat application being submitted, the Administrator shall
identify this requirement in its notification.
      (4)   If the Administrator determines the final plat differs materially
from the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat, or conditions are
demonstrated as not satisfied, the subdivider shall be required to submit
amendments pursuant to §
11.1.72, or is required to correct final plat materials or furnish more
information in accordance with preliminary plat approval.
      (5)   If the subdivider subsequently resubmits a final plat and/or
supplemental information, the 20 working day time limits provided in
subsections (C)(1) and (2) above apply to each submission of the final plat,
fees, or supplemental information until a written determination is made that
the final plat contains the information required for final plat approval and
the subdivider or subdivider's agent is notified.
      (6)   Once the Administrator determines that the final plat application
contains the information required for final plat review and action by the City
Council, the Administrator shall schedule a meeting on the final plat with the
City Council and the City Council shall review and approve or deny the final
plat within 20 working days of that determination. The Administrator shall
forward the applicable material to the City Council for review in advance of
the meeting.
      (7)   The subdivider or the subdivider's agent and the City Council or
Administrator may mutually agree to extend the review periods provided for in
this section.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.71 CITY COUNCIL DECISION.
   (A)   City Council review. The City Council will consider the final plat at
a meeting for which notice has been posted at least two full working days prior
to the meeting:
      (1)   The City Council shall review the final plat according to the
review criteria in §§
11.1.70 through
11.1.72.
      (2)   If the final plat is approved, the City Council shall certify its
approval on the face of the final plat. When applicable, a certificate of the
City Council's acceptance of any dedicated land, easements, or improvements
shall be filed on the face of the final plat and/or on documents that accompany
the final plat for recording.
      (3)   If the final plat is denied for non-compliance with the conditional
approval, the MSPA, or these regulations, the City Council shall write a letter
for the public record stating the reason(s) for denial and forward a copy to
the subdivider. The City Council will return the final plat to the subdivider
within 10 working days of the action. The subdivider may then make any
necessary corrections to the plat or steps necessary to conform to the
conditional approval and resubmit the final plat application for approval. The
re-submission of the final plat application must still be submitted and
approved within the preliminary plat approval period, original or extended.
   (B)   Filing the final plat. After receiving approval, the final plat may
not be altered prior to recording. The Meagher County Clerk and Recorder may
not accept any plat for filing that does not bear the City Council's approval
in proper form or a plat that has been altered after final plat approval. The
Clerk and Recorder may file an approved plat only if it is accompanied by the
documents specified in the Montana Uniform Standards for Final Subdivision
Plats, which are hereby adopted by reference in latest form and as may be
amended from time to time. When the final plat and associated materials are
delivered to the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office, a letter from the
City of White Sulphur Springs must accompany the materials and acknowledge that
the final plat may be recorded. The letter should include a list of items that
the City Council requires to be recorded with the final plat.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.72 AMENDING FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Submittal requirements. If the subdivider or subsequent lot owner
proposes to change the subdivision after final plat approval, the proponent
shall submit the proposed changes to the Administrator for review. The request
to amend a final plat must contain the following.
      (1)   Review fee, as adopted by resolution of the City Council;
      (2)   Narrative summary. Summary of the proposed changes, reason for the
changes, and howthey differ from what was previously submitted; and
      (3)   Revisions to plat, site plan, other documents. If the changes
affect the plat, site plan orother documents previously submitted, these shall
be included and identified as "Amended" in their title,along with the date of
amendment.
   (B)   Administrator review. Within five working days of receiving the
proposed changes, theAdministrator shall review the changes pursuant to §
11.1.87 .
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
SUBDIVISION REVIEW CRITERIA AND APPLICATION AMENDMENT PROCEDURES
§ 11.1.80 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   This chapter addresses review criteria for the following:
      (1)   Approval, conditional approval, or denial of preliminary plats;
      (2)   Final plats;
      (3)   Variances;
      (4)   Extensions of preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   This chapter also addresses the amendment procedures for the
following:
      (1)   Amending preliminary plat applications;
      (2)   Amending preliminary plat approvals after final plat.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.81 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL, CONDITIONAL APPROVAL, OR DENIAL OF PRELIMINARY
PLAT APPLICATIONS.
   This section below describes the information to be considered by the City
Council in making a decision. It also describes the information to be
considered by the Administrator and Planning Board when making a
recommendation.
   (A)   Information to be considered. In order to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the proposed subdivision the City Council shall review the
subdivision application, preliminary plat, applicable environmental assessment,
public hearing, public comment, Planning Board recommendations, staff report,
and other additional information submitted or prepared in the review of the
subdivision.
   (B)   Review criteria. The basis for the City Council's decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny a proposed subdivision is whether the
subdivision application, preliminary plat, applicable environmental assessment,
public hearing, Planning Board recommendations, or additional information
demonstrates that development of the proposed subdivision meets the
requirements of M.C.A.§ 76-3-608 and the criteria below. The City Council may
not deny approval of a proposed subdivision based solely on the subdivision's
impacts on educational services or based solely on parcels within the
subdivision having been designated as wildland-urban interface parcels under
M.C.A. § 76-13-145. The City Council decision shall reflect the following
criteria:
      (1)   Impacts to agriculture, agricultural water user facilities, local
services, natural environment, wildlife, wildlife habitat, and public health
and safety (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)(a)). The City Council shall identify any
impacts it determines to be potentially significant and adverse to agriculture,
agricultural water user facilities, local services, natural environment,
wildlife, wildlife habitat, and public health and safety. A description of
these criteria may be found in the adopted City of White Sulphur Springs Growth
Policy, as required by M.C.A. § 76-1-601(3)(h). The impacts must be specific,
documentable, and clearly defined per M.C.A. § 76-3-608 (3)(a).
      (2)   Survey requirements (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)(b)(i)). The subdivision
shall comply with survey requirements in the Uniform Standards for Final
Subdivision Plats.
      (3)   Compliance with local subdivision regulations (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)
(b)(ii)). The review is based on the subdivision regulations in place at the
time the application is determined to contain sufficient information for
review. In addition, the subdivision regulations require compliance with local
zoning and other applicable regulations. The considerations are:
         (a)   Compliance with the Design Standards in §§
11.1.95 through
11.1.101 is required, except as provided by these regulations (e.g., through
variance requests and approval per the criteria).
         (b)   Special provisions for RV and mobile home parks. RV and mobile
home parks shall meet the additional design standards and requirements
primarily included in §§
11.1.95 through
11.1.101.
         (c)   All subdivisions must demonstrate they are designed to comply
with applicable zoning.
         (d)   All subdivisions shall demonstrate compliance with other
applicable regulations, such as the ARMs for sanitation and water supply,
public health ordinances, floodplain regulations, etc.
         (e)   Subdivisions should demonstrate conformance to adopted plans,
such as the growth policy, transportation plans, capital improvements plans,
pre-disaster mitigation plans or community wildfire protection plans. Because
plans are not regulatory, no variance for non-conformance shall be required,
nor can denial or a condition of approval be based solely on plan conformance.
      (4)   Subdivision review procedure (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(3)(b)(iii)). All
subdivisions shall demonstrate compliance with the subdivision review
procedure, based on the subdivision regulations in place at the time the
application is determined to contain sufficient information for review. The
record shall demonstrate that the process and timelines in §§
11.1.40  through
11.1.51  were followed.
      (5)   Utility easements (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(c)). The subdivision shall
provide easements within and to the proposed subdivision for the location and
installation of any planned utilities.
      (6)   Legal and physical access (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(d)). All subdivisions
shall provide legal and physical access to each lot within the proposed
subdivision and the required notation of that access on the applicable plat and
any instrument of transfer containing the parcel.
   (C)   Requiring reasonable mitigation. The City Council may require the
subdivider to design the proposed subdivision through conditions of preliminary
plat approval to reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse impacts
identified through evaluation of the review criteria identified in §
11.1.81 . (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(4)). The City Council shall issue written findings
to justify the reasonable mitigation required (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(4)). When
requiring mitigation, the City Council shall consult with the subdivider and
shall give due weight and consideration to the expressed preference of the
subdivider (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(5)).
   (D)   Cause for denial. In reviewing a proposed subdivision and when
requiring mitigation, a City Council may not unreasonably restrict a
landowner's ability to develop land, but it is recognized that in some
instances the unmitigated impacts of a proposed development may be unacceptable
and will preclude approval of the subdivision (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(5)).
   (E)   Special consideration of water and sanitation information. The City
Council may conditionally approve or deny a proposed subdivision as a result of
the water and sanitation information provided pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-622 or
public comment received pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-604 or the information
provided pursuant to M.C.A. 76-3-622 only if the conditional approval or denial
is based on existing subdivision, zoning, or other regulations that the City
Council has the authority to enforce (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(6)).
   (F)   Additional provisions.
      (1)   Waiver of right to protest. A City Council may not require as a
condition of subdivision approval that a property owner waive a right to
protest the creation of a special improvement district ora rural improvement
district for capital improvement projects that does not identify the specific
capital improvements for which protest is being waived. A waiver of the right
to protest shall not be valid fora time period longer than 20 years after the
date that the final subdivision plat is filed with the county clerk and
recorder (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(7)).
      (2)   Well isolation zone. A City Council may not approve a proposed
subdivision if any of the features and improvements of the subdivision encroach
onto adjoining private property in a manner that is not otherwise provided for
under M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 3 or Chapter 4 or if the well isolation zone of
any proposed well to be drilled for the proposed subdivision encroaches onto
adjoining private property unless the owner of the private property authorizes
the encroachment. The term "well isolation zone" has the meaning provided in
M.C.A. § 76-4-102 (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(8)).
      (3)   Federal or state comment. If a federal or state governmental entity
submits a written or oral comment or an opinion regarding wildlife, wildlife
habitat, or the natural environment relating to a subdivision application for
the purpose of assisting a City Council's review, the comment or opinion may be
included in the City Council's written statement under M.C.A. § 76-3-620 only
if the comment or opinion provides scientific information or a published study
that supports the comment or opinion. A governmental entity that is or has been
involved in an effort to acquire or assist others in acquiring an interest in
the real property identified in the subdivision application shall disclose that
the entity has been involved in that effort prior to submitting a comment, an
opinion, or information (M.C.A.§ 76-3-608(9)).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.82 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Information to be considered. The City Council's decision to approve
or deny the final plat application shall be based on review of the conditions
of approval for the preliminary plat; final plat application submitted by the
subdivider, including the final plat and supplements; the Administrator's
written report; review of any legal agreements or contracts by the City
Attorney or legal staff; and other additional information submitted or prepared
in the review of the final plat application.
   (B)   Review criteria. Final plats shall not be approved for filing unless
the subdivision final plat application demonstrates compliance with the
following criteria:
      (1)   There shall be no material changes to the preliminary plat and
related materials unless approved under §§
11.1.40 through
11.1.51 of these regulations.
      (2)   The subdivision shall conform to the conditions of approval set
forth on the preliminary plat, to the terms of the MSPA, and these regulations,
which have been adopted pursuant to the MSPA (M.C.A. § 76-3-611(1)(a)).
      (3)   The subdivider shall submit with the final plat a subdivision
guarantee dated within 30 days prior to date of final plat submittal. The
subdivision guarantee shall show the names of owners of record and names of
lienholders or claimants of record and the written consent to the subdivision
by the owners of the land, if other than the subdivider, and any lienholders or
claimants of record (M.C.A.§ 76-3-612).
      (4)   All improvements required to be installed by final plat approval
shall be completed and approved and/or certified. Improvements that are not
essential to public health and safety may be secured with a Subdivision
Improvements Agreement (SIA) and financial guarantee. (For example, see
Administrative Materials G, "Model Subdivision Improvements Agreement and
Instructions, Examples of Forms of Improvements Guarantees", found in Appendix
B: Supplemental Administrative Materials)
      (5)   The final plat shall include the County Treasurer's certification
that all real property taxes and special assessments assessed and levied on the
land have been paid (M.C.A. § 76-3-611(1)(b)). (For an example, see
Administrative Materials F, "Sample Certificates", found in Appendix B:
Supplemental Administrative Materials).
      (6)   The City Council may require the final subdivision plat to be
reviewed for errors and omissions in calculation or drafting by an examining
land surveyor before recording with the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder. No
final plat that has been examined per this section shall be recorded unless the
plat includes a certificate of compliance signed by the examining land surveyor
(M.C.A. § 76-3-611(2)(a)).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.83 VARIANCES.
   This section explains how to process variances and the criteria they shall
be reviewed by.
   (A)   Variances authorized. The City Council may grant variances from §§
11.1.95  through
11.1.101 , Design Standards, of these regulations when due to the
characteristics of land proposed for subdivision, strict compliance with these
standards would result in undue hardship and would not be essential to the
public welfare (M.C.A. § 76-3-506).
   (B)   Submittal requirements. The subdivider shall include in the
preliminary plat application a Subdivision Variance Application and fees for
each subdivision design standard that the proposed subdivision does not meet.
The preliminary plat application shall include (for each variance request):
      (1)   Review fee, as adopted by resolution of the City Council;
      (2)   Completed variance application form (See Administrative Materials
L, "Variance Request Form", found in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative
Materials);
      (3)   Explanation of the design standard(s) pertaining to the variance
request; and
      (4)   A summary of the reason for the variance request addressing each of
the review criteria.
   (C)   Review criteria. The subdivider has the burden to prove the strict
application of these regulations would result in an undue hardship upon the
subdivider of the property according to the following:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare or injurious to other adjoining properties;
      (2)   Due to the physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the property involved, strict compliance with the regulations
will impose an undue hardship on the owner. Undue hardship does not include
personal or financial hardship, or any hardship that is self-imposed;
      (3)   The variance will not cause a substantial increase in public costs;
and
      (4)   The variance will not place the subdivision in nonconformance with
any adopted zoning regulations.
   (D)   City Council decision. The City Council shall review each variance
request to the review criteria in §
11.1.83 . The City Council will not grant any variance to the requirements of §
11.1.96 C (Flood Hazards) of these regulations.
      (1)   Conditions. In granting variances, the City Council may impose
reasonable conditions to secure the objectives of these regulations.
      (2)   Findings of fact. Upon granting any variance, the City Council
shall provide a description of the variance and the facts and conditions upon
which the issuance of the variance and any conditions of its approval is based.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.84 EXTENSIONS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Information to be considered. In considering whether to grant an
extension to the approval period of an approved preliminary plat, the City
Council shall consider the reasons for the request as explained in the
subdivider's written request for extension and recommendations from the
Administrator. The written request for extension must be received no later than
30 days prior to the end of the preliminary plat approval period.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   Significant changes in regulations. The City Council shall not
issue extensions if the subdivision regulations or other relevant regulations
(e.g., zoning or DEQ requirements) have changed significantly since preliminary
plat approval. Significant changes constitute those that would render the
subdivision non-compliant with design standards or where current mitigation
requirements are more stringent than when the subdivision received approval.
      (2)   Maximum time for each extension. Extensions shall be for no longer
than three-year increments (M.C.A. § 76-3-610).
   (C)   Extensions to be in writing. At the end of the preliminary plat
approval period, the City Council may, at the request of the subdivider, extend
its approval for a mutually agreed-upon period of time, not to exceed three
years from the previous approval period. Any mutually agreed-upon extension
must be in writing and dated and signed by the members of the City Council and
the subdivider or subdivider's agent (M.C.A. § 76-3-610).
   (D)   Additional conditions; limitations. Except as provided in M.C.A. § 76-
3-507, after the preliminary plat application is approved, the City Council,
city boards, and city staff may not impose any additional conditions as a
prerequisite to final plat approval if the approval is obtained within the
original or extended approval period as provided herein (M.C.A. § 76-3-610(2)).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.85 AMENDING PRELIMINARY PLATS AND APPLICATION MATERIALS.
   (A)   Amending preliminary plat or application materials before Planning
Board hearing or City Council meeting. This section is applicable to any
changes made to an application after it is determined to be sufficient for
review but before Planning Board review for major subdivisions, and before the
City Council meeting for minor subdivisions. If changes are made to a major
subdivision application following the Planning Board public hearing, see
subsection (B) below. If changes are made to minor subdivisions or major
subdivisions following the City Council's decision, see subsection (C).
   If changes are made to a subdivision application or preliminary plat prior
Planning Board review of major subdivisions and before the City Council meeting
for minor subdivisions, the Administrator shall review the changes in the
following manner:
      (1)   Within five working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the Administrator shall determine whether the changes to the
subdivision application or preliminary plat are material, as determined in §
11.1.86.
      (2)   The applicable review period is suspended while the Administrator
considers the amended application or preliminary plat.
      (3)   If the Administrator determines the changes are not material, the
applicable review period resumes when the Administrator mails notice of the
decision to the subdivider.
      (4)   If the Administrator determines the changes are material, the
Administrator shall either require the subdivider to schedule a new pre-
application meeting and resubmit the application and preliminary plat as a new
subdivision application or proceed with the review period upon confirmation
that the application has the required elements and is sufficient for review.
   (B)   Amending preliminary plat or application materials following the
planning board hearing. This section is applicable only to changes made to
major subdivisions following the Planning Board hearing but before the City
Council decision. If changes are made to a subdivision application or
preliminary plat, the Administrator shall review the changes in the following
manner:
      (1)   Make a determination if the material is considered new information
and if a subsequent hearing will be required according to §
11.1.86; and
      (2)   Within five working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the Administrator shall determine whether the changes to the
subdivision application or preliminary plat are material, as determined in §
11.1.86.
      (3)   The applicable review period is suspended while the Administrator
considers the amended application or preliminary plat.
      (4)   If the Administrator determines the changes are not material
according to §
11.1.86 and not new information according to §
11.1.50, the applicable review period resumes when the Administrator mails
notice of the decision to the subdivider.
      (5)   If the Administrator determines the changes are not material
according to §
11.1.86 but constitutes new information, follow the procedures in §
11.1.111 to determine if a subsequent hearing is required.
      (6)   If the Administrator determines the changes are material according
to §
11.1.86, the Administrator shall either require the subdivider to schedule a
new pre-application meeting and resubmit the application and preliminary plat
as a new subdivision application, or proceed with a subsequent public hearing
in according to §
11.1.50 upon confirmation from the Administrator that the application has the
required elements and is sufficient for review.
   (C)   Amending an approved preliminary plat or application materials after
preliminary approval. If the subdivider proposes to change the preliminary plat
(or application materials, including any changes that result from the proposed
amendment, as well as necessary changes to conditions of approval) after the
preliminary plat approval but before the final plat approval, the subdivider
shall submit the proposed changes to the Administrator for review. The
Administrator shall review the changes as follows:
      (1)   Within five working days of receiving the proposed changes, the
Administrator shall determine whether the changes to the preliminary plat are
material pursuant to §
11.1.86.
      (2)   If the Administrator determines the changes are material, the
Administrator may either require review by the Planning Board for majors or
three to five lot minors, or a meeting with the City Council for minors.
      (3)   If the changes are extensive, the Administrator may require the
subdivider to begin the subdivision review process again, starting with the
pre-application meeting, and require payment of a new application fee.
   (D)   Amending conditions of preliminary plat approval. Any change,
amendment or modification that necessitates an amendment to any condition of
preliminary plat approval shall be processed according to this section. If the
subdivider and Administrator determine that a condition of approval is illegal
or impossible to comply with due to circumstances outside the subdivider's
control, the condition may be reviewed by the City Council through a properly
noticed public meeting or hearing, as applicable, in order to determine if the
condition may be waived or amended. For the amendment(s) to be considered under
this subsection (D), the subdivider must submit factual information to support
a claim that a condition of approval is illegal or impossible to meet.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.86 DETERMINING A MATERIAL CHANGE.
   (A)   Changes to a preliminary plat application. Change(s) made to a
preliminary plat application may be considered material if:
      (1)   it is determined to impact the element review or sufficiency review
of the preliminary plat application under §§
11.1.44 and
11.1.45 of these regulations.
      (2)   It has a specific, documentable, and clearly defined impact on the
primary review criteria in §
11.1.81.
      (3)   It brings the proposal out of conformance with the zoning or the
design standards in these regulations.
      (4)   It impacts the accuracy of other information provided in support of
a preliminary plat application.
      (5)   It changes any of the following information:
         (a)   The configuration or number of lots;
         (b)   Required or proposed park land or open spaces;
         (c)   Water and/or wastewater treatment system proposals;
         (d)   Easement provisions, access, and streets; and
         (e)   Proposed land uses or covenants only if they directly and
materially impact a condition of subdivision approval.
   (B)   Changes to an approved preliminary plat. Change(s) made to an approved
preliminary plat application may be considered material if:
      (1)   They impact the configuration or number of lots;
      (2)   They impact required or proposed park land or open spaces;
      (3)   They impact the water and/or wastewater treatment system proposals;
      (4)   They impact the easement provisions, access, and streets
      (5)   They impact an approved variance;
      (6)   They impact the proposed land uses or covenants only if they
directly and materially impact a condition of subdivision approval; or
      (7)   They impact the conditions of approval.
   (C)   Administrative appeals. A subdivider whose subdivision application or
preliminary plat has been deemed materially changed by the Administrator may
appeal the Administrator's decision to the City Council. The subdivider may
request a public meeting with the City Council for minor subdivisions, or a
public hearing with the City Council for major subdivisions and may submit
additional evidence to show that the changes to the preliminary plat are not
material.
      (1)   The applicable review period is suspended until the City Council
decision on the appeal is made.
      (2)   If the City Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are material, the City Council shall either require the subdivider to schedule
a new pre-application meeting and resubmit the application and preliminary plat
as a new subdivision application, or proceed with a subsequent public hearing
in according to §
11.1.50(B) upon confirmation from the Administrator that the application has
the required elements and is sufficient for review.
      (3)   If the City Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are not material, the applicable review period resumes as of the date of the
decision.
      (4)   By appealing the decision of the Administrator, the subdivider
agrees to suspension of the applicable review period.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.87 AMENDING FINAL PLAT APPROVALS.
   (A)   Submittal requirements. If the subdivider or subsequent lot owner
proposes to change the subdivision or the terms of preliminary approval after
final plat approval, the proponent shall submit the proposed changes to the
Administrator for review according to §
11.1.85 .
   (B)   Determining material change. Within five working days of receiving the
proposed changes, the Administrator shall determine whether the changes are
material pursuant to §
11.1.86 .
      (1)   Exception. Once the final plat is approved, changing the proposed
land use cannot be considered a material change, but a change to a condition of
approval that reflects a requirement for a particular land use can be.
   (C)   Result of a material change.
      (1)   Material changes requiring subdivision review. Any alteration which
increases the number of lots, modifies six or more lots, or abandons or alters
a public road right-of-way or park land dedication shall be reviewed as an
amended subdivision plat and be reviewed according to §§
11.1.80  and
11.1.81 .
      (2)   Material changes requiring a public meeting or hearing. Material
changes not meeting §
11.1.87 (C)(1) and other changes that are substantially contrary to any
approved subdivision application, do not comply with the conditions of
preliminary plat approval, or will materially alter any portion of a filed plat
(not to include minor boundary line adjustments or aggregations of lots exempt
under §§
11.1.110  through
11.1.112 ), its land divisions, or improvements, must be reviewed and approved
using the procedure described in §
11.1.85 . A material change may include changes to conditions of approval such
as to proposed covenants and easements, significant changes in lot sizes,
changes in water, wastewater or storm water proposals etc.
      (3)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   The City Council reserves the right to require a current
abstract of title for the impacted properties and may not approve an amended
final plat without the written consent of the owners and lienholders of all
lots which will be modified by the proposed amendment.
         (b)   The City Council may not approve an amendment that will place a
lot in non-conformance with the design standards contained in §§
11.1.95 through
11.1.101 of these regulations unless the City Council holds a public meeting or
public hearing (as applicable) and issues a written variance from the standards
pursuant to §
11.1.83.
         (c)   The City Council may not approve an amendment that will place a
lot in non-conformance with any existing zoning unless the appropriate zoning
board has granted a zoning variance to the applicable standard.
         (d)   The final amended plat submitted for approval must comply with
the requirements for final subdivision plats under the Montana Uniform
Standards for Final Subdivision Plats.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 11.1.95 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conformance with standards. All subdivisions approved by the City
Council must comply with the provisions of this chapter unless the City Council
grants a variance to the applicable standard pursuant to §
11.1.83 . The City Council may not grant variances from the provisions of §
11.1.96 (C), "Flood Hazards", below.
   (B)   Conformance with other regulations. The design, improvements, and
development of all subdivisions must conform with all other City, State and
Federal regulations that pertain to the development of land for residential and
commercial uses.
   (C)   Easements. Easements created for the subdivision shall include text
that describes who is granting the easement, who is the recipient or
beneficiary of the easement, responsibilities and restrictions on the lot
owner, who or what entities are responsible for maintenance or other
responsibilities related to the purpose of the easement, and term of the
easement.
   (D)   Improvement design and responsibilities.
      (1)   Design. Engineering and survey plans, specifications, and reports
required in connection with subdivision improvements required by the City
Council must be prepared by a professional engineer or a professional land
surveyor as their respective licensing laws allow in accordance with the MSPA
and these regulations.
      (2)   Completion of improvements. Subject to M.C.A. § 76-3-510 and (3)
below, the subdivider shall be responsible for completing the installation and
construction of all infrastructure required by these regulations for final plat
approval in compliance with the design standards contained in these
regulations. The exception to this requirement is when the City of White
Sulphur Springs or other public entity has adopted plans for improvements
consistent with subdivision improvements, in which case the City Council (or
other public entity subject to approval with the City Council) and the
subdivider may enter into an agreement with which the public entity and
subdivider share in the costs and responsibilities for improvements.
      (3)   Subdivision improvements agreements; financial security.
         (a)   Before final plat approval, the subdivider must have installed
all required improvements or have entered into a subdivision improvements
agreement guaranteeing the construction and installation of all required
improvements (M.C.A. § 76-3-507).
         (b)   The City Council may require 50 percent of all improvements, or
100 percent of any improvements necessary to protect public health and safety,
to be completed before allowing bonding or other reasonable security for
purposes of filing a final plat. The requirement is applicable to approved
preliminary plats (M.C.A. § 76-3-507(4)). In these circumstances, the
preliminary plat approval letter provided by the City Council shall identify
the improvements that are required to be installed prior to final plat
approval, including those related to protecting public health and safety, of
which 100 percent of the improvements shall be installed.
         (c)   No construction or placement of structures on the lots may occur
until improvements related to public health and safety, such as streets or
firefighting facilities, have been installed and engineering plans have been
filed.
         (d)   A model subdivision improvements agreement, alternative methods
of guaranteeing subdivision improvements, and the procedures and requirements
for securing an agreement are attached to these regulations as Administrative
Materials G, "Model Subdivision Improvements Agreement and Instructions,
Examples of Forms of Improvements Guarantees", found in Appendix B:
Supplemental Administrative Materials.
         (e)   If the subdivider chooses to enter into a subdivision
improvements agreement, guaranteeing the improvements through a bond or letter
of credit, three bids for the cost of installation of the improvements shall be
obtained by the subdivider. The amount of the guarantee shall be 125percent of
the highest bid.
         (f)   As the improvements are installed, the subdivider shall provide
a letter to the City Council indicating such and include a copy of the
engineered plans certifying all public improvements have been installed in
conformance with the approved plans and specifications. Prior to the release of
the guarantee, a copy of the plans, stamped by the project surveyor or engineer
in accordance with their respective licensing provisions, shall be filed at the
Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office with reference to the final
subdivision plat.
      (4)   Payback or latecomers agreement. For improvements that a subdivider
constructs beyond those that are directly attributable to the subdivision,
including those used to access other unsubdivided or subdivided lands, the
subdivider may request a payback or latecomers agreement in order to provide a
mechanism for reimbursement for a portion of the costs the subdivider incurs
which are not directly attributable to impacts caused by the subdivision.
Payback funds would be exacted from future subdividers and others who directly
benefit from the capital improvements. (For an example, see Administrative
Materials I, "Sample Latecomers Agreement", found in Appendix B: Supplemental
Administrative Materials.)
      (5)   Dedication and maintenance of subdivision improvements. All public
improvements that serve subdivisions shall be dedicated to and accepted and
maintained by the City of White Sulphur Springs or other public entity, with
the exception of private improvements for mobile home parks and RV parks (and
condominium and townhouse developments, which are exempt from the MSPA and this
chapter). Exceptions may also be made for improvements serving a limited number
of lot or unit owners, such as shared driveways and similar improvements that
are not expected to serve the general public or numerous lot or unit owners.
Such shared facilities may be maintained as governed by a legally enforceable
private agreement between the two lot or unit owners served by the
improvements. Draft private agreement(s) for the shared improvements shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat application, are subject to review and
approval by the City of White Sulphur Springs, and shall be recorded along with
the final plat. A Sample Shared Use and Maintenance Declaration is included in
Supplemental Administrative Materials J, "Sample Shared Use and Maintenance
Declaration", found in Appendix B: Supplemental Administrative Materials. All
dedications and maintenance of improvements to the City of White Sulphur
Springs are subject to approval by the City Council, which reserves the right
to reject any proposed dedication and maintenance requests and require another
form of dedication and private maintenance.
   (E)   Waiver of right to protest special improvement districts. When a
"Waiver of Right to Protest SID" is required per the following provisions, as a
mitigation measure or condition of preliminary plat approval, the waiver shall
identify the specific capital improvements for which the protest is being
waived. A waiver of a right to protest may not be valid for a time period
longer than 20 years after the date that the final subdivision plat is filed
with the county clerk and recorder (M.C.A. § 76-3-608(7)).The waiver shall be
filed with the final plat in at least one of the following forms (preferably
all forms):as condition of subdivision approval that gets filed with the plat,
as a requirement noted on the final plat, or as an acknowledgment on a document
signed by the subdivider.
   (F)   Notice to lot purchasers. When notice to lot purchasers is required as
mitigation or as a condition of preliminary plat approval, the noticing shall
be made in covenants and in purchase agreements. If the subdivision has no
covenants to file, the subdivider shall be required, as a condition of
approval, to submit all required notices and restrictions in a document to be
filed and recorded with the final plat.
   (G)   Disturbance prior to approvals. There shall be no surface disturbance
or preparation of ground for streets, other subdivision improvements, or
building sites requiring earth moving, ditches, or any other disturbance until
all approvals required for the disturbance have been received.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.96 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Lands unsuitable for subdivision. Subdivisions shall not result in
development of areas that are hazardous or detrimental to public health,
safety, or welfare, or that may result in an excessive expenditure of public
funds. Potential hazards may render portions or all of the subdivision
unsuitable for building sites, roads, water, and sewer infrastructure, and
other improvements necessary for the subdivision. Land that the City Council
determines is unsuitable for subdivision because of natural or human caused
hazards such as flooding, landslides, excessive slope, rock falls, snow
avalanches, subsidence, high water table, polluted or non-potable water; or
because of unreasonable burdens on the general public such as the requirements
for the excessive expenditure of public funds, environmental degradation, and
congestion in the roads shall not be subdivided for building or residential
purposes unless the hazards or excessive public burdens are eliminated or will
be overcome by appropriate design.
   (B)   Natural environment. The design and development of subdivisions shall,
insofar as it is possible, preserve or enhance the natural terrain, prominent
ridgelines, natural drainage, floodplain, existing topsoil, trees and other
natural vegetation.
   If a navigable stream or wetland would be affected, the subdivider shall
obtain all necessary and applicable permits from local, state, and federal
agencies (e.g., local floodplain permit, 310 permits from conservation
district, 404 permits from the US Army Corps of Engineers).
   (C)   Flood hazards. Land located in the floodway of a 100-year flood event
as defined by M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 5, or other land determined by the
governing body to be subject to flooding, may not
be subdivided for building or residential purposes or other uses that may
increase or aggravate flood hazards to life, health or welfare, or that may be
prohibited by state or local floodplain or floodway regulations. The following,
therefore, apply to areas subject to subdivision review in the vicinity of
adopted 100-year floodplains.
      (1)   Areas where the Base Flood Elevation has been identified. In areas
where the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) has been identified as part of any flood
studies or maps adopted by FEMA or DNRC:
         (a)   The areas at and below the BFE shall be identified on the
preliminary plat as a flood hazard area. The flood hazard area shall be
identified on the final plat as a no build zone.
         (b)   The City may, at any time, adopt floodplain management
regulations. Any improvements within a flood hazard area, 100-year floodplain,
or the floodway within the jurisdiction of the local floodplain regulations
shall meet the requirements of the local floodplain regulations prior to final
plat approval.
         (c)   Interpretation of floodplain boundary. If the property owner
believes all or part of the subject property has been inadvertently included in
the 100-year floodplain identified as part of flood studies and maps adopted by
FEMA or DNRC, the property owner may seek amendments through processes required
by FEMA and/or DNRC, as applicable.
      (2)   Areas where the Base Flood Elevation has not been identified. In
areas where the BFE has not been identified as part of flood studies and maps
adopted by the governing body (which includes Approximate Zone A 100-year
floodplains), the subdivider shall:
         (a)   If all or a portion of the subdivision is less than 1,000
horizontal feet and less than 10 vertical feet of the ordinary high-water mark
of a watercourse draining an area of 25 square miles or more where no official
floodway delineation or floodway studies have been made, the subdivider shall:
            1.   Identify the area less than 1,000 horizontal feet and less
than 10 vertical feet of the ordinary high-water mark of the river as a flood
hazard area on the preliminary plat. This area shall be shown on final plat as
a no build zone; or
            2.   Complete an engineering study that identifies the BFE. This
detailed evaluation must be performed by a professional engineer registered in
the State of Montana experienced in this field of work.
         (b)   Base Flood Elevation Study. If the subdivider chooses to
complete a study to determine the BFE, the following shall apply:
            1.   A copy of the study identifying the BFE shall be submitted
with the preliminary plat application to the local Administrator. The
Administrator shall forward the study to the Water Resources Division of the
Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) for comment.
The governing body shall not delay the preliminary plat review process to wait
for comments. Any comments received by the City of White Sulphur Springs shall
be forwarded to the subdivider; and
            2.   The areas at and below the BFE shall be identified as flood
hazard areas. The flood hazard area shall be identified on the final plat as a
no build zone.
   (D)   Disturbed areas.
      (1)   All areas disturbed during construction of subdivision related
improvements shall be revegetated following the provisions of city codes, or in
the absence of city codes, following the county noxious weed program. All
disturbed areas shall be reseeded and/or revegetated and maintained with
techniques approved in consultation with the Meagher County Weed Coordinator as
necessary prior to final plat approval.
      (2)   If over one acre is to be disturbed in the construction of public
improvements required for final plat, the applicant shall obtain permit
coverage under the General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with
Construction Activity with the Department of Environmental Quality's Water
Protection Bureau (commonly referred to as a SWPPP). The applicant shall submit
with the final plat application a copy of the confirmation letter from DEQ
which includes an authorization number demonstrating DEQ is in receipt of a
complete Notice of Intent Package.
   (E)   Wildlife and wildlife habitat. Subdivisions shall be designed to avoid
or minimize adverse impacts on wildlife and wildlife habitat, and human/
wildlife conflicts.
   (F)   Cultural resources. Subdivisions shall be designed to avoid or
minimize adverse impacts on cultural and historical features. The Administrator
may require an evaluation by the Montana State Historical Preservation Office
for preliminary plat review or the City Council may include a condition to
require such information prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.97 SUBDIVISION LAYOUT.
   (A)   Lots. Each lot intended for building purposes must contain a
satisfactory building site and conform to applicable zoning regulations, other
adopted codes and regulations, and these regulations.The following design
standards apply to all lots intended for building purposes:
      (1)   No single lot may be divided by a municipal boundary line.
      (2)   No single lot may contain portions divided by another parcel or
public right-of-way.
      (3)   Each lot must abut and have direct access to a public or private
street or road. When an alley is used to provide access, another primary access
must be available to the lot.
      (4)   Corner lots must be of sufficient area to provide acceptable
visibility for traffic safety.
      (5)   No lot may have an average depth greater than five times its
average width.
      (6)   Side lot lines must be at substantially right angles to street or
road lines and radial to curved street or road lines.
      (7)   Through lots (a.k.a. double frontage lots) are prohibited except
where essential to provide separation of development from traffic arteries or
to overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation. A through lot
means any lot which abuts two or more streets other than a corner lot, which
abuts two intersecting streets.
      (8)   All lots shall be developable in compliance with any City of White
Sulphur Springs Zoning Ordinance, as applicable.
   (B)   Blocks. Subdivisions creating a new area or neighborhood in the City
of White Sulphur Springs shall be laid out using a development pattern with
blocks similar to the City of White Sulphur Springs's current development
pattern, which provides traffic control, safety, areas for snow storage and
circulation, as well as efficient development. To assure the City's development
continues with an efficient pattern, the following design standards apply to
all subdivisions containing blocks:
      (1)   Block lengths shall not exceed 500 feet as measured from
consecutive rights-of-ways.
      (2)   Blocks must be wide enough to allow for two tiers of lots with
alleys between the two tiers, except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries with parks or open spaces between
residential lots and the applicable street.
   (C)   Relation to existing streets and neighborhoods. The subdivider shall
arrange new streets for their continuation to adjacent streets and
neighborhoods and for the convenient dispersal and movement of traffic,
connection of neighborhoods, effective provision of emergency services and
utilities. Proposed road plans and profiles as required by §
11.1.95 (D) are subject to approval by the City Engineer or Public Works
Department.
   (D)   Relation to unsubdivided areas. When a proposed subdivision adjoins
land that, in the estimation of the City Council, is likely to be subdivided in
the future and has the ability to efficiently connect existing, currently
separated streets or roads, the subdivider shall provide one or more easements
for the logical continuation of the subdivision street(s) and utilities to the
adjacent land. This requirement may be waived through the approval of a
variance by the City Council when one of the following criteria is met:
      (1)   Topography or other physical conditions would make it impracticable
to provide access to adjacent un-subdivided land.
      (2)   When the adjoining unsubdivided property is under public ownership.
      (3)   If the adjoining un-subdivided property is subject to a
conservation easement or other legally restrictive covenant as confirmed by the
City Attorney.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.98 WATER, SEWER, SOLID WASTE, AND GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide, along with the preliminary plat
application, the water supply information specified in M.C.A. § 76-3-622.
      (2)   All subdivisions within the City of White Sulphur Springs shall be
served by municipal water facilities.
      (3)   The City Council may require that any proposed subdivision provide
adequate and accessible water for fire protection.
      (4)   The subdivider must install complete water system facilities in
accordance with the requirements of the City of White Sulphur Springs and the
DEQ. The subdivider must submit plans and
specifications for the proposed facilities to the City of White Sulphur Springs
and to the DEQ and must obtain their approvals prior to undertaking any
construction. The City of White Sulphur Springs may consult with contracted
agents to ensure adequacy.
   (B)   Wastewater treatment.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide, along with the preliminary plat
application, the sanitation information for wastewater treatment systems
specified in M.C.A. § 76-3-622.
      (2)   All subdivisions within the City of White Sulphur Springs shall be
served by municipal wastewater treatment facilities.
      (3)   The subdivider must install complete wastewater treatment system
facilities in accordance with the requirements of the City of White Sulphur
Springs and the DEQ. The subdivider must submit plans and specifications for
the proposed facilities to the City of White Sulphur Springs and to the DEQ and
must obtain their approvals prior to undertaking any construction. The City of
White Sulphur Springs may consult with contracted agents to ensure adequacy.
   (C)   Solid waste. The subdivider must provide for disposal of solid waste
that meets the minimum standards of the DEQ, the City of White Sulphur Springs
codes, and the City Public Works Department. The City Council in consultation
with the Public Works Department may require central common facilities for
collection of solid waste. The subdivider is responsible for making any
necessary improvements for solid waste collection as required by the City
Council.
   (D)   Grading and drainage.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide, along with the preliminary plat
application, the information regarding the proposed subdivision's storm water
facilities as specified in M.C.A. § 76-3-622.
      (2)   When any drainage facilities will rely upon property, right-of-way,
easements, or facilities owned by the City of White Sulphur Springs, the
drainage plans for the subdivision are subject to approval by the City Council
and Public Works Department.
      (3)   Subdivisions containing lots less than 20 acres in size must be
reviewed and approved under M.C.A. Title 76, Chapter 4, by the DEQ, as
applicable.
      (4)   All storm sewer facilities and drainage plans are subject to any
adopted city codes.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.99 LOCAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Utilities.
      (1)   All subdivision lots shall be provided electrical utilities,
natural gas, water, sewer, and access to internet if such utilities are
available.
      (2)   All new utility lines shall be placed underground where practical
or as determined by the installing utility company.
      (3)   The subdivider must provide adequate and appropriate easements for
existing utilities and the construction of planned utilities within the
subdivision. Where utility easements do not adequately abut the subdivision,
the subdivider must obtain any easements necessary to extend utilities to the
subdivision.
      (4)   Utility facilities must be designed in accordance with the utility
firms providing service, subject to all applicable laws and rules and
regulations of any appropriate regulatory authority.
      (5)   Utilities must be placed in accordance with utility service
providers. Underground utilities, if placed in the street right-of-way, must be
located between the street and the right-of-way line to simplify location and
repair of lines. Such underground facilities must be installed after the street
has been brought to grade and before it is surfaced, to eliminate disturbance
of the surfacing for the connection of individual services.
      (6)   Utility easements located between adjoining lots must be centered
on lot lines or follow lot lines.
      (7)   Utility easements must be a minimum of 15 feet wide unless
otherwise specified by a utility company or the City Council.
      (8)   Utilities placed in the street right-of-way shall be located
between the street and the right-of-way line, except where utilities cross the
streets at approximately right angles.
      (9)   When a utility is to be located in an existing, dedicated right-of-
way, permission must be obtained from the City Council, or local or state
highway authority.
      (10)   The subdivider shall describe, dimension, and show any new public
utility easements in the subdivision on the final plat in their true and
correct location. The public utility easements must be of sufficient width to
allow the physical placement and unobstructed maintenance of public utility
facilities for the provision of public utility services within the subdivision.
   (B)   Mail delivery. Mail delivery for the proposed subdivision shall be
designed in consultation with the USPS as either delivery to individual lots,
mail cluster box units (CBUs) within the subdivision, postoffice boxes, or a
combination. The method of mail delivery must be clarified at preliminary plat.
TheCity Council may require USPS approval for CBUs prior to final plat.
   (C)   Fire protection. The City of White Sulphur Springs and immediate
vicinity are within theWildland Urban Interface (WUI). The design of
subdivisions needs to consider subdivision layout, access, signage, vegetation
management, and landowner education. The following standards shall apply to all
subdivisions:
      (1)   All subdivisions must be planned, designed, constructed, and
maintained so as to minimize the risk of fire and to permit the effective and
efficient suppression of fires in order to protect persons, property, and
forested areas.
      (2)   All subdivisions in the City of White Sulphur Springs must be
within the service area of the White Sulphur Springs Volunteer Fire Department
or other public fire authority.
      (3)   Subdivisions shall comply with applicable adopted fire codes.
      (4)   The City Council may require that any proposed subdivision provide
adequate and accessible water for fire protection, including installation of
fire hydrants on the municipal water system designed to standards adopted by
City codes. Installation of fire hydrants for subdivisions shall adhere to the
municipal codes applicable to the subdivision. Hydrants should be provided at
each street intersection and at intermediate points between intersections as
recommended by the state Insurance Services Office. Generally, hydrant space
may range from 350- to 600-feet depending on the area being served. The
Administrator, in consultation with the City Engineer and appropriate City
staff, will evaluate the specific fire protection water supply needs of the
subdivision and make a determination as to the location, spacing and number of
fire hydrants needed within the subdivision.
      (5)   Building sites shall be prohibited on slopes greater than thirty
percent (30%) and at the apex of "fire chimneys" (topographic features, usually
drainageways or swales, which tend to funnel or otherwise concentrate fire
toward the top of steep slopes).
      (6)   Open space, park land and recreation areas including greenbelts,
riding, or hiking trails should be located, where appropriate, to separate
residences and other buildings from densely forested areas.
      (7)   All major subdivisions and subsequent minor subdivisions shall have
two access routes meeting the street standards found in these regulations. At
the discretion of the City Council, one of the access routes may be constructed
as an emergency access route meeting a lower street standard. Circumstances may
require accesses to exceed transportation standards. For example, the City
Council may choose to disallow subdivisions without two accesses in and out of
them, to assure more than one escape route for residents and at least two
access routes by emergency vehicles.
      (8)   All streets shall be identified with approved noncombustible,
reflective street signs that meet City standards.
      (9)   Rights-of-way and subdivisions shall be cleared of slash prior to
final plat approval and maintained clear of slash.
      (10)   A vegetation management plan may be required to be developed for
all properties within the subdivision, including open space areas; which will
be discussed with the subdivider at or following the pre-application meeting.
This plan shall be reviewed and approved by the City Council during preliminary
plat review after review and comment by the local fire authority. The intent of
the plan is to reduce fuel loading and provide continuous maintenance of the
fuel load. It shall address the following:
         (a)   Protection of life and property.
         (b)   Reduction of the potential for a fire to spread.
         (c)   Providing safe areas for emergency responders to effectively
fight fires.
         (d)   Provision of defensible space around access ways and structures.
         (e)   Ensuring appropriate and healthy vegetation types and minimal
fuel loads into the future.
      (11)   A map of fire protection features shall be submitted to the
Volunteer Fire Chief or designee for review and approval prior to final plat
approval. This map will show access streets, hydrants, water supply points, and
any other pertinent items. It shall also be made a component of any homeowners'
association covenants.
   (D)   Park Land Dedication; Cash in Lieu; Waivers; Administration (M.C.A. §
76-3-621).
      (1)   Except as provided below, the final plat of a residential
subdivision must show that the subdivider has dedicated to the City of White
Sulphur Springs a cash 1  or land donation equal to:
         (a)   Eleven percent of the area of the land proposed to be subdivided
into parcels of one-half acre or smaller;
         (b)   Seven and one-half percent of the area of the land proposed to
be subdivided into parcels larger than one-half acre and not larger than one
acre;
         (c)   Five percent of the area of the land proposed to be subdivided
into parcels larger than one acre and not larger than three acres; and
         (d)   Two and one-half percent of the area of the land proposed to be
subdivided into parcels larger than three acres and not larger than five acres.
      (2)   A park dedication is not required for:
         (a)   Land proposed for subdivision into parcels larger than five
acres;
         (b)   Subdivision into parcels that are all nonresidential;
         (c)   A subdivision in which parcels are not created, except when that
subdivision provides permanent multiple spaces for recreational camping
vehicles, mobile homes, condominiums, or townhomes/townhouses; or
         (d)   Subdivisions which create only one additional parcel.
      (3)   When allowed by subsection (D)(2) above, in accordance with M.C.A.
§ 76-3-621(8)(a), the City Council requires park dedication for minor
subdivisions within the municipal boundaries.
      (4)   The City Council, in consultation with the subdivider and the
Planning Board or established park board that has jurisdiction, may determine
suitable locations for parks and playgrounds and, giving due weight and
consideration to the expressed preference of the subdivider, may determine
whether the park dedication must be a land donation, cash donation, or a
combination of both. When a combination of land donation and cash donation is
required, the cash donation may not exceed the proportional amount not covered
by the land donation.
      (5)   The land dedicated for park use may be inside or outside the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
      (6)   The City Council will waive the park dedication requirement if it
determines that:
         (a)   The preliminary plat provides for a planned unit development or
other development with land permanently set aside for park and recreational
uses sufficient to meet the needs of the persons who will ultimately reside in
the development; and the area of the land and any improvements set aside for
park and recreational purposes equals or exceeds the area of the dedication
required;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will provide for the long-term
protection of critical wildlife habitat; cultural, historical, or natural
resources; agricultural interests; or aesthetic values; and by virtue of
providing this long-term protection will result in the reduction of the area of
the land proposed to be subdivided by an amount equal to or exceeding the area
that would have had to be dedicated;
         (c)   The area of the land proposed to be subdivided, by virtue of a
combination of the provisions of (D)(6)(a) and (D)(6)(b) above, is reduced by
an amount equal to or exceeding the area of the dedication required; or
         (d)   The subdivider provides for land outside of the subdivision to
be set aside for park and recreational uses sufficient to meet the needs of the
persons who will ultimately reside in the subdivision; and the area of the land
and any improvements set aside for park and recreational uses equals or exceeds
the area of dedication required.
      (7)   The City Council may waive the park dedication requirement if:
         (a)   The subdivider provides land outside the subdivision that
affords long-term protection of critical wildlife habitat, cultural,
historical, or natural resources, agricultural interests, or aesthetic values
(M.C.A. § 76-3-621(7)(a)); and
         (b)   The area of the land to be subject to long-term protection
equals or exceeds the area of dedication required (M.C.A. § 76-3-621(7)(b)).
      (8)   Subject to the approval of the City Council and acceptance by the
school district trustees, a subdivider may dedicate a land donation provided to
a school district adequate to be used for school facilities or buildings
(M.C.A. § 76-3-621(9)).
      (9)   The City Council will administer funds dedicated to the public
under this section in accordance with M.C.A.§ 76-3-621(5). In accordance with
M.C.A. § 76-3-621(5)(b)(ii), the City Council may only use dedicated money to
acquire, develop, or maintain, within its jurisdiction, parks or recreational
areas or for the purchase of public open space or conservation easements if the
park, recreational area, open space, or conservation easement is within a
reasonably close proximity to the proposed subdivision, and the City Council
has formally adopted a park plan that establishes the needs and procedures for
use of the money. In addition, the City Council may not use more than 50% of
the dedicated money for park maintenance. As such, cash dedications in-lieu of
land dedications may only be used to meet park dedication requirements where a
formal park plan has been adopted by the City Council.
      (10)   For the purposes of this section, "cash donation" means the fair
market value of the unsubdivided, unimproved land.
      (11)   For subdivisions that include a land dedication(s) to meet the
park dedication requirement, the final plat submittal shall include a deed
transferring the parkland to the City of White Sulphur Springs, which shall be
deemed suitable for recording at the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office
with the final plat.
      (12)   Any cash dedication in-lieu of land dedication to meet the park
dedication requirements shall be paid prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
 
Notes
  Cash Donations may only be used and subject to a park plan being formally
1 adopted by the City Council in accordance with subsection (D)(9) and M.C.A. §
  76-3-621(5)(b)(ii)), to allow for legal use of cash donations by the City
  Council.
§ 11.1.100 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Arrangement.
      (1)   General design. The arrangement, type, extent, width, grade,
materials, and location of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, maintenance
considerations, and the delivery of emergency services, public convenience and
safety, and the proposed uses of the land to be served by them. Street design
shall substantially follow a rectangular pattern.
      (2)   Applicability. All off-site and on-site streets providing the
primary access to a proposed subdivision and subdivision lots shall be designed
and constructed to meet the standards found in these regulations or any
separate street and roadway standards adopted by the City Council, except as
allowed by variance.
      (3)   Relationship to undeveloped areas. Street design for subdivisions
adjacent to unsubivided or undeveloped areas shall be designed to allow for the
continuation of the rectangular block pattern into the undeveloped or
unsubivided areas. In situations where future development of adjacent land is
planned or expected in a reasonably near future as determined by the City
Council, dead-ends and cul-de-sacs intended to provide future connections to
the planned or expected future development are allowed, or may be required by
the City Council, and do not require a variance.
   The requirement for continued streets to unsubdivided or undeveloped areas
may be waived through the approval of a variance by the City Council when one
of the following criteria is met:
         (a)   Topography or other physical conditions would make it
impracticable to provide access to adjacent un-subdivided land.
         (b)   When the adjoining unsubdivided property is under public
ownership.
         (c)   If the adjoining un-subdivided property is subject to a
conservation easement or other legally restrictive covenant as confirmed by the
City Attorney.
   (B)   Street design.
      (1)   General.
TABLE 1: ROAD STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
Minimum Design Standards Collector Local Road
TABLE 1: ROAD STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
Minimum Design Standards                                Collector Local Road
  Minimum right-of-way width
1 a.   Level terrain                                 60'       60'
  b.   Hilly terrain                                 60'       60'
2 Minimum roadway width                                 26'       24'
3 Minimum curb radius or edge pavement at intersections 25'       15'
4 Maximum grades                                        8%        10%
  Approaches onto public roads
5 Minimum sight distance                                200'      150'
  Maximum grade for 20'                                 5%        5%
  Curvature
6 Design speed                                          30 mph    20 mph
  Minimum radius                                        250'      150'
  Turn arounds
  Maximum dead end road length                                   1,000'
7 Cul-de-sac outside ROW radius                                  40'
  Cul-de-sac roadway ROW radius                                  35'
  "T" Turn arounds leg length                                    30'
  Bridges
8 Roadway width                                         26'       24'
  Design capacity                                       20 tons   20 tons
  Vertical clearance                                    14.5'     14.5'
 
         (a)   Half-streets. Half-streets are prohibited except when they are
essential to the development of the subdivision and when the City Council is
satisfied that the other half of the street will be dedicated to the public and
constructed when the neighboring property is subdivided. When an existing half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
must be platted within the new subdivision.
         (b)   Frontage accesses. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial or collector street, the subdivider may be
required to provide a frontage access with a reservation prohibiting access
along the arterial or collector street right-of-way, with screening plantings
or other such treatment as may be necessary for the protection of residential
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
         (c)   Dead-end streets. The following provisions apply to dead-end
streets:
            1.   Except for local residential streets and collectors within
phases of subdivisions that will provide continuation of streets in future
development at the satisfaction of the City Council, and within private
developments, dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs are prohibited.
            2.   Alleys are not allowed to dead-end and must be served by other
streets at both ends.
            3.   When a dead-end street is allowed, the street shall have an
approved turnaround. Where dead-end streets terminate, the developer shall
provide either a cul-de-sac bulb or "T" turnaround at the terminus. Cul-de-sacs
shall have a full diameter of 100' and "T" turnarounds and modified
"T"turnarounds shall have minimum backup legs of 35 feet as measured from the
edge of driving lanes of the street. The turnarounds shall include surface
widths consistent with the main part of the street, but parking may be
prohibited by the City Council.
            4.   Where it is planned that a dead-end street will be extended
for a future phase or subdivision, a temporary cul-de-sac bulb or "T" turn-
around shall be provided and a right-of-way of appropriate width shall be shown
on the preliminary and final plat to the adjoining phase or subdivision
property.
            5.   Sufficient right-of-way for turnaround areas and associated
storm water drainage facilities shall be provided, which at a minimum shall be
consistent with the street right-of-way width.
      (2)   Intersections. The following requirements shall apply to street
intersections:
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. except when topography prohibits this alignment. No
street shall intersect any other street at less than a 60-degree angle.
         (b)   The intersection of more than two streets at one point shall be
avoided.
         (c)   Two streets meeting a third street from opposite sides shall
meet at the same point or their centerlines shall be offset by a minimum of 125
feet for local streets and private development streets and 300 feet for
collectors or arterials.
         (d)   Intersection design must provide acceptable visibility for
traffic safety as dictated by the designed operating speeds on the individual
streets.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/253cf92860ca2c4cb1f61bc42e18ba2ae91b372c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1981.gif]   
Figure 1: Intersection and street details
 
   (C)   Bridges and culverts.
      (1)   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where drainage channels and
waterways intersect any street right-of-way or approach. Guard rails shall also
be installed on bridges. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of
construction of public bridges or culverts. Culvert construction shall comply
with applicable state law and regulations and federal laws and regulations (if
applicable). For public bridge and culvert construction falling within the
jurisdiction of the Meagher County Board of County Commissioners under M.C.A.
§§ 7-14-2201, et seq., the preliminary plat application shall include the
subdivider's proposal to ensure construction complies with state law and
regulations and federal law and regulations (if applicable), along with
comments on the construction from the Board. All proposals for the construction
of public bridges and culverts within the jurisdiction of Meagher County are
subject to the approval of the Meagher County Board of County Commissioners and
the White Sulphur Springs City Council prior to final plat approval. All
proposals for the construction of culverts not within the jurisdiction of
Meagher County are subject to the approval of the White Sulphur Springs City
Council prior to final plat approval. Pursuant to M.C.A. § 7-14-2201(4) "public
bridges" means public bridges located in towns or cities.
      (2)   Bridges and culverts shall be designed by a registered engineer to
be appropriately sized in accordance with the drainage.
      (3)   Bridges must be designed and constructed to meet the current
edition of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) Load Resistance and Factor Design (LRFD) Design
Specifications and the AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and
Streets. Permits for construction over waterways, including USACE 404 and state
permits, may be required.
      (4)   Bridges within the 100-year floodplain shall be designed so the
lowest horizontal chord of the bridge is at least two-feet above the Base Flood
Elevation.
   (D)   Street names and addresses.
      (1)   All street names must be approved by the City Council pursuant to
the City of White Sulphur Springs's addressing system.
      (2)   All lots and units shall be subject to the City of White Sulphur
Springs's addressing system. Address numbers are assigned according to City
code and shall be visibly posted on each lot prior to final plat approval and
be maintained by the future property owner.
   (E)   Street lighting. All subdivisions are subject to the requirement that
street lighting be installed by the subdivider in accordance with the codes and
policies of the City of White Sulphur Springs. Typically, a minimum of two
street lights per block on each side of the street shall be required except in
residential areas where street lights are only required at intersections of
streets or crosswalks across streets. All street lighting shall be downward-
pointed and side-shielded to prevent glare and sky glow. Street lights may be a
height of no more than 25 feet.
   (F)   Traffic impact studies required and off-site street improvements.
      (1)   Traffic impact studies required. A traffic impact study completed
by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Montana is required for the
following subdivisions:
         (a)   For all subdivisions that will generate more than 750 ADT.
         (b)   Traffic impact studies that are required by the Montana
Department of Transportation (MDT) for any access or approach onto a MDT
roadway shall be submitted with the preliminary plat application.
         (c)   Traffic studies for streets outside the jurisdiction of MDT
shall be completed using the format found in Administrative Materials H,
"Contents of Traffic Impact Studies", found in Appendix B: Supplemental
Administrative Materials).
      (2)   Off-site street improvements. The City Council shall require off-
site street improvements when the improvements are proportional to the direct
impact of the subdivision. Off-site street improvements shall be based on the
recommendations of the traffic impact study required according to §
11.1.100 (F) above and as agreed to by the agency with jurisdiction over the
street (i.e., MDT or City Public Works).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.101 WATER RIGHTS AND WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Documentation of water rights. The subdivider shall document all
existing appropriated water rights and/or any contract or interest in a public
or private entity providing water on/to the land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Distribution of water rights.
      (1)   Subdivisions with lots averaging less than five acres. If a
subdivision will create lots averaging less than five acres in size, the
subdivider shall submit evidence with the final plat that the subdivider has
addressed the following:
         (a)   Requirements for reserving and transferring water rights. The
owner of the land to be subdivided can either:
            1.   Reserve and sever all surface water rights from the land; or
            2.   Transfer all or a portion of the water rights to a single
entity for use by landowners within the subdivision who have a legal right to
the water. After transfer to the single entity, the subdivider shall reserve
and sever any remaining surface water rights from the land.
         (b)   Contract or interest in an entity providing water. If the land
to be subdivided is subject to a contract or interest in a public or private
entity formed to provide the use of a water right on the subdivision lots:
            1.   Landowners' Water Use Agreement. The subdivider shall
establish a landowners' water use agreement administered through a single
entity that specifies administration and the rights and responsibilities of
landowners within the subdivision who have a legal right and access to the
water; and
            2.   Approval from Entity Providing Water. The entity providing the
water shall approve the proposed changes related to the subdivision and the
landowners' water use agreement.
      (2)   Subdivisions with lots averaging five acres or more. If the
subdivision creates lots averaging five acres or more in size, the subdivider
shall provide irrigation easements as identified in (C) below or shall reserve
and sever all irrigation water rights/shares from the property.
   (C)   Irrigation easements.
      (1)   Easements requirements. Except as provided in subsection (C)(2)
below, the subdivider shall establish irrigation easements that meet all the
following requirements.
         (a)   Sufficient location for placement and maintenance. Easements are
in locations of appropriate topographic characteristics and sufficient width to
allow the physical placement and unobstructed maintenance of open ditches or
below ground pipelines for the delivery of water for irrigation to persons and
lands legally entitled to the water under an appropriated water right or permit
of an irrigation district or other private or public entity formed to provide
for the use of the water right on the subdivision lots.
         (b)   Easement measurement from ditch centerline. Easements are a
sufficient distance from the centerline of the ditch to allow for construction,
repair, maintenance, and inspection of the ditch.
         (c)   Structures and certain vegetation prohibited. Easements prohibit
the placement of structures or the planting of vegetation other than grass
within the ditch easement without the written permission of the ditch owner.
      (2)   Exemptions from irrigation easement requirements. The subdivider
need not establish irrigation easements as provided above if:
         (a)   No easement is required if the average lot size is one acre or
less and the subdivider provides for disclosure in a document to be recorded
with the final plat that adequately notifies potential buyers of lots that are
classified as irrigated land and may continue to be assessed for irrigation
water delivery even though the water may not be deliverable; or
         (b)   No easement is required if the water rights are removed or the
process has been initiated to remove the water rights from the subdivided land
through an appropriate legal or administrative process and if the removal or
intended removal is denoted on the preliminary plat. If removal of water rights
is not complete upon filing of the final plat, the subdivider shall provide
written notification to prospective buyers of the intent to remove the water
right and shall document that intent, when applicable, in agreements and legal
documents for related sales transactions. This notification shall be included
in a document to be recorded with the final plat.
      (3)   Easements to be filed and recorded.
         (a)   Plat and written easements required. The subdivider shall show
the easement on the preliminary and final plat, and file and record the
easements with the county clerk and recorder with the final plat.
         (b)   Language required in the easement. The easement document to be
filed with the plat must include the following language: "The ditch easement is
for the unobstructed use and maintenance of existing water delivery ditches,
pipelines, and facilities in the subdivision that are necessary to convey water
through the subdivision to lands adjacent to or beyond the subdivision
boundaries in quantities and in a manner that are consistent with historic and
legal rights."
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
EXEMPTIONS
§ 11.1.110 EXEMPTIONS, GENERALLY.
   The MSPA provides miscellaneous exemptions for some divisions of land, which
are found in M.C.A. Part 2 of Title 76, Chapter 3. These divisions are exempt
from local subdivision review and approval by the City of White Sulphur Springs
and are therefore not subject to the review requirements or design standards of
these regulations. However, pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(p), local
subdivision regulations, must, at a minimum, establish criteria that the City
Council or reviewing authority will use to determine whether proposed methods
of disposition, using the exemptions provided in M.C.A. §§ 76-3-201 or 76-3-
207, are attempts to evade the MSPA. This chapter establishes the criteria and
the administrative processes for exempt divisions of land in the City of White
Sulphur Springs.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.111 GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Advisory examination. Landowners or their representatives are
encouraged to meet with the Administrator to discuss whether a proposed
exemption is in compliance with the MSPA and the criteria of this chapter prior
to submitting documents claiming an exemption.
   (B)   Submittal and administration.
      (1)   Any person ("claimant" herein) claiming an exemption listed under §
11.1.112, subsections A through F, shall submit to the City of White Sulphur
Springs for examination by the Administrator a draft certificate of survey,
amended plat, or where a survey is not required, a draft instrument of
conveyance, and evidence of entitlement to the claimed exemption (see Figure 5
for the general procedural steps, and as referenced herein was adopted as laid
out in full and by this reference may be found and is available for viewing in
the offices at City Hall or through the City website). Additional submittal
requirements specific to certain types of exemptions are listed in §
11.1.112, subsections A through F.
      (2)   The Administrator shall review the document(s) and may consult with
the City Attorney, Public Works Department, and other staff and officials
(e.g., the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder, examining land surveyor, Montana
DEQ, City Council, etc.). The exemption shall be examined within20 working days
of the receipt of an application (M.C.A. § 76-3-207(4)(c)) containing all
materials and information required by the City Council to complete the
examination under regulations adopted pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(p); and
the City Council may not impose conditions on the approval of a division of
land under this section except for conditions necessary to ensure compliance
with the survey requirements of M.C.A. Title 76, chapter 3, part 4.
      (3)   If the Administrator finds the proposed use of the exemption
complies with the statutes and applicable criteria, the Administrator shall
advise the claimant and the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder that the
applicable documents may be filed. If the Administrator finds the proposed use
of the exemption does not comply with the statues and the criteria in this
chapter, the Administrator shall advise the claimant and the Meagher County
Clerk and Recorder of the decision, return the original documents to the
claimant, and may retain a copy of the documents.
      (4)   After review and approval of the applicable documents by the
Administrator and examining land surveyor (if applicable), and when all
appropriate signatures are in place, the proper documents shall be filed with
the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office within one calendar year of the
notification from the Administrator that the applicable documents may be filed.
      (5)   If the use of an exemption is denied, the landowner may initiate
the process to apply for subdivision review subject to the requirements of
these and other applicable regulations.
      (6)   Any person whose proposed use of exemption has been denied by the
Administrator may appeal the Administrator's decision to the City Council. The
person may request a meeting with the City Council and may submit additional
evidence to show how the use of the exemption in question is appropriate and
not intended to evade the MSPA, and, thereby overcome any presumption of
evasion. If the City Council concludes the evidence and information overcomes
the presumption that the exemption is being invoked to evade the MSPA or
otherwise finds the exemption appropriate, the City Council may authorize the
use of the exemption in writing. A survey claiming such an exemption from
subdivision review (or an instrument of conveyance if no survey is required),
which otherwise is in proper form and approved by the examining land surveyor
(if applicable), may be filed if it is accompanied by written authorization of
the City Council.
      (7)   Figure 7: Flowchart for the typical exemption review process, as
referenced herein was adopted as laid out in full and by this reference may be
found and is available for viewing in the offices at City Hall or through the
City website.
   (C)   Exemption evasion criteria.
      (1)   When determining whether an exemption is claimed for the purpose of
evading the MSPA, the Administrator (and City Council when considering
appeals), shall consider all of the surrounding circumstances. These
circumstances may include but are not limited to: the nature of the claimant's
business, the prior history of the particular tract in question, the proposed
configuration of the tracts if the proposed exempt transaction(s) is completed,
and any pattern of exempt transactions that will result in the equivalent of a
subdivision without local government review (State ex rel. Dreher v. Fuller, 50
St. Rpt. 454, 1993).
      (2)   Exempt divisions of land that would result in a pattern of
development equivalent to a subdivision may be presumed to be adopted for
purposes of evading the MSPA based on the surrounding circumstances in
subsection (C)(1), above.
      (3)   When determining whether an exemption is claimed for the purpose of
evading the MSPA, the Administrator (and City Council when considering
appeals), shall consider the review criteria outlined for the specific
exemptions listed in §
11.1.112 below.
   (D)   Requirements for exemptions.
      (1)   All parcels and the use of all parcels created or amended through
the use of an exemption shall comply with an existing zoning ordinance as
applicable, or the degree of non-conformity shall not be expanded. For example,
a lot smaller than the zoning regulations' minimum lot size requirement may not
be made smaller, but may maintain the non-conforming lot size or be made
larger; similarly, a lot with a boundary that has a non-conforming structure
within the required setback may not be altered in a manner that would cause the
boundary to become closer to that structure.
      (2)   The City of White Sulphur Springs may not require lots resulting
from exempt divisions to comply with §§
11.1.95 through
11.1.101, Design Standards, unless the exemption seeks to alter alot that was
subject to the design and improvement standards of the subdivision regulations
during subdivision review. An exemption that seeks to alter a lot that was
subject to the design and improvement standards of the subdivision regulations
during subdivision review, which would place the lot(s) out of compliance with
those standards, would require approval of a variance pursuant to §
11.1.83 of these regulations.
      (3)   To exempt divisions and/or remaining parcels of land resulting from
the exemptions in M.C.A. § 76-3-207 from the survey requirements of M.C.A. §
76-3-401 the parcel(s) must be able to be described as a 1/32 or larger aliquot
part of a United States Government section.
      (4)   Subject to the following, a division of land exempt from
subdivision review by M.C.A. § 76-3-207 (a gift or sale to a member of the
immediate family, exemption for agricultural purposes, or relocation of common
boundaries) may not be made unless the Meagher County Treasurer has certified
that all real property taxes and special assessments assessed and levied on the
land to be divided have been paid.
         (a)   If a division of land includes centrally assessed property and
the property taxes applicable to the division of land are not specifically
identified in the tax assessment, the Department of Revenue shall prorate the
taxes applicable to the land being divided on a reasonable basis. The owner of
the centrally assessed property shall ensure that the prorated real property
taxes and special assessments are paid on the land being sold before the
division of land is made.
         (b)   The Meagher County Treasurer may accept the amount of the tax
prorated as a partial payment of the total tax that is due.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
§ 11.1.112 SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Family transfers. Divisions for the purpose of a single gift or sale
in each county to each member of the landowner's immediate family (M.C.A. §§
76-3-207(1)(b) and 76-3-207(2)(b)).
      (1)   Statement of intent. The intent of this exemption is to allow a
landowner to create one parcel for conveyance to each immediate family member
without local subdivision review.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   A single parcel may be conveyed to each immediate family member
of the landowner under this exemption in each county where the landowner owns
property.
         (b)   For purposes of this exemption, "immediate family member" means
a spouse, child by blood or adoption, and parent of the grantor.
         (c)   Filing of any certificate of survey (or recording of an
instrument of conveyance) that would use this exemption to create a parcel for
conveyance to a family member must show the name of the grantee, relationship
to the landowner, and the parcel to be conveyed under this exemption, and the
landowner's certification of compliance.
         (d)   Any certificate of survey that would use this exemption to
create a parcel for conveyance to a family member shall be accompanied by the
instrument of conveyance, such as a deed.
         (e)   If located within a subdivision approved by the City Council,
the lot size created is allowed within the subdivision.
         (f)   A restriction or requirement within the subdivision continues to
apply to the lot(s)being created.
         (g)   Complies with the lot sizes required by the zoning regulations
of the City.
         (h)   Tract is not transferred or conveyed from the immediate family
member or spouse to another party for a time period of two (2) years from the
day the certificate of survey is filed with the County Clerk and Recorder
(M.C.A. § 76-3-207(5)).
      (3)   Review criteria.
         (a)   Any proposed use of a family transfer exemption to divide a
tract of record that was created through use of an exemption may be deemed an
attempt to evade the MSPA.
         (b)   The use of the family transfer exemption to divide a tract that
was created as part of an overall development plan with such characteristics as
common streets, utility easements, restrictive covenants, open space or common
marketing or promotional plan, or with a need to create such characteristics
may be deemed an attempt to evade the MSPA.
   (B)   Agricultural exemptions. Divisions made outside of platted
subdivisions by gift, sale, or agreement to buy and sell in which the parties
to the transaction enter a covenant running with the land and revocable only by
mutual consent of the City Council and the property owner that the divided land
will be used exclusively for agricultural purposes (M.C.A. § 76-3-207(1)(c)).
      (1)   Statement of intent. The intent of this exemption is to allow a
landowner to create a parcel without local subdivision review where the parcel
will be used only for agricultural purposes.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   Agricultural purposes. For purposes of this exemption, the term
"agricultural purposes" means the use of land for raising crops or livestock,
and specifically excludes residential, commercial, and industrial uses and
structures, as well as any facilities for commercially or industrially
processing agricultural products.
         (b)   The division must be exempt from sanitation review by the MDEQ
pursuant to M.C.A.§ 76-4-125(2)(c), as a division made for purposes other than
the construction of water supply or sewage and solid waste disposal facilities.
This sanitation exemption must be properly invoked by the property owner.
         (c)   The landowner must enter into a covenant running with the land
and revocable only by mutual consent of the City Council and the property
owner, heirs, successors and assigns that the newly created agricultural parcel
will be used exclusively for agricultural purposes as defined above. The
covenant must be signed by the property owner and the City Council and
acknowledge that any change in use of the newly created agricultural parcel for
anything other than agricultural purposes subjects the parcel to subdivision
review, except as specifically allowed herein.
         (d)   Any change in use of the newly created agricultural parcel for
anything other than agricultural purposes subjects the parcel to subdivision
review (M.C.A. § 76-3-211(1)). However, pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-211(1)(a),
the City Council, in its discretion, may revoke the covenant provided for in
M.C.A. § 76-3-207(1)(c) for the purposes of the MSPA and the division may
proceed without subdivision review if:
            1.   The original lot lines are restored through aggregation of the
covenanted land prior to or in conjunction with the revoking of the covenant;
or
            2.   A government or public entity seeks to use the land for
'public purposes' as defined below, which is the definition adopted "in the
governing body's review criteria pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-504(1)(p)". For
purposes of this subsection, applicable to removal of agricultural covenants
for public purposes, such "public purposes" as defined for these review
criteria shall be defined as the "public uses" enumerated in M.C.A. § 70-30-102
that are public uses enumerated as acceptable uses of land for which the right
of eminent domain may be exercised.
         (e)   If the City Council proposes to revoke a covenant pursuant to
subsection (B)(2)(d) above, the City Council shall hold a public hearing.
Within 15 days of the hearing, the City Council shall issue written findings of
fact and a decision based on the record. If the City Council approves the
revoking of the covenant, the approval must be recorded with the clerk and
recorder (M.C.A. § 76-3-211(2)).
         (f)   The revocation of a covenant pursuant to this section and M.C.A.
§ 76-3-211 does not affect sanitary restrictions imposed under M.C.A. Title 76,
chapter 4.
         (g)   The use of the agricultural exemption may not create more than
one remaining parcel of less than 160 acres.
   (C)   Relocations of common boundaries and aggregation of lots (M.C.A. §§
76-3-207(1)(a), (d), (e), and (f)).
      (1)   Statement of intent. The intent of these exemptions is to allow a
change in the location of one or more boundary lines between parcels and to
allow transfer of the land without subdivision review or to allow more than one
parcel to be aggregated into fewer parcels.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   If the relocation of common boundaries would result in the
permanent creation of an additional parcel of land, the division of land must
be reviewed as a subdivision.
         (b)   If a change is made to a platted subdivision which results in a
redesign or rearrangement of six or more lots in a platted subdivision, the
division of land must be reviewed as a major subdivision.
         (c)   Certificates of survey, or amended plats for those altering
platted subdivisions, claiming one of these exemptions must clearly distinguish
between existing boundary locations and new boundary locations. This shall be
accomplished by showing the existing boundaries with dashed lines and the new
boundaries with solid lines. The appropriate certification set forth in ARM
24.183.1104(1)(f) must be included on the certificate of survey or amended
plat.
         (d)   When certificates of survey are filed with the Meagher County
Clerk and Recorder's Office with the purpose of relocating boundary lines or
aggregation of lots, the certificate of survey must be accompanied by deed(s)
or other conveyance document(s) to effectuate the exemption and describe the
entire newly described parcel(s) or that portion of the parcel(s) being
affected.
   (D)   Exemptions to provide security for a construction mortgage, lien or
trust indenture, M.C.A. § 76-3-201(1)(b), commonly known as "mortgage
exemptions".
      (1)   Statement of intent. Under policies by many lending institutions
and federal home loan guaranty programs, a landowner who is buying a tract with
financing or through a contract for deed is required to hold title to the
specific site on which the residence will be built. The intended purpose of
this exemption is to allow a landowner who is buying a tract using financing or
contract for deed to segregate a smaller parcel from the tract for security for
financing construction of a home on the property. This exemption is not
available to simply create a parcel without review by claiming that the parcel
will be used for security to finance construction of a home or other structure
on the proposed lot. This exemption may not be properly invoked unless (1) the
claimant is purchasing a larger tract through financing or a contract for deed
(and thus does not hold title) and (2) a lending institution requires the
landowner to hold title to a smaller parcel of the tract because the smaller
tract is required as security for a building construction loan.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   These regulations do not require a certificate of survey or
amended plat to invoke the use of the exemption claimed under M.C.A. § 76-3-201
(1)(b). Surveys for this exemption are at the discretion of the claimants,
lending institutions, surveyors, etc., but are encouraged to provide proper
legal descriptions in the event of default of the lien and creation of the
tract(s).
         (b)   When this exemption is to be used, the landowner shall submit
the following along with an affidavit affirming entitlement to the claimed
exemption to the Administrator:
            1.   A statement of how many parcels within the original tract
would be created by use of the exemption;
            2.   The deed, trust indenture or mortgage for the exempt parcel
(which states that the tract of land is being created only to secure a
construction mortgage, lien or trust indenture);
            3.   A statement explaining who will have title to and possession
of the balance of the original parcel after title to the exempted parcel is
conveyed;
            4.   A signed statement from a lending institution that the
creation of the exempted parcel is necessary to secure a construction loan for
buildings or other improvements on the parcel; and
            5.   Documentation that the lending institution is a financial or
lending institution registered to do business in the State of Montana.
         (c)   The use of this exemption may be deemed an attempt to evade the
MSPA if:
            1.   It will create more than one building site;
            2.   The financing is not for construction on the exempted parcel;
            3.   The person named in the statement explaining who would have
possession of the remainder parcel if title to the exempted parcel is conveyed
is anyone other than the borrower of funds for construction;
            4.   Title to the exempted parcel will not be initially obtained by
the lending institution if foreclosure occurs; or
            5.   It appears that the principal reason the parcel is being
created is to create a building site and using the parcel to secure a
construction loan is a secondary purpose.
   (E)   Court ordered divisions (M.C.A. § 76-3-201(1)(a)).
      (1)   Statement of intent. The intent of this exemption is to provide for
divisions of land created by order of any court of record in this state or by
operation of law or that, in the absence of agreement between the parties to
the sale, could be created by an order of any court in this state pursuant to
the law of eminent domain, M.C.A. Title 70, Chapter 30.
      (2)   Requirement. Pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-201(2) before a court of
record orders a division of land, the court shall notify the City Council of
the pending division and allow the City of White Sulphur Springs to present
written comments on the division.
   (F)   Condominiums, townhomes, or townhouses (M.C.A. § 76-3-203 MCA).
      (1)   Statement of intent. Generally, condominiums, Townhomes or
Townhouses, as those terms are defined in M.C.A. § 70-23-102, are subject to
review as subdivisions as described in the MSPA, but under certain
circumstances they may be exempt from review pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-203.
      (2)   Exemption. Condominiums, townhomes or townhouses, as those terms
are defined in M.C.A. § 70-23-102 are exempt from subdivision review if:
         (a)   They are constructed on lots subdivided in compliance with these
regulations and the approval of the original subdivision of land expressly
contemplated the construction of the condominiums, townhomes or townhouses and
any applicable park dedication requirements in M.C.A. § 76-3-621 MCA and §
11.1.99(D) of these regulations are complied with; or
         (b)   The condominium, townhome or townhouse proposal is in
conformance with applicable local zoning regulations when local zoning
regulations are in effect.
      (3)   Requirements.
         (a)   To use the exemption, a Declaration of Unit Ownership must
include an exhibit containing certification from the City of White Sulphur
Springs that the condominiums or townhouses are exempt from review under M.C.A.
§ 76-3-203 (see M.C.A. § 70-23-301). In order to ensure maintenance of common
areas in townhouse developments are addressed pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance,
Declarations are required for townhouse developments to comply with zoning.
         (b)   Only the City of White Sulphur Springs has the authority to
determine whether a division of land is exempt from subdivision review. The act
of recording a declaration does not establish the declaration's validity simply
because the Meagher County Clerk and Recorder's Office accepted and recorded
it.
         (c)   To obtain City of White Sulphur Springs certification that the
condominiums, townhomes, or townhouses are exempt from review as a subdivision,
the person seeking the use of the exemption shall submit evidence of and an
affidavit affirming entitlement to the exemption to the Administrator, who will
review the documents under §
11.1.112(F) above; however, an exemption claimed pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-3-203
is not subject to examination under the Exemption Evasion Criteria of §
11.1.112(F)(2) above.
   (G)   Exemptions not requiring action by the City of White Sulphur Springs.
The exemptions listed in this subsection (G) are presumed not be intended for
the purpose of evading the MSPA if properly invoked, and therefore do not
require submittal of information to the City of White Sulphur Springs for
examination under the General Procedures for Exemptions as outlined in §
11.1.111  above. However, if a survey is to be filed with the Meagher County
Clerk and Recorder's Office to utilize the exemption, the survey is subject to
examination by the examining land surveyor for compliance with the uniform
standards.
      (1)   A division of land created by lease or rental of contiguous
airport-related land owned by a city, a county, the state, or a municipal or
regional airport authority is not subject to the subdivision review
requirements of this chapter or the MSPA, provided that the lease or rental is
for onsite weather or air navigation facilities, the manufacture, maintenance,
and storage of aircraft, or air carrier-related activities (M.C.A. § 76-3-205
(1)).
      (2)   A division of state-owned land is not subject to the subdivision
review requirements of this chapter or the MSPA unless the division creates a
second or subsequent parcel from a single tract for sale, rent, or lease for
residential purposes after July 1, 1974 (M.C.A. § 76-3-205(2)).
      (3)   Subdivision review requirements of these regulations and the MSPA
do not apply to deeds, contracts, leases, or other conveyances which were
executed prior to July 1, 1974 (M.C.A. § 76-3-206).
      (4)   Instruments of transfer of land which are acquired for state
highways may refer by parcel and project number to state highway plans which
have been recorded in compliance with M.C.A. § 60-2-209 and are exempted from
the surveying and platting requirements of the MSPA and these regulations. If
such parcels are not shown on highway plans of record, instruments of transfer
of such parcels shall be accompanied by and refer to appropriate certificates
of survey and plats when presented for recording. A survey or plat for the
recordation of an instrument transferring title to a remainder that
was created when the state obtained property for a highway rights-of-way is not
required (44 A.G. Opinion 25 (1992)).
      (5)   The following divisions in M.C.A. § 76-3-201 not previously
included in this chapter:
         (a)   A division of land that creates an interest in oil, gas,
minerals, or water that is severed from the surface ownership of real property;
         (b)   A division of land that creates cemetery lots;
         (c)   A division of land that is created by the reservation of a life
estate;
         (d)   A division of land that is created by lease or rental for
farming and agricultural purposes;
         (e)   A division of land that is in a location over which the state
does not have jurisdiction; and
         (f)   A division of land that is created for rights-of-way or utility
sites. A subsequent change in the use of the land to a residential, commercial,
or industrial use is subject to the requirements of the MSPA and these
regulations.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 3-3-2025, eff. 4-4-2025)
CHAPTER 2: ANNEXATION
Section
11.2.1 Title
11.2.2 Authority
11.2.3 Severability
11.2.4 Purpose
11.2.5 Annexation map
11.2.6 Criteria for annexation
11.2.7 Administrative procedure
11.2.8 Service plan
§ 11.2.1 TITLE.
   These regulations will be known and may be cited as the "Annexation
Regulations of the City of White Sulphur Springs (City)" or "these
regulations".
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.2 AUTHORITY.
   Authority for these regulations is contained in M.C.A. Title 7, Ch. 2, Parts
42 - 48. References to the Montana Code Annotated includes references to any
successor provision, as applicable.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.3 SEVERABILITY.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction holds any word, phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section or other part of these regulations invalid, that
judgment will affect only the part held invalid.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.4 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these provisions is to promote the orderly and
coordinated annexation of land into the City of White Sulphur Springs by
providing standards as to when and how and under what circumstances such
decisions shall be managed. It is meant to provide guidance to other agencies,
including Meagher County, to the extent they are involved in this process or
have need to refer to this process. These regulations will be used to review
all annexation requests as authorized by state law. In particular, the City
maintains a preference for annexation under the provisions of M.C.A. Title 7,
Chapter 2, Part 46, "Annexation by Petition." And, as to other forms of
annexation, where allowed by state law, all references to imposition of
conditions for approval of an addition to the municipality, or to the
provisions of services, shall be as provided herein.
   (B)   Annexation shall be based on criteria which allows the City of White
Sulphur Springs to be forward-thinking, and to consider the needs of the
citizens to maintain logical and livable patterns for land use which benefits
all the members of the community.
   (C)   The City of White Sulphur Springs shall be thoughtful and selective in
its annexation decisions based on the following:
      (1)   Growth that the City accepts would make sense economically and
logistically, providing efficient sewer, water, solid waste, emergency
protection, and other necessary public services to the citizenry.
      (2)   The justifications for this approach include:
         (a)   The proximity to public services, which affects the cost of
providing such services,
         (b)   The effective and efficient provision of such services.
      (3)   The City will work to promote infill development and development
that is adjacent to the city limits.
      (4)   Consideration will be given to commercial development and how such
development will impact how areas are considered and whether open space is
conserved.
      (5)   These regulations will serve to ensure that the expansion of the
City limits of White Sulphur Springs will be consistent with the City of White
Sulphur Springs and Meagher County Consolidated City/County Growth Policy
(hereinafter Consolidated Growth Policy).
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.5 ANNEXATION MAP.
   (A)   The Future Annexation Map of the City of White Sulphur Springs will be
used as a reference guide and will be reconsidered at least every 10 years, or
upon a grant of annexation.
   (B)   It will be maintained in the Office of the City Clerk/Treasurer and
current copies will be posted on the City website. Annexation may result in an
updated or altered map reflecting any change in land use needs.
   (C)   An update to this map will not require a re-adoption of this
ordinance. As the map is updated based on annexation, and as infrastructure is
expanded, future annexations shall be based upon the most recently adopted map
according to the files of the City Clerk. Adoption of a new or updated map will
be by resolution, and may coincide with the adoption or revision of the
Annexation Service Plan.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.6 CRITERIA FOR ANNEXATION.
   Based on the Annexation Map then in existence and the ordinances and
policies of White Sulphur Springs, the following criteria will be used in
making determinations as to whether or not to approve annexation requests:
   (A)   Whenever possible, the property under consideration for annexation
must fall within the boundary of the City's most current Fut Annexation Map.
Guidance may also be provided by consulting the City of White Sulphur Springs'
Capital Improvements Plan, which includes maps of the locations of existing
infrastructure, including water and sewer lines.
   (B)   It is the City's policy not to provide City services to properties
located outside of the City limits, primarily in order to avoid limiting or
reducing City services available to current users within the City limits, and
to provide for a logical and planned utility extension process, thereby
encouraging infill development and new development that is located adjacent to
the current City limits. Properties requesting City services must be annexed to
receive services from the City. The extension of City utilities beyond City
boundaries, particularly water and sewer, will not be undertaken in a chaotic
and rushed manner. Exceptions to this policy must provide clear and convincing
justification to warrant the extension in a reasonable and planned manner.
   (C)   Impacts on utilities, including but not limited to, the municipal
water system and sewer treatment system, transportation system, solid waste
collection, and emergency services will be considered when contemplating
annexation.
      (1)   When an annexation request is made, the City will consider whether
the following improvements exist and whether the improvements comply with
current City standards:
         (a)   Drinking water and sewer lines.
         (b)   Drinking water capacity.
         (c)   Place of use for water rights.
         (d)   Wastewater treatment capacity.
         (e)   Streets.
         (f)   Sidewalks.
         (g)   Curbs and gutters.
         (h)   Stormwater drainage.
         (i)   Streetlights.
         (j)   Fire hydrants.
      (2)   To facilitate such consideration, the City may require a "community
impact report" to be prepared at the expense of the applicant(s) requesting
annexation. A community impact report shall include technical studies that
discuss the current capacity and capabilities of the above-identified services
and what additions must be made to serve any new annexations.
      (3)   If listed improvements do not exist, the applicant will likely be
required to install that infrastructure or post a bond for the installation of
such infrastructure at a future date.
      (4)   The timing of installation of infrastructure may be altered in the
case of new subdivisions. These improvements will be a condition of final plat
approval.
      (5)   A Waiver of Special Improvement District (SID) protest may be
required.
   (D)   The annexation of properties that are wholly surrounded by the City
limits of White Sulphur Springs are advantageous. Requests for such annexation
will be given high priority.
   (E)   The White Sulphur Springs Subdivision Regulations require that all
subdivisions be served by municipal water facilities and municipal sewer
treatment facilities. To obtain these services, annexation must occur before
the submission of a preliminary plat and subdivision application to the City of
White Sulphur Springs. Timing for extension of utilities may be conditioned as
a part of the subdivision approval process. Any proposed subdivision
application shall be submitted within six (6) months of the property being
approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Petitioners for annexation may be asked to transfer any water rights
they hold to the City of White Sulphur Springs to facilitate the provision of
adequate water supply to the property proposed for annexation. This may include
water rights for irrigation, domestic use, or stock watering.
   (G)   These regulations are not meant to serve to prohibit any annexation
request which is deemed by the City Council to be in the best interest of the
City. However, the City may deny any annexation request which is determined not
to comply with these regulations and the Annexation Service Plan.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.7 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
The following procedure will apply when processing annexation requests:
   (A)   The applicant(s) shall submit a completed annexation application form
to the City Clerk. The application form may be found on file in the Office of
the City Clerk or online on the City's website.
   (B)   The application will be reviewed by the Mayor or designee, typically
the City Engineer, to ensure it is complete. This review may take from five to
20 days to complete depending on format and transmission of application and
materials. Requests for additional information are an indication the
application is incomplete and further review is needed or required. The
timeline for review is extended until such additional information is provided.
      (1)   If the application/petition for annexation meets the terms of
M.C.A. § 7-2-4601(2), and the fees associated with the application and the
costs of the election are paid, then the matter will be submitted to the voters
in conformance with M.C.A. § 7-2-4602 and Title 13, Chapter 1, Part 4.
      (2)   If the application/petition for annexation meets the terms of
M.C.A. § 7-2-4601(3), then upon determination of completeness and payment of
all fees associated with the application, the matter will be referred to the
Consolidated City/County Planning Board ("Planning Board") for a review and
hearing as a public meeting work session.
      (3)   The Planning Board work session shall be open to the public and
public comment, both in person and in written form, will be accepted.
      (4)   Written comments shall be provided to City Hall or to
wss@itstriangle.com. Any written comments received after noon the day of the
scheduled meeting will be held and not transmitted to the Planning Board, but
will become part of the material considered at the City Council hearing.
      (5)   The applicant/petitioner, or a knowledgeable designee, must attend
the Planning Board work session.
      (6)   During the work session, the applicant/petitioner may be asked
questions as to the material submitted and may be asked to provide supplemental
material. If supplemental material is required, the work session shall be
continued to another date to allow the applicant/petitioner to submit the
requested material.
      (7)   Any delay in providing material, or supplementing material, during
this process shall be deemed to suspend any time for processing the
application/petition as may be required by state statute and shall be assessed
to the applicant/petitioner.
      (8)   Failure of the applicant/petitioner to attend the Planning Board
work session will result in the application being returned to the City as
"unable to review" and will require the applicant/petitioner to re-submit the
application and all materials with the payment of corresponding fees, and to
have the matter resubmitted to the Planning Board for a future meeting when all
materials and fees have been satisfied. If the basis for non-attendance is
determined by the Mayor or designee to be excusable, fees may be reduced or
waived, as appropriate.
      (9)   When the work session of the Planning Board is concluded, all
comments regarding the application/petition, together with any recommendations
from the Planning Board, shall be forwarded to the City Council for
consideration during the hearing.
   (C)   At such time as the Planning Board forwards the comments, and any
recommendations, from the work session to the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall
cause to be published a Notice of Intent to Annex and an item will be placed on
the next available Council Agenda to consider a Resolution of Intent to Annex
and set the date and time for the public hearing. The period between the
publication and the hearing shall be sufficient to allow for public comment to
be submitted.
   (D)   The Notice of Intent to Annex shall be published and posted once a
week, for two weeks, in accordance with the current practice and state law.
Public comments shall be collected for at least 20 days after the first
publication date.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall send a copy of the Resolution of Intent to Annex
to all property owners involved as required by statute (together with either
the exhibits or a link to the exhibits depending on size) and shall post at
City Hall the petition/application and exhibits for examination during normal
business hours. The same shall also be posted on the City website.
   (F)   The scheduled public hearing will be held on the date and time as
specified in the Notice of Intent, or as continued, with appropriate Notice.
The applicant/petitioner, or a knowledgeable designee, shall be in attendance
at the public hearing.
      (1)   At the conclusion of the public hearing, the Council will determine
if the annexation request is in the best interest of the City and its
landowners, and whether services can be provided.
      (2)   If the Council determines it is in the best interests of all
concerned, they shall adopt the resolution to annex stating services that will
be provided by the City and any requirements which must be met by the landowner
(s) requesting annexation. The resolution shall be incorporated into the
minutes of the Council and will become effective 30 days after its passage.
   (G)   Failure of the applicant/petitioner to attend the City Council hearing
will result in the matter being denied and will require the applicant/
petitioner to re-submit the application and all materials with the payment of
corresponding fees. If there are no changes to the application when
resubmitted, the Mayor or designee may determine that the Consolidated Planning
Board meeting requirement may be waived, and the matter reset as provided in
(C) above.
   (H)   In the event the matter is submitted under M.C.A. § 7-2-4601(2) then
upon the election results being determined, this matter will come before the
City Council within 30 days for adoption of a resolution providing for
annexation in compliance with M.C.A. § 7-2-4606.
   (I)   After the Resolution to Annex is adopted and becomes effective, a
copy, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map showing the corporate
limits of said municipality as altered and changed, shall be filed in the
office of the County Clerk and Recorder, County Assessor, Volunteer Fire
Department, County Sheriff's Office, Public Works Department, and City
Engineer. A copy of the notice withdrawing the property from the rural Fire
District will accompany the package sent to the Clerk and Recorder and the
Meagher County DES office.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
§ 11.2.8 SERVICE PLAN.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall maintain on file an Annexation Service Plan as
adopted by resolution of the City Council. This "Service Plan" shall identify
the available services of the City, the capacity of those services based on
population and projected demand for the services, the funding options for
expansion of those services, and the policies for provision of services to
annexed land/property, and for existing developed areas. This Service Plan may
be updated as conditions change, but shall be fully reviewed and updated at
least once every five (5) years.
   (B)   Applicants for annexation shall, as part of their petition, review the
Service Plan in effect, and shall be subject to any terms or conditions within
the Service Plan which are deemed appropriate to the application/petition.
(Ord. 2025-2, 4-15-2025, eff. 5-15-2025)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to 1985 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
M.C.A. Reference Code Section
M.C.A. Reference                        Code Section
Title 2, Ch. 6, Part 10                 2.2.1,
                                        2.2.2
3-11-101 et seq.                        1.9.1
Title 3, Ch. 10, Part 2                 1.9.3
Title 3, Ch. 11, Part 2                 1.9.1
Title 7, Ch. 2, Parts 42-48             11.2.2
Title 7, Ch. 2, Part 46                 11.2.4
7-1-4111                                11.1.51
7-1-4144                                2.2.3
7-2-4601(2)                             11.2.7
7-2-4601(3)                             11.2.7
7-2-4602                                11.2.7
7-2-4606                                11.2.7
7-5-2501                                11.1.17
7-5-2502                                11.1.17
7-5-4203                                1.1.2
7-6-616                                 2.1.2
7-11-102                                7.5.12
Title 7, Ch. 13, Parts 22 and 23        11.1.17
Title 7, Ch. 13, Parts 42, 43, and 44   11.1.17
Title 7, Ch. 13, Part 43                8.1.5,
                                        8.4.6
7-14-2201, et seq.                      11.1.100
7-14-2201(4)                            11.1.100
7-14-2616                               11.1.17
7-14-2617                               11.1.17
7-14-4114                               11.1.17
Title 13, Ch. 1, Part 4                 11.2.7
15-1-101                                11.1.17
15-24-201                               4.2.2
Title 16                                5.10.1
Title 16, Ch. 1, Part 1                 3.1.1
16-1-106                                5.10.1
16-6-305                                5.10.4
                                        3.6.1,
Title 16, Ch. 12                        3.6.2,
                                        3.6.3
16-12-101 et seq.                       3.2.3
16-12-211                               3.6.3
16-12-301                               3.6.3
17-5-1106                               2.2.3
18-2-201                                3.5.1
22-1-1103                               2.2.3
Title 23, Ch. 5                         3.2.3
25-10-201                               1.4.1
Title 37, Ch. 67                        11.1.17
44-5-301 through 44-5-311               2.2.3
Title 45                                3.6.1
Title 45, Ch. 5, Part 7                 3.2.5
45-2-104                                6.2.1
45-5-601                                3.2.5
45-5-625(5)(a)                          5.4.17
45-8-111                                4.2.3
Title 49, Ch. 4, Part 3                 6.4.11
49-4-302                                6.1.16
Title 50                                9.1.1
50-37-107                               5.8.3
50-46-332                               2.2.3
50-63-403                               2.2.3
60-2-209                                11.1.112
Title 61                                6.1.16
61-1-101(6)(a)                          4.2.2
61-1-101(10)                            6.1.1
61-1-101(47)                            6.1.1
61-7-114                                2.2.3
Title 61, Ch. 8, Part 10                6.2.1
61-8-102                                6.1.1
61-8-1002(1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), (1)(d) 6.2.1
61-8-1016                               6.2.1
Title 61, Ch. 9                         6.1.1
61-9-401                                6.1.1
                                        6.1.1,
61-9-402                                6.1.2,
                                        6.2.2
69-3-101                                11.1.17
Title 70, Ch. 23                        11.1.17
Title 70, Ch. 30                        11.1.112
70-23-102                               11.1.112
70-23-102(5)                            11.1.17
70-23-102(14)                           11.1.17
70-23-301                               11.1.112
70-30-102                               11.1.112
75-10-501                               4.2.2
Title 76, Ch. 1                         11.1.17
Title 76, Chapters 1 through 5          10.1.1
76-1-103(4)                             11.1.17
76-1-107(2)                             11.1.49
76-1-601(3)(h)                          11.1.81
Title 76, Chapter 2                     11.1.28
76-2-302(4)                             11.1.17
                                        11.1.2,
                                        11.1.16,
Title 76, Chapter 3                     11.1.17,
                                        11.1.27,
                                        11.1.81
Title 76, Chapter 3, Part 2             11.1.110
76-3-102                                11.1.4
76-3-103                                11.1.26
76-3-103(1)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(2)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(3)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(4)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(5)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(6)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(7)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(9)                             11.1.17
76-3-103(11)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(12)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(13)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(14)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(15)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(16)                            11.1.17
76-3-103(17)                            11.1.17
76-3-104                                11.1.26
76-3-105                                11.1.9
                                        11.1.17,
76-3-201                                11.1.110,
                                        11.1.112
76-3-201(1)(a)                          11.1.112
76-3-201(1)(b)                          11.1.112
76-3-201(2)                             11.1.112
76-3-203                                11.1.112
76-3-205                                11.1.112
76-3-205(1)                             11.1.112
76-3-205(2)                             11.1.112
76-3-206                                11.1.112
                                        11.1.17,
76-3-207                                11.1.110,
                                        11.1.111
76-3-207(1)(a)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(1)(b)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(1)(c)                          11.1.43,
                                        11.1.112
76-3-207(1)(d)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(1)(e)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(1)(f)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(2)(b)                          11.1.112
76-3-207(4)(c)                          11.1.111
76-3-207(5)                             11.1.112
76-3-209(2) through (5)                 11.1.27
76-3-211                                11.1.112
76-3-211(1)                             11.1.112
76-3-211(1)(a)                          11.1.112
76-3-211(2)                             11.1.112
76-3-301                                11.1.9
76-3-305                                11.1.17
Title 76, Ch. 3, Part 4                 11.1.111
76-3-401                                11.1.111
76-3-501                                11.1.4
76-3-503                                11.1.8
76-3-504(1)(i)                          11.1.46
                                        11.1.110,
76-3-504(1)(p)                          11.1.111,
                                        11.1.112
76-3-504(1)(q)(i)                       11.1.42
76-3-504(1)(q)(ii)                      11.1.42
76-3-504(1)(q)(iii)                     11.1.46
76-3-504(1)(q)(iv)                      11.1.42
76-3-504(1)(r)                          11.1.51
76-3-506                                11.1.83
76-3-507                                11.1.84,
                                        11.1.95
76-3-507(4)                             11.1.95
76-3-510                                11.1.95
76-3-511                                11.1.4
76-3-601                                11.1.43
76-3-601(1) through (3)                 11.1.27
76-3-601(2)(c)                          11.1.43
76-3-601(2)(d)                          11.1.43
76-3-603                                11.1.27
76-3-604                                11.1.27,
                                        11.1.81
76-3-604(1)(a)                          11.1.44
76-3-604(1)(b)                          11.1.44
76-3-604(2)                             11.1.45
76-3-604(2)(a)                          11.1.45
76-3-604(3)                             11.1.44,
                                        11.1.45
76-3-604(4)                             11.1.45
76-3-604(4)(a)                          11.1.45
76-3-604(7)(b)                          11.1.51
76-3-604(9)                             11.1.3
76-3-605                                11.1.27
76-3-605(3)                             11.1.49
76-3-605(4)                             11.1.49
76-3-608                                11.1.27,
                                        11.1.81
                                        11.1.27,
76-3-608(3)                             11.1.47,
                                        11.1.49,
                                        11.1.51
                                        11.1.17,
76-3-608(3)(a)                          11.1.27,
                                        11.1.81
76-3-608(3)(b)(i)                       11.1.81
76-3-608(3)(b)(ii)                      11.1.81
76-3-608(3)(b)(iii)                     11.1.81
76-3-608(4)                             11.1.81
76-3-608(5)                             11.1.81
76-3-608(5)(a)                          11.1.51
76-3-608(5)(b)                          11.1.51
76-3-608(6)                             11.1.81
76-3-608(7)                             11.1.81,
                                        11.1.95
76-3-608(8)                             11.1.81
76-3-608(9)                             11.1.46,
                                        11.1.81
76-3-608(c)                             11.1.81
76-3-608(d)                             11.1.81
76-3-609                                11.1.17,
                                        11.1.27
76-3-609(2)                             11.1.17
76-3-609(2)(a)                          11.1.45
76-3-609(4)                             11.1.45
76-3-609(6)                             11.1.17,
                                        11.1.27
76-3-610                                11.1.84
76-3-610(1)                             11.1.47
76-3-610(2)                             11.1.84
76-3-611                                11.1.70
76-3-611(1)(a)                          11.1.82
76-3-611(1)(b)                          11.1.82
76-3-611(2)(a)                          11.1.82
76-3-611(3)                             11.1.70
76-3-612                                11.1.82
76-3-615                                11.1.50
76-3-615(4)                             11.1.50
76-3-617                                11.1.60
76-3-620                                11.1.27,
                                        11.1.81
                                        11.1.28,
76-3-621                                11.1.99,
                                        11.1.112
76-3-621(3)(c)                          11.1.28
76-3-621(5)                             11.1.99
76-3-621(5)(b)(ii)                      11.1.28,
                                        11.1.99
76-3-621(7)(a)                          11.1.99
76-3-621(7)(b)                          11.1.99
76-3-621(8)(a)                          11.1.99
76-3-621(9)                             11.1.99
                                        11.1.43,
76-3-622                                11.1.81,
                                        11.1.98
76-3-623                                11.1.27
76-3-625                                11.1.51
76-3-625(3)                             11.1.27
76-3-628                                11.1.17
                                        11.1.17,
Title 76, Chapter 4                     11.1.81,
                                        11.1.98,
                                        11.1.112
Title 76, Ch. 4. Part 1                 11.1.17
76-4-102                                11.1.81
76-4-102(16)                            11.1.28
76-4-125(2)(c)                          11.1.112
Title 76, Chapter 5                     11.1.96
76-5-103(8)                             11.1.17
76-5-103(9)                             11.1.17
76-5-103(10)                            11.1.17
76-5-103(11)                            11.1.17
76-2-411 et seq.                        9.5.1
76-13-145                               11.1.81
77-1-101                                7.5.3
87-3-145                                5.3.4
87-6-216                                5.3.4
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Reference Code Section
1985 Code Reference Code Section
1.02.010            1.1.1
1.08.010            1.8.1
1.08.020            1.8.2
2.02.010            1.7.1
2.04.010            1.7.2
2.04.020            1.7.3
2.04.030            1.7.4
2.06.010            1.6.15
2.06.020            1.6.16
2.06.030            1.6.17
2.06.040            1.6.18
2.06.050            1.6.19
2.06.060            1.6.20
2.08.010            1.6.35
2.08.020            1.6.36
2.08.030            1.6.37
2.08.040            1.6.38
2.08.050            1.6.39
2.08.060            1.6.40
2.08.070            1.6.41
2.08.080            1.6.42
2.08.090            1.6.43
2.08.100            1.6.44
2.08.110            1.6.45
2.10.010            1.7.5
2.10.020            1.7.5
2.12.010            1.9.1
2.12.020            1.9.2
2.12.030            1.9.3
2.12.040            1.9.4
2.12.050            1.9.5
2.14.010            1.7.6
2.14.020            1.7.6
2.14.030            1.7.6
2.18.020            1.7.7
2.32.010            1.7.8
2.32.020            1.7.8
2.32.030            1.7.8
3.04.010            2.1.1
3.04.020            2.1.2
4.08.010            8.1.1
5.04.010            3.2.1
5.04.020            3.2.2
5.04.030            3.2.3
5.04.040            3.2.4
5.04.050            3.2.5
5.04.060            3.2.6
5.04.070            3.2.7
5.04.080            3.2.8
5.06.010            3.3.1
5.06.020            3.3.2
5.06.030            3.3.3
5.06.050            3.3.4
5.08.010            3.1.1
5.08.020            3.1.2
5.08.030            3.1.3
5.08.040            3.1.4
5.08.050            3.1.5
5.18.010            3.4.1
5.18.020            3.4.2
5.18.030            3.4.4
5.18.040            3.4.5
5.20.010            3.5.1
5.22.050            3.6.3
7.02.020            4.2.5
7.02.050            4.2.8
7.04.010            4.3.1
7.04.020            4.3.2
7.04.030            4.3.3
7.06.020            4.4.2
7.06.030            4.4.3
7.06.040            4.4.4
7.06.050            4.4.5
7.08.010            4.2.10
8.04.010            5.2.30
8.04.020            5.2.31
8.04.030            5.2.32
8.04.040            5.2.33
8.04.050            5.2.34
8.06.010            5.3.1
8.06.020            5.3.2
8.06.040            5.3.4
9.02.020            5.4.1
9.02.030            5.4.2
9.02.040            5.4.3
9.02.050            5.4.4
9.02.070            5.4.5
9.02.090            5.4.6
9.02.100            5.4.7
9.02.120            5.4.8
9.02.130            5.4.9
9.02.140            5.4.10
9.02.150            5.4.11
9.02.160            5.4.12
9.02.170            5.4.13
9.02.180            5.4.14
9.02.200            5.4.15
9.02.210            5.4.16
9.02.220            5.4.17
9.02.230            5.4.18
9.02.240            5.4.19
9.02.250            5.4.20
9.02.260            5.4.21
9.02.280            5.4.22
9.02.310            5.4.23
9.02.320            5.4.24
9.02.330            5.4.25
9.02.350            5.4.26
9.02.360            5.4.27
9.02.380            5.4.28
9.04.010            5.6.1
9.04.020            5.6.2
9.04.030            5.6.3
9.04.040            5.6.4
9.04.050            5.6.5
9.04.060            5.6.6
9.08.010            5.7.1
9.08.020            5.7.2
9.08.030            5.7.3
9.08.040            5.7.4
9.08.050            5.7.5
9.08.060            5.7.6
9.10.010            5.5.1
9.10.020            5.5.2
9.10.030            5.5.3
9.10.040            5.5.4
9.10.050            5.5.5
9.10.060            5.5.6
9.10.070            5.5.7
9.10.080            5.5.8
9.14.010            5.9.1
9.14.030            5.9.2
9.14.040            5.9.3
9.16.010            5.10.1
9.16.020            5.10.2
9.16.030            5.10.3
9.16.040            5.10.4
10.02.010           6.1.1
10.02.020           6.1.2
10.02.030           6.1.3
10.02.040           6.1.4
10.02.050           6.1.5
10.02.060           6.1.6
10.02.070           6.1.7 ,
                    6.1.23
10.02.080           6.1.8
10.02.090           6.1.9
10.02.100           6.1.10
10.02.115           6.1.11
10.02.110           6.1.12
10.02.120           6.1.13
10.02.130           6.1.14
10.02.140           6.1.15
10.02.150           6.1.16
10.03.010           6.1.17
10.03.020           6.1.18
10.03.030           6.1.19
10.03.050           6.1.20
10.03.060           6.1.21
10.03.180           6.1.22
10.03.190           6.1.24
10.03.200           6.1.25
10.03.210           6.1.26
10.03.220           6.1.27
10.04.010           6.2.1
10.04.020           6.2.2
10.06.010           6.4.1
10.06.020           6.4.2
10.06.040           6.4.3
10.06.050           6.4.4
10.06.060           6.4.5
10.06.070           6.4.6
10.06.080           6.4.7
10.06.090           6.4.8
10.06.100           6.4.9
10.06.110           6.4.10
10.06.120           6.4.11
10.06.130           6.4.12
10.06.140           6.4.13
10.06.150           6.4.14
10.08.010           6.6.1
10.08.020           6.6.2
10.08.030           6.6.3
10.08.040           6.6.4
10.08.050           6.6.5
10.08.060           6.6.6
10.08.070           6.6.7
10.08.080           6.6.8
10.08.090           6.6.9
10.10.010           6.5.1
10.12.010           6.3.1
10.12.020           6.3.2
11.06.010           10.1.1  through
                    10.1.7
11.06.020           10.2.1  through
                    10.2.4
11.06.030           10.3.1 ,
                    10.3.2
11.06.040           10.4.1
11.06.050           10.5.1
11.06.060           10.6.1
11.06.070           10.7.1
12.02.010           7.1.1
12.02.020           7.1.2
12.02.030           7.1.3
12.02.040           7.1.4
12.02.050           7.1.5
12.02.060           7.1.6
12.02.070           7.1.7
12.02.080           7.1.8
12.02.090           7.1.9
12.04.010           7.2.1
12.04.020           7.2.2
12.04.030           7.2.3
12.06.010           7.3.1
12.06.020           7.3.2
12.06.030           7.3.3
14.02.010           7.4.1
14.02.020           7.4.2
14.02.030           7.4.3
14.02.040           7.4.4
14.02.050           7.4.5
14.02.060           7.4.6
14.02.070           7.4.7
14.02.080           7.4.8
14.02.090           7.4.9
14.02.100           7.4.10
14.02.110           7.4.11
14.02.120           7.4.12
14.02.130           7.4.13
14.02.140           7.4.14
14.02.150           7.4.15
14.02.160           7.4.16
14.02.170           7.4.17
14.02.180           7.4.18
14.02.190           7.4.19
14.02.200           7.4.20
15.02.010           9.3.1
15.06.010           9.4.1
15.06.020           9.4.2
15.06.030           9.4.3
15.10.010           9.2.1
15.10.020           9.2.2
15.10.030           9.2.3
15.10.040           9.2.4
15.10.050           9.2.5
15.10.060           9.2.6
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
479      12-6-1999   1.9.1 ,
                     1.9.2
508      3-5-2007    3.1.2
530      1-24-2011   3.6.1
549      6-4-2012    8.6.1
559      6-3-2013    9.1.4
569      2-3-2014    6.2.1
566      3-3-2014    2.2.1  through
                     2.2.3
567      5-5-2014    1.4.3
597      - -2018     2.1.3
600      1-7-2019    8.1.32
617      1-6-2020    1.6.21
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
30       12-2-1968   1.5.11
264-266  3-3-1969    4.3.1 —
                     4.3.3
70       12-2-1968   2.1.1
340      11-6-1985   2.1.2
330      3-15-1983   3.2.8
332      4-2-1984    3.2.8
343      5-4-1987    1.9.1  through
                     1.9.5
344      6-4-1987    1.6.17
                     1.6.17 ,
347      6-29-1987   3.2.3 ,
                     3.2.5 ,
                     3.2.7
356      12-7-2015   5.2.1  through
                     5.2.15
                     9.1.1  through
358      12-20-2016  9.1.3 ,
                     9.1.15 ,
                     9.1.16
359      4-18-2017   1.6.1  through
                     1.6.3
360      4-18-2017   1.4.1 ,
                     1.4.2
                     1.1.2 ,
                     1.1.3 ,
                     1.2.1 ,
361      4-18-2017   1.3.1 ,
                     1.4.3 ,
                     1.5.2  through
                     1.5.10
362      11-21-2017  5.11.1  through
                     5.11.5
                     8.1.1  through
                     8.1.31 ,
                     8.2.1  through
                     8.2.11 ,
369      4-1-2018    8.3.1  through
                     8.3.11 ,
                     8.4.1  through
                     8.4.8 ,
                     8.5.1  through
                     8.5.11
364      9-4-2018    8.2.1  through
                     8.2.11
367      11-5-2018   6.4.9
365      12-3-2018   5.8.1  through
                     5.8.7
368      12-3-2018   4.5.1  through
                     4.5.8
370      4-1-2019    9.5.1
372      8-5-2019    5.6.1  through
                     5.6.6
                     6.1.1 ,
                     6.1.2 ,
373      3-3-2020    6.1.10  through
                     6.1.27 ,
                     6.4.1  through
                     6.4.14
                     4.2.1  through
374      3-3-2020    4.2.9 ,
                     4.3.1  through
                     4.3.3
375      9-1-2020    4.3.4 ,
                     4.3.5
376      9-1-2020    8.1.10
378      2-7-2022    3.6.1  through
                     3.6.3
                     Adopting Ordinance,
                     1.5.3 ,
                     1.5.6 ,
                     1.5.8 ,
                     1.6.17 ,
                     1.9.3 ,
                     3.2.3 ,
                     4.4.4 ,
                     5.2.14 ,
2022-379 - -2022     5.4.5 ,
                     5.4.12 ,
                     5.4.22 ,
                     5.9.1 ,
                     5.9.2 ,
                     5.9.3 ,
                     6.2.1 ,
                     8.1.5 ,
                     8.1.7 ,
                     8.4.6
                     1.7.1 ,
                     1.7.7 ,
                     4.4.2 ,
                     8.1.2 ,
                     8.1.4 ,
                     8.1.14 ,
                     8.1.19 ,
                     8.1.20 ,
                     8.1.24 ,
                     8.1.29 ,
2023-2   2-21-2023   8.1.32 ,
                     8.2.2 ,
                     8.2.4  through
                     8.2.7 ,
                     8.2.9 ,
                     8.2.10 ,
                     8.3.1  through
                     8.3.5 ,
                     8.3.10 ,
                     8.5.2 ,
                     8.5.6 ,
                     8.5.10
                     4.3.2 ,
2023-3   2-21-2023   4.3.3 ,
                     4.3.6
2023-1A  3-6-2023    1.5.4
                     7.1.9 ,
2023-4   6-5-2023    7.2.1 ,
                     7.2.3 ,
                     7.2.4
2024-1   5-6-2024    1.6.35
2024-2   7-1-2024    7.5.1  through
                     7.5.17
2024-3   11-19-2024  2.1.2
2024-4   11-19-2024  3.2.1 through
                     3.2.8
2024-5   12-2-2024   8.1.5
                     11.1.1 through
                     11.1.10,
                     11.1.15 through
                     11.1.17,
                     11.1.25 through 11.1.28,
                     11.1.40 through
                     11.1.51,
2025-1   3-3-2025    11.1.60,
                     11.1.70 through
                     11.1.72,
                     11.1.80 through
                     11.1.87,
                     11.1.95 through
                     11.1.101,
                     11.1.110 through
                     11.1.112
2025-2   4-15-2025   11.2.1 through
                     11.2.8
2025-3     6-17-20254-3-2
2025-4   6-2-2025    1-9-3
                    
 
 
