CITY OF BOSTON
CODE OF ORDINANCES
   Current through Ordinance 2024 C. 7, passed 11-16-2024
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f666ad4d3adbff8b5c653a46d004b1daaac33f2f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3806.png]
 
Michelle Wu, Mayor
Councilor Ruthzee Louijeune, President
City Council - 2024
Councilor Liz Breadon              Councilor Enrique J. Pepén
Councilor Gabriela Coletta Zapata  Councilor Julia Mejia
Councilor Sharon Durkan            Councilor Erin J. Murphy
Councilor Tania Fernandes Anderson Councilor Henry Santana
Councilor John Fitzgerald          Councilor Benjamin J. Weber
Councilor Edward M. Flynn          Councilor Brian J. Worrell
Alex Geourntas, City Clerk
Adam Cederbaum, Corporation Counsel
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BOSTON
PREPARED AND DISTRIBUTED BY THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL
JULY 2007
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BOSTON
Section
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BOSTON
DEDICATION
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
FORM OF GOVERNMENT: MODIFIED PLAN A
GENERAL POWERS OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
CITY DISTRICTS
PROCEDURES RELATED TO ELECTIONS
THE FINANCE COMMISSION
PUBLIC SPENDING
THE CITY CLERK AND THE CITY AUDITOR
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITIES
PUBLIC FACILITIES COMMISSION AND SURPLUS PROPERTY
   Miscellaneous Provisions
THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE AND SUPERINTENDENT
APPENDICES
Appendix A:   Ballot Questions (1909, 1948, 1996)
Appendix B:   Statement of Candidacy
Appendix C:   Nomination Petition
Appendix D:   Form for Election Ballots
Appendix E:   Certificate of Appointment for Heads of Departments
Appendix F:   Electoral Districts in the City of Boston (CBC 2-9.2)
Appendix G:   Map of Electoral Districts in the City of Boston (CBC 2-9.2)
Appendix H:   Official Seal, Standard, and Flag of the City of Boston (CBC 1-2)
Appendix I:   Plain Language Version of The Boston City Charter
Appendix J:   Oath of Mayor/City Councillor
Appendix K:   Calendar for Election Cycle
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
 
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BOSTON.
   The Boston City Charter is not contained within a single document. It is “a
series of State statutes and not a single code.” City Council of Boston v.
Mayor of Boston, 383 Mass. 716, 719 (1981). It has also been referred to as “a
patchwork of special acts whose application requires consideration of their
evolution [and scrutiny of the legislative history].” City Council of Boston v.
Mayor of Boston, 24 Mass.App.Ct. 663, 664 (1987). The modern charter is a
collection of laws consisting of the surviving portions of the charter approved
by the Massachusetts Great and General Court (the legislature) in 1909 (Acts of
1909, Chapter 486) as significantly amended with broad strokes in 1948 (Acts of
1948, Chapter 452) and 1951 (Acts of 1951, Chapter 376).
   The modern charter has been further amended with finer strokes throughout
the past century, and several of the most significant pieces of legislation
include the following: Chapter 849 of the Acts of 1969 changed the fiscal year
of Boston and all other municipalities to begin on July first; Chapter 190 of
the Acts of 1982 (“Tregor Bill”) made major changes to the financial operations
of the city and to the budgetary powers of the Mayor and City Council
(furthermore, major amendments to this Act of 1982 appear as Chapter 701 of the
Acts of 1986); Chapter 605 of the Acts of 1982 increased the number of City
Councillors from nine to thirteen and provided that four of the Councillors
shall be elected at-large while nine of the Councillors shall be elected from
equally populous districts; Chapter 108 of the Acts of 1991 replaced the
elected School Committee with a Mayor-appointed board of seven members serving
four-year terms; and Chapter 233 of the Acts of 1993 addressed vacancies in the
office of District City Councillor. The charter is also comprised of or
affected by general laws affecting all municipalities, local options supplied
by the General Court/Governor and approved by the municipal officers, and all
home rule legislation/home rule petitions passed by the Mayor, the City
Council, the General Court, and the Governor.
   Practitioners and scholars should take care when using nomenclature
associated with Boston’s charter. Although the charter is commonly referred to
as a “Plan A” form of government, the City of Boston does not operate under the
provisions of Plan A contained in General Laws Chapter 43. Although they share
the “strong mayor” designation, the City of Boston’s form of government pre-
dates and differs from the several plans in the General Laws, and this minor
confusion has been an unfortunate by-product of the publication of plans of
government in M.G.L.
   The following pages do not contain every special law impacting the
governance of the City of Boston. Instead, they contain a selection of the
most-often sought currently operative portions of the charter. Generally, these
selections relate to public spending, organization of city departments, general
powers of the Mayor and City Council, and procedures relating to elections.
Furthermore, these pages endeavor to be true to the substance of the underlying
laws, but they should not be considered to be a primary source of law. Instead,
they should be corroborated with the original citations and the language of the
underlying Acts.
   Several appendices support the contents of the selections, and a Table of
Authorities listing more than the ingredients of these pages may prove useful
to readers. Two other works containing (and indexing) many of the various laws
which are part of Boston’s historical charter may be valuable to scholars:
“Special Laws Relating to the City of Boston Enacted Prior to January 1, 1938”
and “City of Boston Code (1975).” Both of these books are out of print but are
available in libraries.
--D. Paul Koch, Jr., Legislative Director July 2007
DEDICATION.
   This publication is dedicated to all of the people that have served, are
serving, and will serve as Boston City Councillors. The Councillors, past and
present, have devoted substantial portions of their lives to the service of the
residents of, workers in, and visitors to the City of Boston and its
neighborhoods, and the future Councillors inevitably expect to vigilantly
continue this tireless tradition. The Councillors embody these laws, exercise
these laws, supplement these laws, amend these laws, and bring these laws to
life every day of their call to public service with their actions to
continuously improve the growing and evolving community that is the City of
Boston.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
This collection of pages owes its existence to the countless hours of work of
dedicated Legal Interns of the Boston City Council’s summer programs. Kelly M.
Neumann (New England School of Law ‘04), Kristen R. Green (Suffolk University
Law School ‘04), Steven Archibald (New England School of Law ‘04), Ian N.
Ackerman (Boston University School of Law ‘06), Victoria E. Bembenista (Boston
College Law School ‘06), Timothy J. Durken (Vanderbilt University Law School
‘06), Stefanie Marazzi (Boston University School of Law ‘07), Kristen J. Graves
(New England School of Law ‘07), Ian Smith (Boston University School of Law
‘08), and Rebecca Hermanowicz (Boston University School of Law ‘08) plumbed the
depths of their patience to pursue the minutiae of research, endure the endless
scanning and re-formatting of documents, wrestle with uncountable schemes for
organization of the raw material, and particularize the construction of a
reader-friendly plain language interpretation of the Byzantine text. They
indefatigably exercised their insight and sound judgment to generate this
coherent document. Without their industriousness, determination, and attention
to mind-numbing detail, this snapshot of the Boston City Charter would be
considerably more confusing and infinitely less complete. Wherever their lives
and careers have taken them, I hope that they accept my thanks and the
appreciation of all who read and/or reference this work.
--D. Paul Koch, Jr., Legislative Director July 2007
NOTE
Since 2007, there have been a few amendments to laws referenced in this
document. These updates are reflected in this current version. Practitioners
and scholars should continue to be mindful that this document should not be
considered a primary source of law. We are continuously grateful to the 2007
team for their work, and to the City Council staffers who have carried the
torch since, with special thanks to attorneys Christine O’Donnell and Meghan
Kavanagh, and City Clerk Alex Geourntas.
--Michelle A Goldberg, Staff Director September 2024
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Section 1.   Definitions.
   The following words as used in this act shall, unless the context otherwise
requires, have the following meanings:
   “City”, the city of Boston.
   “Board of election commissioners”, the board of election commissioners of
the city of Boston. “Regular municipal election”, the biennial election held
for electing officers of the city as provided in this act.
   “Preliminary election”, the election held for the purpose of nominating
candidates whose names shall appear on the official ballot at a municipal
election.
   “Proportional representation”, any proportional representation method of
election authorized by chapter fifty-four A of the General Laws.
   “Present form of city government”, the form of city government in effect in
the city when it first adopts one of the three optional plans of government
provided in this act.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 1]
Section 2.   Optional Plans of Government.
   The city, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, may adopt from time to time
at any regular municipal election any one of the optional plans of government
provided in this act and shall thereafter be governed by the provisions of the
plan so adopted until said provisions are superseded by the adoption of another
plan under this act. The inhabitants of the city shall continue to be a
municipal corporation under the name existing at the time of the adoption of
any plan provided in this act, and shall have, exercise and enjoy all the
rights, immunities, powers and privileges, and be subject to all the duties,
liabilities and obligations provided for in this act, or otherwise pertaining
to or incumbent upon said city as a municipal corporation.
None of the legislative powers of the city shall be abridged or impaired by
this act; but all such legislative powers shall be possessed and exercised by
such body as shall be the legislative body of the city under this act.
   Whenever one of the plans provided for in this act shall be adopted, all
ordinances, resolutions, orders or other regulations of the city or of any
authorized body or official thereof, existing at the time when the city adopts
such plan, and not inconsistent with the provisions of the plan adopted, shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed, modified, suspended or
superseded, and all acts and parts of acts relating to the city, so far as
inconsistent with the plan adopted shall be inoperative.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 2]
Section 3.   Selecting a New Plan of Government.
   A petition, as hereinafter described, addressed to the board of election
commissioners and signed by qualified voters of the city to a number equal at
least to ten per cent of the registered voters at the state election next
preceding the filing of the petition may be filed with the board of election
commissioners not later than five o’clock of the afternoon of the first
Wednesday in July next preceding the regular municipal election at which the
question proposed by the petition is to be submitted to a vote of the voters,
and such petition shall set forth any one of the following questions: [See
Appendix A].
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 3]
Section 4.   Reserved.
Section 5.   Reserved.
Section 6.   Time Requirement for a New Plan.
   Whenever one of the plans provided in this act shall be adopted, it shall
continue in force for a period of at least four years from the beginning of the
terms of office of the officials elected thereunder; and no petition proposing
another of said plans shall be filed until after three years from the beginning
of said terms of office.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 6]
Section 7.   Other Requirements for a New Plan.
   The mayor, the city council, the board of election commissioners and the
city clerk in office when any plan set forth in this act has been adopted, or
is proposed for adoption, shall comply with all the requirements of this act
relating to such proposed adoption and to the election of the officers
specified in said plan, in order that all things necessary for the nomination
and election of the officers first to be elected under the provisions of this
act and of the plan so adopted may be done.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 7]
Section 8.   Terms of Office.
   Whenever one of the plans provided in this act shall be adopted, the terms
of office of all elective officers in office, and the position of city manager
if there be one, shall terminate at ten o’clock in the forenoon on the first
Monday of January following the first municipal election held in accordance
with the provisions of the plan so adopted.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 8]
Section 9.   Fiscal and Municipal Year.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July first and shall end on June
thirtieth next following; and the municipal year thereof shall begin on the
first Monday in January and shall continue until the first Monday of the
January next following.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 9 as amended by Acts of 1969, c. 849]
FORM OF GOVERNMENT: MODIFIED PLAN
   A.
   Government by Mayor, City Council, and School
   Committee, Elected at-large with
   Preliminary Elections
   Practitioners and scholars should take care when using nomenclature
associated with Boston’s charter. Although the charter is commonly referred to
as a “Plan A” form of government, the City of Boston does not operate under the
provisions of Plan A contained in General Laws Chapter 43; the City of Boston’s
form of government pre- dates the several plans in the General Laws, and this
confusion has been an unfortunate by-product of the publication of plans of
government in M.G.L.
Section 10.    Plan A.
   The form of government provided in [these] sections ... shall constitute and
be known as Plan A under this act.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 10 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.10]
Section 11.   Three Branches of City Government.
   There shall be in the city a mayor who shall be the chief executive officer
of the city, a city council of nine members which shall be the legislative body
of the city, and a school committee ... which shall have the powers and duties
conferred and imposed by law. [Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.11]
[Without amending this specific section, the number of city council members was
increased to thirteen (nine district councillors and four at-large councillors)
by Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 1. The school committee was reorganized by Acts of
1991, c. 108.]
Section 11A.   Oaths of Office.
   Every person elected mayor and every person elected or chosen city
councillor or school committeemember shall, before entering upon the duties of
his office, take, and subscribe in a book to be kept by the city clerk for the
purpose, the oath of allegiance and oath of office prescribed in the
constitution of this commonwealth and an oath to support the constitution of
the United States. Such oaths shall be administered, to a person elected mayor,
by a justice of the supreme judicial court, a judge of a court of record
commissioned to hold such court within the city or a justice of the peace, and
to a person elected or chosen city councillor or school committeemember, by the
mayor or any of the persons authorized to administer said oaths to a person
elected mayor.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.11A as amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 1]
[See Appendix J]
Section 11B.   Provisions for an Acting Mayor.
   Whenever the mayor is absent from the city or unable from any cause to
perform his duties, and whenever there is a vacancy in the office of mayor from
any cause, the president of the city council, while such absence, inability or
vacancy continues, shall perform the duties of mayor. If there is no president
of the city council or if he also is absent from the city or unable from any
cause to perform such duties, they shall be performed, until there is a mayor
or president of the city council or the mayor or president of the city council
returns or is able to attend to said duties, by such member of the city council
as that body by a vote which, for the purposes of section seventeen D, shall be
deemed to be a vote electing an official, may elect, and until such election by
the city clerk. The person upon whom such duties shall devolve shall be called
“acting mayor” and he shall possess the powers of mayor only in matters not
admitting of delay, but shall have no power to make permanent appointments.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.11B]
GENERAL POWERS OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL.
Section 12. Term of Office for Mayor.
   [A]t every second regular municipal election after a regular municipal
election at which a mayor is elected, a mayor shall be elected at-large to hold
office for the four municipal years following the municipal year in which he is
elected and thereafter until his successor is elected and qualified.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 12 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376 s. 1.12]
Section 13.   Vacancy in the Office of Mayor Requiring Special Municipal
Election.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor within sixteen weeks prior to a
regular municipal election other than a regular municipal election at which a
mayor is elected, or within sixteen months after a regular municipal election,
or if there is a failure to elect a mayor or a person elected mayor resigns or
dies before taking office, the city council shall forthwith adopt an order
calling a special municipal election for the purpose of electing at-large a
mayor for the unexpired term, which election shall be held on such Tuesday, not
less than one hundred and twenty days nor more than one hundred and forty days
after the adoption of such order, as the city council shall in such order fix.
If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor at any other time, a mayor shall be
elected at-large at the next regular municipal election to hold office for a
term expiring at ten o’clock in the forenoon on the first Monday of the fifth
January following his election. A person elected mayor under either of the
foregoing provisions shall take and subscribe the oaths required by section
eleven A as soon as conveniently may be after the issuance to him of his
certificate of election. Such person shall hold office from the time of taking
and subscribing such oaths until the expiration of his term and thereafter
until his successor is elected and qualified. The provisions of this section
shall not apply if a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor in the period
beginning on the date of a regular municipal election at which a new mayor is
elected and ending at the time he takes office.
[Acts of 1948, c. 42, s. 13 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.13 as
further amended by Acts of 1996, c. 328, s. 1]
Section 13A.   Salary of the Mayor.
   The mayor shall be paid an annual salary ... as may from time to time be
fixed by ordinance. The mayor shall not receive for his services any other
compensation or emolument whatever; nor shall he hold any other office of
emolument under the city government.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.13A -- See CBC 2-7.11 and M.G.L. c. 39, s. 6A]
Editor’s Note:
   M.G.L. c. 39, s. 6A Municipal Salaries; Increases and Decreases; Procedure.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any city charter to the contrary, the mayor
and the members of the city council, or other legislative body of a city, shall
receive for their services such salary as the city council or other legislative
body of a city shall by ordinance determine, and shall receive no other
compensation from such city, except that a member of a city council of said
city may receive a salary for serving as an instructor in a municipal college
of such city, except that a member of a city or town council in a municipality
with a city or town council form of government may receive a salary for serving
as a municipal employee of said municipality in lieu of receiving compensation
for serving as a member of said council and except that, in accordance with the
provision of the seventh paragraph of section twenty of chapter two hundred and
sixty-eight A, any elected municipal official, other than a mayor, may choose
to receive either the compensation for such service or compensation for service
as an employee of a housing authority in such municipality, but may not receive
both. No increase or reduction in such salaries shall take effect during the
year in which such increase or reduction is voted, and no change in such
ordinance shall be made between the election of a new council or other
legislative body and the qualification of the new council or other legislative
body. Such ordinance shall be subject to the provisions of sections forty-two,
forty-three and forty-four of chapter forty-three.
Section 14.   Terms of Office for City Councillors.
   There shall be in the city of Boston, a city council to consist of nine
members elected from equally populous districts and four members elected at-
large. [Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 1]
   [Each councillor shall] hold office for the two municipal years following
the municipal year in which he is elected.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.14]
Section 15.   Vacancy in the Office of City Councillor-at-large.
   If at any time a vacancy occurs in the office of city councillor-at-large
for any cause, the city clerk shall within twenty-one calendar days notify the
city council thereof; and within fifteen days after such notification, the
remaining city councillors shall choose, as city councillor-at-large for the
unexpired term, whichever of the defeated candidates for the office of city
councillor-at-large at the regular municipal election at which city
councillors-at-large were elected for the term in which the vacancy occurs, who
are eligible and willing to serve, received the highest number of votes at such
election, or, if there is no such defeated candidate eligible and willing to
serve, a registered voter of the city duly qualified to vote for a candidate
for the office of city councillor-at-large. If the remaining city councillors
fail to choose as hereinbefore provided within fifteen days after the
notification of the city council by the city clerk, the choice shall be made by
the mayor, or, if there is no mayor, by the president of the city council.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 15 as amended by Acts of 1952 c. 190 as amended by
Acts of 1993, c.233, s.1.15 as amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, s. 2]
Section 15A.   Vacancy in the Office of District City Councillor.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of district city councillor more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to a regular municipal election, the city clerk
shall forthwith notify the city council thereof; and at the first city council
meeting after the notice has been read, the city council shall forthwith adopt
an order calling a special preliminary election for the purpose of nominating a
district city councillor for the unexpired term, which election shall be held
on a Tuesday, not less than sixty-two nor more than seventy-six days after the
adoption of such order, as the city council shall in such order fix. The two
candidates for district city councillor receiving the greatest number of votes
at the special preliminary election shall be deemed nominated and their names
shall be placed on the ballot for the special municipal election, which
election shall be held twenty-eight days following the special preliminary
election.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 15 as amended by Acts of 1952, c. 190 as amended by
Acts of 1993, c. 233, s. 1.15A]
Section 15B.   Special Preliminary Elections.
   A call for a special preliminary election as provided in section fifteen A
shall be in effect upon vote of the city council and no such vote shall be
presented to the mayor for his approval notwithstanding the provisions of
section seventeen D. All such special elections as provided in section fifteen
A shall be governed by the provisions of this act except:
      (a) the subscription required by section [twenty-four] shall be done
within ten days of the call,
      (b) no nomination petition shall be issued by the election commission
before the seventh day following the call,
      (c) the nomination petition shall be signed, in the case of a district
city councillor in a special preliminary election by the same number of
signatures as provided in section [twenty-five] for a district city councillor
candidate in a regular preliminary election,
      (d) all nomination petitions shall be filed with the election commission
before five o’clock in the afternoon on the fifteenth day following the
adoption of the order calling a special preliminary election,
      (e) no candidate for district city councillor shall withdraw his name
from nomination after the last day to file objections to nomination petitions,
      (f) the election commission shall complete the certification required by
section [twenty-six] within two weeks of the last day of the refiling of
nomination petitions,
      (g) a nomination petition which has been filed and is in apparent
conformity with the law shall be valid unless written objection thereto is made
by a registered voter of the city. Such objection shall be filed with the
election commission within three days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays following the certification of signatures,
   (h) no candidate shall be substituted as provided for in section [twenty-six
B], and
   (i) notwithstanding the provisions of any General Law to the contrary, a
petition for recount may be filed with the election commission before five
o’clock in the afternoon on the third day following the certification of a
special preliminary election for nominating a district city councillor.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 15 as amended by Acts of 1952, c. 190 as amended by
Acts of 1993, c. 233, s. 1.15B]
Section 16.   Salary of the City Councillors.
   Every city councillor shall be paid an annual salary ... and no other sum
shall be paid from the city treasury for or on account of any personal expenses
directly or indirectly incurred by or in behalf of any city councillor.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s.15 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.16 -- See
CBC 2-8.1 and M.G.L. c. 39, s. 6A]
Editor’s Note:
   The text of M.G.L. c. 39, s. 6A is provided in a previous footnote.
Section 17.   Election of City Council President.
   The city council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members; shall elect from its members by vote of a majority of all the
members a president who when present shall preside at the meetings thereof; and
shall from time to time establish rules for its proceedings. The member eldest
in years shall preside until the president is chosen, and in case of the
absence of the president, until a presiding officer is chosen.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 17 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17]
Section 17A.   Mayor May Summon City Council.
   The mayor may, whenever in his judgment the good of the city requires it,
summon a meeting or meetings of the city council although said council stands
adjourned to a more distant day, and shall cause suitable written notice of
such meeting or meetings to be given to the city councillors.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17A]
Section 17B.   Creation of Offices by City Council.
   The city council may, subject to the approval of the mayor, from time to
time establish such offices, other than that of clerk, as it may deem necessary
for the conduct of its affairs and at such salaries as it may determine, and
abolish such offices or alter such salaries; and without such approval may fill
the offices thus established and remove the incumbents at pleasure. The city
clerk shall act as clerk of the city council.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17B]
Section 17C.   Voting Procedures for Elections by City Council.
   All elections by the city council under any provision of law, including the
choosing of a city councillor under section fifteen, shall be made by a viva
voce vote, each member who is present answering to his name when it is called
by the clerk or other proper officer, and stating the name of the person for
whom he votes, or declining to vote, as the case may be; and the clerk or other
proper officer shall record every such vote. No such election shall be valid
unless it is made as aforesaid.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17C]
Section 17D.   Mayoral Approval of City Council Actions.
   Every order, ordinance, resolution and vote of the city council (except
special municipal election orders adopted under section thirteen, votes
relating to the internal affairs of said council, resolutions not affecting
legal rights, votes electing officials, and votes confirming appointments by
the mayor) shall be presented to the mayor for his approval. If he approves it,
he shall sign it; and thereupon it shall be in force. If he disapproves it, he
shall, by filing it with the city clerk with his objections thereto in writing,
return it to the city council which shall enter the objections at-large on its
records. Every order, ordinance, resolution and vote authorizing a loan or
appropriating money or accepting a statute involving the expenditure of money,
which is so returned to the city council, shall be void, and no further action
shall be taken thereon; but the city council shall proceed forthwith to
reconsider every other order, ordinance, resolution and vote so returned, and
if, after such reconsideration, two thirds of all the city councillors vote to
pass it notwithstanding the disapproval of the mayor, it shall then be in
force; but no such vote shall be taken before the seventh day after the city
council has entered the objections at-large on its records. Every order,
ordinance, resolution or vote required by this section to be presented to the
mayor which, within fifteen days after such presentation, is neither signed by
him nor filed with his written objections as hereinbefore provided, shall be in
force on and after the sixteenth day following such presentation.
   Every order, ordinance, resolution or vote required by this section to be
presented to the mayor shall be approved as a whole or disapproved as a whole;
except that, if the same authorizes a loan or appropriates money, the mayor may
approve some of the items in whole or in part and disapprove other of the items
in whole or in part; and such items or parts of items as he approves shall,
upon his signing the same, be in force and such items or parts of items as he
disapproves by filing with the city clerk his written objections thereto shall
be void, and such items or parts of items as he neither signs nor so
disapproves within fifteen days after the order, ordinance, resolution or vote
shall have been presented to him shall be in force on and after the sixteenth
day following such presentation.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17D]
Section 17E.   Mayoral Recommendations via Ordinances and Loan Orders.
   The mayor from time to time may make to the city council in the form of an
ordinance or loan order filed with the city clerk such recommendations as he
may deem to be for the welfare of the city. The city council shall consider
each ordinance or loan order so presented and shall either adopt or reject the
same within sixty days after the date when it is filed as aforesaid. If such
ordinance or loan order is not rejected within said sixty days, it shall be in
force as if adopted by the city council unless previously withdrawn by the
mayor. Nothing herein shall prevent the mayor from again presenting an
ordinance or loan order which has been rejected or withdrawn. The city council
may originate an ordinance or loan order and may reduce or reject any item in
any loan and, subject to the approval of the mayor, may amend an ordinance. All
sales of land other than school lands, all appropriations for the purchase of
land, and all loans voted by the city council shall require a vote of two
thirds of all the city councillors and shall be passed only after two separate
readings and by two separate votes, the second of said readings and votes to be
had not less than fourteen days after the first, except that in the case of
loan orders for temporary loans in anticipation of taxes the second of said
readings and votes may be had not less than twenty-four hours after the first.
No amendment increasing the amount to be paid for the purchase of land, or the
amount of loans, or altering the disposition of purchase money or of the
proceeds of loans shall be made at the time of the second reading and vote. If
a petition signed by three city councillors requesting that action be taken
forthwith upon a loan order presented by the mayor is filed in the office of
the city clerk not earlier than fourteen days after the presentation of such
loan order, action shall be taken by the yeas and nays on the question of the
adoption of such loan order at the next meeting of the council, or, if one vote
has already been taken thereon, at the next meeting after the expiration of the
required interval after such vote; provided, that such action thereon has not
sooner been taken or such loan order has not been withdrawn by the mayor.
[Acts of 1951, c.376, s.1.17E, amended by Acts of 1966, c. 642, s. 14]
Section 17F.   Requests for Specific Information.
   The city council at any time may request from the mayor specific information
on any municipal matter within its jurisdiction, and may request his presence
to answer written questions relating thereto at a meeting to be held not
earlier than one week from the date of the receipt of said questions, in which
case the mayor shall personally, or through a head of a department or a member
of a board, attend such meeting and publicly answer all such questions. The
person so attending shall not be obliged to answer questions relating to any
other matter. Specific information, as used in this section, shall include any
and all records, other than those exempt from disclosure under clause Twenty-
six of section seven of chapter four of the General Laws, within the control of
any executive department or agency of the city, including the Boston water and
sewer commission and the Boston Redevelopment Authority, whether the
information is in printed or electronic form. For the purposes of enforcing
this section, the city council shall have standing to request a justice of the
superior court department of the trial court of the commonwealth to issue
appropriate orders to compel compliance with this section. The mayor at any
time may attend and address the city council in person or through the head of a
department, or a member of a board, upon such subject as he may desire.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17F; Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 16]
Section 17G.   Restrictions on the Making of Contracts.
   Except as otherwise provided in chapter four hundred and eighty-six of the
acts of nineteen hundred and nine, neither the city council nor any member,
committee, officer or employee thereof shall directly or indirectly on behalf
of the city or of the county of Suffolk take part in the employment of labor,
the making of contracts, or the purchase of materials, supplies or real estate;
nor in the construction, alteration, or repair of any public works, buildings,
or other property; nor in the care, custody, or management of the same; nor in
the conduct of the executive or administrative business of the city or county;
nor in the appointment or removal of any city or county employee; nor in the
expenditure of public money except such as may be necessary for the contingent
and incidental expenses of the city council. Any person violating any provision
of this section shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than one year,
or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or both.
[Acts of 1951, c.376, s.1.17G]
   No contract for lighting the public streets, parks, or alleys, or for the
collection, removal, or disposal of refuse, extending over a period of more
than one year from the date thereof, shall be valid without the approval of the
mayor and the city council after a public hearing held by the city council, of
which at least seven days’ notice shall have been given in the City Record.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 6]
   The provisions of this section shall not affect the powers or duties of the
city council as the successor of the present board of aldermen relative to
state or military aid and soldiers’ relief.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 8]
   It shall be unlawful for the mayor or for a member of the city council or
for any officer or employee of the city or of the county of Suffolk or for a
member of the finance commission directly or indirectly to make a contract with
the city or with the county of Suffolk, or to receive any commission, discount,
bonus, gift, contribution or reward from or any share in the profits of any
person or corporation making or performing such contract, unless such mayor,
member of the city council, officer, or employee or member of the finance
commission immediately upon learning of the existence of such contract or that
such contract is proposed, shall notify in writing the mayor, city council, and
finance commission of such contract and of the nature of his interest in such
contract and shall abstain from doing any official act on behalf of the city in
reference thereto. In case of such interest on the part of an officer whose
duty it is to make such contract on behalf of the city, the contract may be
made by any other officer of the city duly authorized thereto by the mayor, or
if the mayor has such interest by the city clerk: provided, however, that when
a contractor with the city or county is a corporation or voluntary association,
the ownership of less than five per cent of the stock or shares actually issued
shall not be considered as being an interest in the contract within the meaning
of this act, and such ownership shall not affect the validity of the contract,
unless the owner of such stock or shares is also an officer or agent of the
corporation or association, or solicits or takes part in the making of the
contract.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 8]
   A violation of any provision of this section shall render the contract in
respect to which such violation occurs voidable at the option of the city or
county. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished
by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 8]
Section 17H.   Restrictions on City Employment.
   No city councillor nor any person elected city councillor shall, during the
term for which he is elected or chosen, be appointed to, or hold, any office or
position which is under the city government or the salary of which is payable
out of the city treasury except the office of city councillor and any office
held ex officio by virtue of being a member, or president, of the city council;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent a city
councillor or any person elected city councillor from, during the term for
which he is elected or chosen, being appointed by the governor, with or without
the advice and consent of the council, to, and holding, any such office or
position if before entering upon the duties of such office or position he
resigns as city councillor or city councillor elect.
[Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 1.17H]
Section 17I.   Power to Summons and Subpoena.
   Witnesses may be summoned to attend and testify and to produce books and
papers at a hearing before a city council, ... a licensing board or licensing
authorities, as defined in section one of chapter one hundred and thirty-eight
[of the General Laws], ... the police commissioner or election commissioners of
Boston, ... as to matters within their authority; and such witnesses shall be
summoned in the same manner, be paid the same fees and be subject to the same
penalties for default, as witnesses in civil cases before the courts. The
presiding officer of such council ... or a member of any such committee, board
or commission, or any such commissioner, may administer oaths to witnesses who
appear before such council, branch thereof, committee, board, commission or
commissioner, respectively.
[General Laws c. 233, s. 8]
CITY DISTRICTS.
Section 18.   District Boundaries.
   [T]he respective district lines shall be the same for the city council and
the school committee. Each such district shall be compact and shall contain, as
nearly as may be, an equal number of inhabitants as determined by the most
recent state decennial census, shall be composed of contiguous existing
precincts, and shall be drawn with a view toward preserving the integrity of
existing neighborhoods.
[Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 3]
[The ordinance containing the definition and boundaries of the districts is
found at CBC 2-9.2.]
   Said districts shall continue in force until redrawn by the city council as
provided herein. The council shall redraw the districts for the purpose of city
council and school committee representation as specified in this section on or
before (a) ninety days from the date that the nineteen hundred and eighty-five
state census, including census figures for the city of Boston, is properly
certified by the state secretary; and (b) on or before August first, nineteen
hundred and ninety-six and on or before said August first every subsequent
tenth year.
[Acts of 1986, c. 343, s. 1]
Section 19.   District Requirements.
   In the year nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and each subsequent year, the
city of Boston shall not be required to make a new division of its territory
into wards as required by section one of chapter fifty-four of the General
Laws.
[Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 3]
Section 20.   Habitation Requirements for Representation.
   Every city councillor ... who is elected to represent an individual district
shall have been an inhabitant of a place within the district for which he is
chosen for at least one year immediately preceding his election, and he shall
cease to represent such district when he shall cease to be an inhabitant
thereof.
[Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 6]
PROCEDURES RELATING TO ELECTIONS.
Section 21.   Biennial Municipal Election.
   Beginning in the year nineteen hundred and twenty- five, the municipal
election in said city shall take place biennially in every odd numbered year on
the Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 32, amended by Acts of 1914, c. 730, s. 1, amended by
Acts of 1921, c. 288, s. 1, and further amended by Acts of 1924, c.479, s. 4]
[See Appendix K]
Section 22.   Provisions for Different Types of Elections.
   Every municipal officer required by sections twelve, thirteen, [and]
fourteen … to be elected at-large shall be elected at a biennial municipal
election, or, in the case of a mayor for an unexpired term, at a special
municipal election, after, in either case, nomination at a preliminary
municipal election, except as otherwise provided in section [twenty- six C]. In
sections [twenty-two] to [thirty-three], inclusive, the term “regular election”
shall be construed to refer to the biennial municipal election or the special
municipal election, as the case may be, and the term “preliminary election” to
the preliminary municipal election held for the purpose of nominating
candidates for election at such regular election. Every preliminary election
shall, unless dispensed with under said section [twenty-six C], be held on the
sixth Tuesday preceding the regular election.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 53, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.53]
Section 23. Petition for Nomination.
   Any person who is a registered voter of the city duly qualified to vote for
a candidate for an elective municipal officer therein may be a candidate for
nomination to such office, provided, that a petition for the nomination of such
person is obtained, signed and filed as provided in sections [twenty-four],
[twenty-four A], and [twenty-five], and signatures of petitioners thereon, to
the number required by section [twenty-five], certified as provided in section
[twenty-six] by the board of election commissioners, in sections [twenty-four]
to [thirty-three], inclusive, called the election commission.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 54, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.54]
Section 24.   Statement of Candidacy.
   A nomination petition shall be issued only to a person subscribing after the
twenty-third Tuesday, and before the nineteenth Tuesday at 5:00 P.M., preceding
the preliminary election, in a book kept for the purpose by the election
commission, a statement of candidacy in substantially the following form:
[See Appendix B]
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 55, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.55, amended
by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 3, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c.476, ss.
3, 4]
Section 24A. Format of Nomination Petition.
   A nomination petition shall be issued by the election commission not later
than twelve o’clock noon on the second day (Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays excluded) after the subscription of a statement of candidacy, except
that no such petition shall be issued before the twenty-first Tuesday preceding
the preliminary election nor after 5:00 P.M. on the nineteenth. A nomination
petition shall not relate to more than one candidate nor to more than one
office. A nomination petition may state the elective public offices which the
candidate holds or has held under the government of the commonwealth, the
county of Suffolk or the city of Boston or in congress as a representative or
senator from the commonwealth; provided that such statement shall not exceed
eight words and shall with respect to each such office, consist solely of the
title, as hereinafter given, of such office, preceded, if the candidate is the
then incumbent thereof, by the word “Present”, otherwise, but the word
“Former”.
   For the purposes of such statement, the titles of the elective public
offices which may be stated shall be deemed to be as follows: city councillor-
at-large, district city councillor, ... mayor, district attorney, sheriff,
register of deeds, register of probate, county clerk of superior (criminal)
court, county clerk of superior (civil) court, county clerk of supreme judicial
court, state representative, state senator, governor’s councillor, attorney
general, state auditor, state treasurer, state secretary, lieutenant governor,
governor, congressman, and United States senator.
   If the candidate is a veteran as defined in section twenty-one of chapter
thirty-one of the General Laws, his nomination petition may contain the word
“Veteran”, which, in the case of a candidate holding or having held elective
public office as aforesaid, shall, for the purposes of this section and
sections [twenty-four], [twenty-seven] and [thirty-one], be counted as part of
the statement concerning the elective public offices held by him, and, in the
case of a candidate who does not hold and has never held elective public office
as aforesaid, shall, for the purposes of said sections, be deemed to be a
statement concerning the elective public offices held by him.
   A nomination petition may consist of one or more sheets; but each sheet
shall be in substantially the following form: [See Appendix C]. Every
nomination petition sheet shall, before issuance, be prepared by the election
commission by printing or inserting thereon the matter required by the first
two paragraphs of the foregoing form. Not more than three hundred nomination
petition sheets shall be issued to any candidate for nomination to the office
of mayor under Plan A and not more than one hundred and fifty such sheets shall
be issued to any candidate for nomination to the office of city councillor-at-
large ... . Not more than twenty nomination sheets shall be issued to any
candidate for nomination to the office of district city councillor.....No
nomination petition sheet shall be received or be valid unless prepared and
issued by the election commission; nor shall any such sheet be received to be
valid unless the written acceptance of the candidate thereby nominated is
endorsed thereon, anything in section three A of chapter fifty of the General
Laws to the contrary notwithstanding.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 55A, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.55A,
amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 4, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c.
476, ss. 5, 6]
Section 25.   Signature Requirements for Nomination Papers.
   The city council shall adopt an ordinance providing for signature
requirements for nomination papers for candidates for city council or school
committee.
[Acts of 1982, c. 605, s. 3, amended by Acts of 2008, c. 492, s. 2]
[The ordinance containing the signature requirements is found at CBC 2-9.13.]
   The nomination petition shall be signed, in the case of a candidate for
mayor, by at least three thousand registered voters of the city qualified to
vote for such candidate; in the case of a candidate for city councillor-at-
large ... by at least 1,500 registered votes; and in the case of a candidate
for district city councillor, ... by at least the number of voters residing in
the district as shall be set in ordinance by the city council and mayor.
[Amended by Acts of 2008, c. 492, s. 2]
   Every voter signing a nomination petition shall sign in person, with his
name as registered, and shall state his residence on January first preceding,
or his residence when registered if subsequent thereto, and the place where he
is then living, with the street and number, if any; but any voter who is
prevented by physical disability from writing may authorize some person to
write his name and residence in his presence. No voter may sign as a petitioner
more than one nomination petition for the office of mayor or district city
councillor ... nor more than four nomination petitions of the office of city
councillor-at-large If the name of any voter appears as petitioner on more
nomination petitions for an office than prescribed in this section, his name
shall, in determining the number of petitioners, be counted, in the case of the
office of mayor, district city councillor only on the nomination petition sheet
bearing his name first filed with the election commission, and in the case of
the office of city councillor-at-large ... only on the four nomination petition
sheets bearing his name first filed with the commission. If the name of any
voter appears as petitioner on the same nomination petition more than once, it
shall be deemed to appear but once. The signature of any petitioner which is
not certified by the circulator of the sheet as provided in the form set forth
in section fifty-five A shall not be counted in determining the number of
petitioners.
   The separate sheets of a nomination petition may be filed all at one time or
in lots of one or more from time to time, but shall all be filed with the
election commission at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the
eighteenth Tuesday preceding the preliminary election. Every nomination
petition sheet shall be filed by a responsible person, who shall sign such
sheet and, if he is other than the candidate, add to his signature his place of
residence, giving street and number, if any; and the election commission shall
require satisfactory identification of such person.
The names of candidates appearing on nomination petitions shall, when filed, be
a matter of public record but no nomination petition shall be open to public
inspection until the signatures on all nomination petitions for the same office
have been certified.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 56, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.56, amended
by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 5, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, s.
7]
Editor’s note:
   CBC 2-9.1 Signature Requirements for Candidates for District Elective
Positions in Municipal Elections. Nomination petitions as provided for in St.
1948, c. 452, s. 55A, as inserted by St. 1951, c. 376, s. 2, shall be signed in
the case of candidates for City Councillor elected from a District, and School
Committee member elected from a District, by at least two hundred (200)
registered voters of the City, qualified by their residence and otherwise, to
vote for such candidate; provided however, if in any district, two hundred
(200) exceeds two (2%) percent of the vote cast for Mayor in the preceding
mayoral election, then the petition shall be required to contain signatures in
a number equal to two (2%) percent of said vote cast. (Ord. 1983 c. 5)
Section 26.   Certification of Signatures.
   Upon the filing of each nomination petition sheet the election commission
shall check each name to be certified by it on such sheet and shall certify
thereon the number of signatures so checked which are the names of registered
voters of the city qualified to sign the same; provided, however, that said
commission shall not certify, in connection with a single nomination petition,
a greater number of names than required by section [twenty-five] with twenty
per cent of such number added thereto. Names not certified in the first
instance shall not thereafter be certified on the same nomination petition. All
nomination petitions not containing names certified pursuant to this section,
to the number required by said section [twenty-five], shall be invalid. The
election commission shall complete the certification required by this section
at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the thirteenth Tuesday preceding
the preliminary election.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 57, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.57, amended
by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 6, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, s.
8]
Section 26A.   Objections to the Validity of a Nomination Petition. 
   A nomination petition which has been filed and is in apparent conformity
with law shall be valid unless written objection thereto is made by a
registered voter of the city. Such objection shall be filed with the election
commission at or before five o’clock in the afternoon of the twelfth Tuesday
preceding the preliminary election. Objections filed with the election
commission shall forthwith be transmitted by it to the Boston ballot law
commission. Certification pursuant to [section twenty-six] shall not preclude a
voter from filing objections to the validity of a nomination petition.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 57A, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.57A, and
further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, s. 9]
Section 26B.   Withdrawing or Substituting a Name for Nomination.
   Any candidate may withdraw his name from nomination by a request signed and
duly acknowledged by him; provided, however, that all withdrawals shall be
filed with the election commission at or before five o’clock in the afternoon
on the twelfth Tuesday preceding the preliminary election. If a candidate so
withdraws his name from nomination before five o’clock in the afternoon of the
twelfth Tuesday preceding the preliminary election, or is found to be
ineligible or dies, the vacancy may be filled by a committee of not less than
five persons or a majority thereof, if such committee be named and so
authorized in the nomination petition; provided, however, that all certificates
of substitution, except any certificate of substitution for a deceased
candidate for mayor under Plan A, shall be filed with the election commission
at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the day following the twelfth
Tuesday.
   The certificate of substitution for a deceased candidate for mayor under
Plan A shall be filed with the election commission (a) at or before five
o’clock in the afternoon on the first Tuesday preceding the preliminary
election if he dies on or before the second Friday preceding the preliminary
election (b) at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the first Friday
following the preliminary election if he dies after the second Friday preceding
such election and before the closing of the polls at such election (c) at or
before five o’clock in the afternoon on the Tuesday preceding the regular
election if he dies after the closing of the polls at the preliminary election
and on or before the second Friday preceding the regular election, and (d) at
or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the first Friday following the
regular election if he dies after the second Friday preceding such election and
before the closing of the polls at such election; provided, however, that no
certificate of substitution for such a deceased candidate shall be filed after
the closing of the polls at the preliminary election unless such a candidate,
if living, would be deemed under either section [twenty-six C] or [thirty] to
have been nominated for the office of mayor under Plan A.
   If a certificate of substitution for a deceased candidate for mayor under
Plan A is filed at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the first Tuesday
preceding the preliminary election, the ballots for use at such election shall
be printed with the name, residence and ward of the substitute in the place of
the name, residence and ward of the deceased; and the voting machine ballot
labels for use at such election, if not previously printed, shall be printed
with the name, residence and ward of the substitute in the place of the name,
residence and ward of the deceased; and the voting machine ballot labels for
use at such election, if not previously printed, shall be printed with the
name, residence and ward of the substitute in the place of the name, residence
and ward of the deceased, and, if previously printed shall have a slip
containing the name, residence and ward of the substitute pasted over the name,
residence and ward of the deceased. If such a certificate is filed after five
o’clock in the afternoon on the first Tuesday preceding the preliminary
election, all ballots and voting machine ballot labels for use as such election
shall bear the name, residence and ward of the deceased but shall be deemed as
a matter of law to bear the name, residence and ward of the substitute in the
place of the name, residence and ward of the deceased, and a vote for the
deceased at such election shall be counted as a vote for the substitute. If
such a certificate is filed at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the
first Tuesday preceding the regular election, the ballots for use at such
election other than absent voting ballots shall be printed with the name,
residence and ward of the substitute in the place of the name, residence and
ward of the deceased; and the absent voting ballots for use at such election,
if not previously printed, shall be printed with the name, residence and ward
of the substitute in the place of the name, residence and ward of the deceased
and, if previously printed, shall be deemed as a matter of law to bear the
name, residence and ward of the substitute in the place of the name, residence
and ward of the deceased so that a vote thereon for the deceased shall be
counted as a vote for the substitute; and the voting machine ballot labels for
use at such election, if not previously printed, shall be printed with the
name, residence and ward of the substitute in the place of the name, residence
and ward of the deceased, and, if previously printed, shall have a slip
containing the name, residence and ward of the substitute pasted over the name,
residence and ward of the deceased. If a candidate for mayor under Plan A in
whose nomination petition a committee of not less than five persons or a
majority thereof is authorized to fill a vacancy dies after the second Friday
preceding the regular election and a certificate of substitution is not filed
at or before five o’clock in the afternoon on the first Tuesday preceding such
election, so far, but only so far, as it is for the purpose of electing a
person for the office of mayor shall be postponed for four weeks and no vote
cast for any candidate for mayor at the originally scheduled election shall be
counted.
   Every certificate of substitution shall state: (1) the name of the
substitute, (2) his residence, with street and number, if any, and ward, (3)
the office for which he is to be a candidate, (4) the name of the original
candidate, (5) the fact of his death, withdrawal or ineligibility, and (6) the
proceedings had for making the substitution. The chairman and secretary of the
committee shall sign and make oath to the truth of the certificate; and it
shall be accompanied by the written acceptance of the candidate substituted. A
certificate of substitution shall be open to objection in the same manner, so
far as practicable, as a nomination petition.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 57B, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.57B, and
further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, ss. 10,11,12]
Section 26C.   Public Posting of Candidates for Nomination.
   On the first day, other than a legal holiday or Saturday or Sunday,
following the expiration of the time for filing withdrawals and the final
disposition of any objections filed, the election commission shall post in a
conspicuous place in city hall the names, residences and districts of the
candidates for nomination for mayor and for city councillor-at- large ... who
have duly qualified as such candidates, as they are to appear on the official
ballots to be used in the preliminary election or special preliminary election
for filling an unexpired term of mayor, except to the order of the names. The
election commission shall also post in city hall the names, addresses and
districts of all candidates for nomination as district city councillors, ...
the lists grouped by numerical identifying district and showing names of
candidates duly qualified to appear on the official ballots to be used at the
preliminary election to fill a district vacancy. In at least one place in a
public building in each of the districts the election commission shall cause to
be posted the names and addresses of all candidates for district office in the
respective district office in the respective district and the names, addresses
and districts of at-large candidates. If there are so posted the names of not
more than two candidates for the office of mayor or district city councillor,
... the candidates whose names are so posted shall be deemed to have been
nominated for said office and the preliminary election for the purpose of
nominating candidates thereof shall be dispensed with; if there are posted the
names of not more than eight candidates for the office of city councillor-at-
large, ... the candidates whose names are so posted shall be deemed to have
been nominated for said office, and the preliminary election to nominate
candidates therefor shall be dispensed with.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 57C, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.57C, and
further amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 7]
Section 27. Printing of Election Ballots.
   On the day of the posting provided for by section [twenty-six C], or as soon
thereafter as conveniently may be, the election commission shall draw by lot
the position of the candidates on the ballot. Each candidate shall have an
opportunity to be present at such drawing in person or by one representative.
As soon as conveniently may be after such drawing, the election commission
shall cause the ballots to be printed. Said ballots shall, in addition to the
directions and numbers provided for by section [twenty-eight], contain, in the
order drawn by the election commission, the names posted as aforesaid (except
those of candidates deemed under section [twenty-six C] to have been
nominated), and no others, with a designation of residence and district and the
title and term of the office for which the person named is a candidate, and the
statement, if any, contained in his nomination petition concerning the elective
public officers held by him. Said ballots shall be official and no others shall
be used at the preliminary election. Said ballots shall be headed as follows:
[See Appendix D].
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 58, amended by Acts of 1951, c.376, s. 2.58, and
further amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 8]
Section 28.   Drawing of Names for Position on Ballot.
   At every preliminary election, and every regular election under Plan A, each
voter shall be entitled to vote for not more than one candidate for the office
of mayor, district city councillor ... and not more than four candidates for
the office of city councillor-at-large.... On the ballots and voting machine
ballot labels for use at each of said elections, there shall, as a direction to
the voter, be printed in capital letters, near the title of each office to be
voted for, the words “VOTE FOR UP TO (here insert in words the number of
candidates specified in this section with respect to such office).” The
election commission, when drawing under section [twenty- seven] the position on
the ballot of the candidates for nomination at every preliminary election,
shall draw the positions of all candidates for mayor, if any are to be drawn,
before drawing the position of any candidate for city councillor....and shall
draw the positions of all candidates for city councillor, if any are to be
drawn....The election commission immediately prior to drawing positions for
mayor, if such office is to be contested, shall announce and deposit in
alphabetical order in the receptacle from which names are to be drawn cards
bearing the names and addresses of candidates for nomination or for election
for the office. Names then drawn shall determine the order of appearance on the
ballot. After the drawing for mayor has been completed, the election commission
shall announce and deposit in alphabetical order in the receptacle from which
names are to be drawn, cards bearing the names and addresses of all candidates
for election to the city council, whether for at-large or district seats. Cards
for candidates for city councillor-at-large shall have no other marking;
provided, however, that each card for a candidate for district city councillor
shall bear the number of the district in which the candidate is running. After
all cards have been deposited, the election commission shall proceed to draw
names, the order of drawing to determine the sequence each name will have on
its respective at-large or district ballot.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 59, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.59, amended
by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 9, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, s.
13]
Section 29.   Counting of Ballots.
   The election officers shall, immediately upon the closing of the polls at
preliminary elections, count the ballots and ascertain the number of votes cast
in the several voting places for each candidate, and forthwith make return
thereof upon the total vote sheets or, if voting machines are used, the general
or precinct record sheets, as the case may be, to the election commission which
shall forthwith canvass said returns and, subject to the provisions of the
first sentence of section one hundred and thirty-seven of chapter fifty-four of
the General Laws, determine and declare the result thereof, publish said result
in one or more newspapers in the city, and post the same in a conspicuous place
in the city hall.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 60, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.60]
Section 30.   Votes Needed for Nomination.
   The two persons receiving at a preliminary election under Plan A the highest
number of votes for nomination for the office of the mayor [or] district city
councillor ... shall be deemed to have been nominated for said office; and the
eight persons receiving at such election under Plan A the highest number of
votes for nomination for the office of city councillor-at-large ... shall be
deemed to have been nominated for such office. If a preliminary election under
Plan A or D results in a tie vote among candidates for nomination receiving the
lowest number of votes, which, but for said tie vote, would entitle a person
receiving the same to be deemed to have been nominated, all persons
participating in said tie vote shall be deemed to have been nominated, although
in consequence there be printed on the official ballot to be used at the
regular election names to a number exceeding twice the number to be elected.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 61, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.61, and
further amended by Acts of 1983, c.342, s. 10]
Section 31.   Printing of Names on Ballots.
   The name of every person deemed under section [twenty-six C] or section
[thirty] to have been nominated, together with his residence and district and
the title and term of the office for which he is a candidate, and the
statement, if any, contained in his nomination petition concerning the elective
public offices held by him, shall, in addition to the directions provided for
by section [twenty-eight], be printed on the official ballots to be used at the
regular election; and said persons shall be the sole candidates whose names may
be printed on such ballots. As soon as conveniently may be after the sixth
Tuesday preceding every regular election, the election commission shall draw by
lot the position of said names on said ballots; and said names shall be printed
on such ballots in the order so drawn. Each candidate shall have an opportunity
to be present at such drawing in person or by one representative.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 62, amended by Acts of 1951, s. 376, s. 2.62, and
further amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 11]
Section 32.   Ballots Must Be Free of References to Political Parties. 
   No ballot used at any preliminary or regular election shall have printed
thereon any party or political designation or mark, and there shall not be
appended to the name of any candidate any such party or political designation
or mark or anything showing how he was nominated or indicating his views or
opinions.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 63, amended by Acts of 1951, s. 376, s. 2.63]
Section 33.   Blank Spaces for Write-in Votes.
   On every ballot to be used at a preliminary or regular election, there shall
be left, at the end of the list of candidates for each office, blank spaces
equal to the number for which a voter may vote for such office, in which blank
spaces the voter may insert the name of any person not printed on the ballot
for whom he desires to vote for such office.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 64, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.64]
ORGANIZATION OF CITY DEPARTMENTS.
Section 34.   Organization of Departments and Agencies.
   The city council with the approval of the mayor may from time to time make
by-laws or ordinances for any or all of the following purposes:
      (a) to create a new department or agency;
      (b) to abolish, in whole or in part, any department or agency;
      (c) to reorganize, in whole or in part, any department or department head
or any agency or agency head;
      (d) to confer or impose on any department or agency any power or duty of
the city not appertaining at the time of the making of the by-law or ordinance
to any department or agency;
      (e) to transfer any or all of the powers, duties and appropriations of
any division of any department or agency to another division of the same
department or agency;
      (f) to transfer any or all of the powers, duties and appropriations of
any department or division thereof or of any agency or division thereof either
to another department or division thereof or to another agency or division
thereof; and
      (g) to increase, reduce, establish or abolish the salary of any
department or agency head. Every department or agency head created by, or
resulting from a reorganization effected by, a by-law or ordinance made under
this section shall, unless ex officio, be appointed by the mayor without
confirmation by the city council for a term expiring on the first Monday of the
January following the next biennial municipal election at which a mayor is
elected or, in the case of a person serving without compensation or of a person
serving on the board of appeal, the board of examiners, the board of examiners
of gasfitters or other like board, for such other term as the by-law or
ordinance may prescribe. Every person holding an office or position subject to
the civil service laws and rules shall, if the office or position is abolished
by a by-law or ordinance made under this section and the by-law or ordinance so
provides, be reappointed without civil service examination or registration to a
similar office or position with similar status in any new department or agency,
or division of either, thereby created or in any department or agency, or
division of either, not thereby abolished; and every such person shall upon
such reappointment, retain all rights to retirement with pension that shall
have accrued or would thereafter accrue to him; and his services shall be
deemed to have been continuous to the same extent as if such abolition had not
taken place. As used in this section, the term “agency” shall be construed to
mean any office in charge of a board or officer not subject to the direction of
a department head. Nothing in this section shall authorize any action in
conflict with the civil service laws or rules except as expressly provided
herein; nor shall any by-law or ordinance made under this section affect in any
way the school committee or any board or officer of the school committee or
school department, or the board of commissioners of school buildings or the
superintendent of construction, or the board of trustees of the teachers’
retirement fund or the board of trustees of the permanent school pension fund,
or the Boston retirement board, or the city clerk, or the board of election
commissioners, or the Boston traffic commission, or any board or officer
appointed by the governor.
[Acts of 1909, c.486, s.5, amended by Acts of 1936, c. 152, s. 1, and further
amended by Acts of 1953, c.473, s.1]
Section 35.   Appointment of Heads of Departments.
   All heads of departments and members of municipal boards, including the
board of street commissioners, as their present terms of office expire (but
excluding the school committee and those officials by law appointed by the
governor), shall be appointed by the mayor without confirmation by the city
council. They shall be recognized experts in such work as may devolve upon the
incumbents of said offices, or persons specially fitted by education, training
or experience to perform the same, and (except the election commissioners, who
shall remain subject to the provisions of existing laws) shall be appointed
without regard to party affiliation or to residence at the time of appointment
except as hereinafter provided. [Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 9]
Section 36.   Certification of Appointments of Heads of Departments.
   In making such appointments the mayor shall sign a certificate in the
following form: [See Appendix E]. The certificate shall be filed with the city
clerk, who shall thereupon forward a certified copy to the civil service
commission. The commission shall immediately make a careful inquiry into the
qualifications of the nominee under such rules as they may, with the consent of
the governor and council, establish, and, if they conclude that he is a
competent person with the requisite qualifications, they shall file with the
city clerk a certificate signed by at least a majority of the commission that
they have made a careful inquiry into the qualifications of the appointee, and
that in their opinion he is a recognized expert, or that he is qualified by
education, training or experience for said office, as the case may be, and that
they approve the appointment. Upon the filing of this certificate the
appointment shall become operative, subject however to all provisions of law or
ordinance in regard to acceptance of office, oath of office, and the filing of
bonds. If the commission does not within thirty days after the receipt of such
notice file said certificate with the city clerk the appointment shall be void.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 10]
Section 37.   Expenses of Civil Service Commission.
   The civil service commission is authorized to incur in carrying out the
foregoing provisions such reasonable expense as may be approved by the governor
and council; the same to be paid by the commonwealth, which upon demand shall
be reimbursed by the city of Boston.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 11]
Section 38.   Vacancy of Heads of Departments.
   A vacancy in any office to which the provisions of section [thirty-five] of
this act apply, shall be filled by the mayor under the provisions of said
section and pending a permanent appointment he shall designate some other head
of a department or member of a board to discharge the duties of the office
temporarily. [Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 12]
SECTION 39.   Terms of Office of Heads of Departments.
   Members of boards shall be appointed for the terms established by law or by
ordinance. Heads of departments shall be appointed for terms of four years
beginning with the first of May of the year in which they are appointed and
shall continue thereafter to hold office during the pleasure of the mayor.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 13; see also Acts of 1953, c. 473]
SECTION 40.   Removal from Office of Heads of Departments.
   The mayor may remove any head of a department or member of a board (other
than the election commissioners, who shall remain subject to the provisions of
existing laws) by filing a written statement with the city clerk setting forth
in detail the specific reasons for such removal, a copy of which shall be
delivered or mailed to the person thus removed, who may make a reply in
writing, which, if he desires, may be filed with the city clerk; but such reply
shall not affect the action taken unless the mayor so determines. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the school committee, the public
facilities commission, or any official by law appointed by the governor.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 14, amended by Acts of 1966, c. 642, s. 11]
SECTION 41.   Civil Service Laws not to Apply to Certain Appointments.
   The civil service laws shall not apply to the appointment of the mayor’s
secretaries, nor of the stenographers, clerks, telephone operators and
messengers connected with his office, and the mayor may remove such appointees
without a hearing and without making a statement of the cause for their
removal.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 15]
SECTION 42.   Expenditures Not to Exceed Appropriation.
   No official of said city, except in case of extreme emergency involving the
health or safety of the people or their property, shall expend intentionally in
any fiscal year any sum in excess of the appropriations duly made in accordance
with law, nor involve the city in any contract for the future payment of money
in excess of such appropriation, except as provided in section [17G] of this
act. Any official who violates the provisions of this section shall be
personally liable to the city for any amounts expended intentionally in excess
of an appropriation to the extent the city does not recover such amounts from
the person to whom paid. The trial court of the commonwealth or a single
justice of the supreme judicial court shall have jurisdiction to adjudicate
claims brought by the city hereunder and to order such equitable relief as the
court may find appropriate to prevent further violations of this section. Any
official who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be punished by
imprisonment for not more than one year, or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars, or both. [Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 16, amended by Acts of
1982, c. 190, s. 17]
SECTION 42A.   Contracting without an Appropriation.
   Anything in section [forty-nine] or section [forty-two] to the contrary
notwithstanding, city and county officers who are authorized to make
expenditures, and the school committee, may, during any fiscal year, at the
time of, or after, contracting for the performance or delivery during the
remainder of such year of any work, services or supplies of a constantly
recurrent nature, contract, without an appropriation, upon like or more
favorable terms and conditions, for the performance or delivery of such work,
services or supplies for the whole or any part of the first three months of the
next fiscal year; provided, that in no event shall the average monthly
liability incurred with respect to the next fiscal year exceed the average
monthly liability for such work, services or supplies during the last nine
months of the then current fiscal year.
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 16A, amended by Acts of 1951, c. 182]
THE FINANCE COMMISSION.
SECTION 43.   Appointment of a Finance Commission.
   Within sixty days after the passage of this act the governor with the advice
and consent of the [governor’s] council shall appoint a finance commission to
consist of five persons, inhabitants of and qualified voters in the city of
Boston, who shall have been such for at least three years prior to the date of
their appointment, one for the term of five years, one for four years, one for
three years, one for two years, and one for one year, and thereafter as the
terms of office expire in each year one member for a term of five years.
Vacancies in the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by the
governor with the advice and consent of the council. The members of said
commission may be removed by the governor with the advice and consent of the
council for such cause as he shall deem sufficient. The chairman shall be
designated by the governor. His annual salary ... shall be paid in monthly
installments by the city of Boston. The other members shall serve without pay.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 17; but see Acts of 1964, c. 740, s. 3]
Editor’s note:
   “Subject to section two of this act and except as required by the
constitution of the commonwealth, so much of each provision of the General Laws
and of any special law as requires the advice and consent of the council to any
appointment in the executive department, or to the fixing of any salary, or
other compensation for services rendered, in the executive department, or to
the removal of any person holding office in the executive department, including
without limitation, any person appointed prior to the effective date of this
act, is hereby repealed.” [Acts of 1964, c. 740, s. 3]
SECTION 44.    Duty to Investigate.
   It shall be the duty of the finance commission from time to time to
investigate any and all matters relating to appropriations, loans,
expenditures, accounts, and methods of administration affecting the city of
Boston or the county of Suffolk, or any department thereof, that may appear to
the commission to require investigation, and to report thereon from time to
time to the mayor, the city council, the governor, or the general court. The
commission shall make an annual report in January of each year to the general
court.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 18]
SECTION 45.   Investigation of Pay Rolls, Bills, etc.
   Whenever any pay roll, bill, or other claim against the city is presented to
the mayor, city auditor, or the city treasurer, he shall, if the same seems to
him to be of doubtful validity, excessive in amount, or otherwise contrary to
the city’s interest, refer it to the finance commission, which shall
immediately investigate the facts and report thereon; and pending said report
payment shall be withheld.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 19]
SECTION 46.   Employment of Experts.
   The said commission is authorized to employ such experts, counsel, and other
assistants, and to incur such other expenses as it may deem necessary, and the
same shall be paid by said city upon requisition by the commission, not
exceeding in the aggregate in any year the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars,
or such additional sums as may be appropriated for the purpose by the city
council, and approved by the mayor. A sum sufficient to cover the salary of the
chairman of the commission and the further sum of at least twenty-five thousand
dollars to meet the expenses as aforesaid shall be appropriated each year by
said city. The commission shall have the same right to incur expenses in
anticipation of its appropriation as if it were a regular department of said
city.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 20]
SECTION 47.   Powers of the Finance Commission.
   For the purpose of enabling the said commission to perform the duties and
carry out the objects herein contemplated, and to enable the mayor, the city
council, the governor or the general court to receive the reports and findings
of said commission as a basis for such laws, ordinances, or administrative
orders as may be deemed met, the commission shall have all the powers and
duties enumerated in chapter five hundred and sixty-two of the acts of the year
nineteen hundred and eight and therein conferred upon the commission designated
in said act; but counsel for any witness at any public hearing may ask him any
pertinent question and may offer pertinent evidence through other witnesses
subject to cross-examination by the commission and its counsel.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 21]
Editor’s note:
   St. 1908, c. 562, s. 1: “... to examine into all matters pertaining to the
finances of the said city, including appropriations, debt, loans, taxation,
expenditures, bookkeeping, administration and other matters ... is hereby given
authority to prosecute the said investigation, to inquire into the management
of the business of said city, and to inform itself as to the manner and methods
in which the same is or has been conducted.” St. 1908, c. 562, s. 2: “... the
commission shall have the power to require the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of all books, papers, contracts and documents
relating to any matter within the scope of the said investigations, or which
may be material in the performance of [its] duties ... the chairman may
administer oaths.” St. 1908, c. 562, s. 3: “... [apply to] a justice of the
supreme judicial court or of the superior court [to] issue an order requiring
such person to appear. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be
punished by such court as a contempt thereof.” St. 1908, c. 562, s. 4: for
refusal, the commission may impose a fine not exceeding fifty dollars or by
imprisonment for not more than thirty days or both.
PUBLIC SPENDING.
SECTION 48.   Creation and Approval of the Municipal Budget.
      The mayor and city council of the City of Boston shall hold budgetary
powers together, with the power to modify in whole or in part an appropriation
order or an item within an appropriation order, amend the budget for Boston
Public Schools consistent with the Acts of 1936, c. 224, s.2, amended by Acts
of 1986, c. 701, s. 5, and further amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613, s. 2
[section 75] of this charter, clarify budgetary procedures and take such other
actions as are necessary to amend, approve or disapprove the annual budget for
the City, excepting the powers to originate an appropriation order, which shall
be reserved for the mayor. To further public engagement and democratic
involvement in city spending, the City of Boston shall create by City ordinance
an independent Office of Participatory Budgeting with an external oversight
board, to create and oversee an equitable and binding decision-making process
open to all Boston residents by Fiscal Year 2024, consistent with G.L. c. 44, §
53. The mayor, not later than the second Wednesday in April of each year, shall
submit to the city council the annual budget of the current expenses of the
city and county for the forthcoming fiscal year, and the mayor may submit
thereafter such supplementary appropriation orders as they may deem necessary.
Not later than the second Wednesday in June, the city council shall take
definite action on the annual budget, by adopting, amending or rejecting it,
provided that the amended version shall not be for a higher total budget than
originally proposed. In the event of their failure to act on a budget submitted
by the mayor, the items and the appropriation orders in the budget as
recommended by the mayor shall be in effect as if formally adopted by the city
council and approved by the mayor. The mayor shall have seven days from the
time of a budgetary vote of the council to approve or return said budget to the
council, and in the event of the failure of the mayor to act on a budget
approved by the council, the budget shall be in effect as approved by the
council. The mayor may modify a budget approved by the council by returning it
to said council with amendments to any line item provided that a vote of two-
thirds of the council shall be sufficient to override any budgetary amendments,
in whole or in part, or an overall budgetary veto by the mayor. It shall be the
duty of the city and the county officials when requested by the mayor, to
submit to the mayor forthwith in such detail as the mayor may require estimates
for the next fiscal year of the expenditures of the department or office under
their charge, which estimates shall be transmitted to the city council;
provided, however, that the mayor shall neither submit, nor thereafter reduce,
the appropriations for the city council at or to a level below that which
existed for the previous fiscal year, nor shall the city council reduce the
appropriations for the mayor’s office below that which existed for the previous
fiscal year.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 3, amended by Acts of 1974, c. 276, s. 53, amended by
Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 15, and further amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 2,
and as amended by binding ballot question 1 in November 2021]
SECTION 49.   Special Appropriations.
   In the period after the expiration of any fiscal year, and before the
regular appropriations have been made by the city council and the school
committee, city and county officers who are authorized to make expenditures,
and the school committee, may incur liabilities in carrying on the work of the
several departments and offices entrusted to them, and payments therefor shall
be made from the treasury from any available funds therein and charged against
the next annual appropriation, or special appropriation, if any is made;
provided, that the liabilities incurred during such interval for regular
employees do not exceed in any one month the average monthly expenditure of the
last three months of the preceding fiscal year, and that the total liabilities
incurred during said interval do not exceed in any one month the sums spent for
similar purposes during any one month of the preceding fiscal year; and
provided, further, that said officers who are authorized to make expenditures
may expend in any one month for any new officer or board lawfully created an
amount not exceeding one twelfth of the estimated cost for the current fiscal
year; and provided, further, that until a regular or special appropriation has
been made for snow removal, expenditures may be made for that purpose to an
amount not exceeding the average of the annual expenditures for snow removal in
the five preceding fiscal years. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations upon
the authority of city officers to incur liabilities during said interval, such
officers may incur liabilities to such extent as may be necessary for the
purpose of compensating first assistant assessors for their regular duties.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 3A, amended by Acts of 1941, c. 604, s. 1, and
further amended by Acts of 1947, c.120]
SECTION 50.   Transfers of Appropriations.
   After an appropriation of money has been made by the city for any specific
purpose, or for the needs and expenditures of any city department or county
office, no transfer of any part of the money thus appropriated, between such
department or office and another department or office, shall be made, except in
accordance with and after the written recommendation of the mayor to the city
council, approved by a yea or nay vote of two-thirds of all the members of the
city council, provided that the city auditor, with the approval in each
instance of the mayor, may make transfers, other than for personal service,
from any item to any other item within the appropriations for a department,
division of a department or county office. After the close of the fiscal year,
the city auditor may, with the approval of the mayor in each instance, apply
any income, taxes and funds not disposed of and make transfers from any
appropriation to any other appropriation for the purpose only of closing the
accounts of such fiscal year, provided further that the city auditor within
seventy days after the close of the fiscal year, shall transmit to city council
and the city clerk a report listing what income, taxes or funds were applied
and what transfers were made and the reasons therefor.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 3, amended by Acts of 1982, c.190, s.23, and further
amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 3]
SECTION 51.   Grants and Gifts; Acceptance and Expenditure.
   An officer or department of any city or town, or of any regional school or
other district, may accept grants or gifts of funds from the federal government
and from a charitable foundation, a private corporation, or an individual, or
from the commonwealth, a county or municipality or an agency thereof, and in
the case of any grant or gift given for educational purposes may expend said
funds for the purposes of such grant or gift with the approval of the school
committee, and in the case of any other grant or gift may expend such funds for
the purposes of such grant or gift with the approval of the mayor and city
council. Notwithstanding the provisions of M.G.L. c. 44, s. 53, any amounts so
received shall be deposited with the treasurer and held as a separate account
and may be expended as aforesaid by such officer or department receiving the
grant or gift without further appropriation. If the express written terms or
conditions of the grant agreement so stipulate, interest on the grant funds may
remain with and become a part of the grant account and may be expended as part
of the grant by such officer or department receiving the grant or gift without
further appropriation. Any grant, subvention, or subsidy for educational
purposes received from the federal government may be expended by the school
committee of such city, town or district without including the purpose of such
expenditure in, or applying such amount to, the annual or any supplemental
budget or appropriation request of such committee; provided, however, that this
sentence shall not apply to amounts so received to which M.G.L. c. 71, s. 26C
and Acts of 1953, c. 621, as amended, and Acts of 1958, c. 664, as amended,
apply; and, provided further, that notwithstanding the foregoing provision,
this sentence shall apply to amounts so received as grants under the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965, (Public Law 89-10). After receipt of a
written commitment from the federal government approving a grant for
educational purposes and in anticipation of receipt of such funds from the
federal government, the treasurer, upon the request of the school committee,
shall pay from the General Fund of such municipality compensation for services
rendered and goods supplied to such federal grant programs, such payments to be
made no later than ten days after the rendition of such services or the
supplying of such goods; provided, however, that the provisions of such federal
grant would allow the treasurer to reimburse the General Fund for the amounts
so advanced.
[General Laws c. 44, s. 53A]
THE CITY CLERK AND THE CITY AUDITOR.
SECTION 52.   Term of Office for City Clerk.
   In the year nineteen hundred and eleven, and every third year thereafter, a
city clerk shall be elected by a majority of the members of the city council,
to hold office until the first Monday in February in the third year following
his election, and thereafter until his successor has been duly chosen and
qualified, unless sooner removed by due process of law. The city clerk shall
act as clerk of the city council established by this act.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 22]
SECTION 53.   Accounts Subject to Inspection by Auditor.
   All accounts rendered to or kept in the departments of the city of Boston or
county of Suffolk shall be subject to the inspection and revision of the city
auditor, and shall be rendered and kept in such form as he shall prescribe. The
auditor may require any person presenting for settlement an account or claim
against the city or county to make oath before him in such form as he may
prescribe as to the accuracy of such account or claim. The wilful making of a
false oath shall be perjury and punishable as such. The auditor may disallow
and refuse to pay, in whole or in part, any claim on the ground that it is
fraudulent or unlawful and in that case he shall file a written statement of
his reasons for the refusal.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 23]
SECTION 54.   Statement of Unexpended Balances to be Furnished.
   The auditor shall furnish monthly to each head of department a statement of
the unexpended balance of the appropriation for that department, and he shall
furnish to the mayor and city council a statement of the unexpended balances of
all the departments. He shall furnish quarterly to the city council an itemized
statement showing the amount of money expended by the mayor and the city
council for contingent expenses.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 25]
SECTION 55.   Appointment of Audit Committee.
   There shall be appointed by the mayor subject to confirmation by the city
council, an audit committee of five members, all residents of the city of
Boston, whose members shall serve for five years Members shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred, and shall
be deemed special municipal employees for the purposes of chapter two hundred
and sixty-eight A of the General Laws.
   The city shall retain the services of an independent, certified public
accounting firm which shall annually audit the accounts of the city. The audit
committee shall monitor the progress of such audit and shall meet with the
accounting firm at least quarterly. The said committee shall review the
recommendations of the firm and shall present to the mayor and city council
such recommendations as it may have.
[Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 14]
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
SECTION 56.   Establishment of Reserve Fund.
   To provide for extraordinary and unforeseen expenditures, the city of Boston
shall, prior to the date when the tax rate for a fiscal year is fixed, include
in the appropriations for such fiscal year as a segregated reserve fund a sum
not less than 2.5% of the preceding year’s appropriations for city and county
departments, excepting the school department; provided, however, that the
amount required to be appropriated for such reserve fund in any fiscal year may
be reduced by the amount, if any, remaining in the reserve fund established for
the preceding fiscal year after all transfers have been made therefrom as
hereinafter authorized and such remaining amount shall be retained in the
reserve fund provided for such fiscal year. The Mayor, with the approval of the
city council, may make direct drafts or transfers against such fund before the
close of the fiscal year, provided that no such drafts or transfers may be made
before June 1st in any fiscal year.
   Each transfer recommended by the Mayor to the city council shall be
accompanied by written documentation detailing the amount of such transfer and
an explanation of the reason for the transfer. If the reserve fund for a fiscal
year beginning on or after July 1, 1986 is exhausted through transfer and the
city incurs an appropriation or revenue deficit in such fiscal year, the
reserve fund appropriation requirement shall increase by 50% for the fiscal
year following such fiscal year.
   Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, in the city of
Boston, the segregated reserve fund established by this section shall be deemed
to satisfy the requirement of section fourteen of chapter sixty-four J of the
General Laws that a city accepting said chapter sixty-four J shall establish a
segregated reserve fund. The reserve fund established pursuant to this section
shall become effective for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1986.
[Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 17A, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 7 and
further amended by Acts of 2016, c.166, s.1]
SECTION 57.   Requirement of Allotment Schedule from Departments.
   On or before August first of each year, or within ten days after the
approval of the city council and the mayor of the annual appropriation order
for such fiscal year, whichever shall occur later, the city or county officials
in charge of departments or agencies, including the superintendent of schools
for the school department, shall submit to the city auditor, with a copy to the
city clerk, in such form as the city auditor may prescribe, an allotment
schedule of the appropriations of all personnel categories included in said
budget, indicating the amounts to be expended by the department or agency for
such purposes during each of the fiscal quarters of said fiscal year.
   The allotment specified by the school department for the first fiscal
quarter in each fiscal year may not exceed twenty per cent of the total
appropriations of all personnel categories for said fiscal year, and the
allotment specified for any one of the remaining three quarters may not exceed
in such quarter thirty percent of the total appropriation.
   The allotment specified for each of the departments and agencies, except for
the school department, for either the first or second fiscal quarter in each
fiscal year may not exceed thirty per cent of the total appropriations of all
personnel categories in said fiscal year, and the allotment specified for each
of the departments and agencies, except for the school department, for both the
third and fourth fiscal quarter in each fiscal year may not be less than
twenty-one per cent of the total appropriations of all personnel categories in
said fiscal year.
   Whenever the city auditor determines that any department or agency,
including the school department, will exhaust or has exhausted its quarterly
allotment and any amounts unexpended in previous quarters, he shall give notice
in writing to such effect to the department head, the mayor and the city clerk,
who shall transmit the same to city council.
   The mayor, within seven days after receiving such notice, shall determine
whether to waive or enforce such allotment. If the allotment for such quarter
is waived or not enforced by the mayor, as provided above, the department or
agency head shall reduce the subsequent quarter’s allotments appropriately and
the director of administrative services, within seven days, shall state in
writing to the city council and the city clerk what reductions in each
subsequent quarter’s allotment will be taken or what reallocations or transfers
will be made to support the spending level in each subsequent quarter’s
allotment. If the allotment for such quarter is enforced or not waived,
thereafter the department shall terminate all personnel expenses for the
remainder of the quarter. All actions taken pursuant to this section shall be
reported to the city council and the city clerk. All reports provided for in
this section shall be transmitted to the city council and the city clerk within
seven days.
   No personnel expenses earned or accrued, within any department, shall be
charged to or paid from such department’s or agency’s allotment of a subsequent
quarter without approval by the mayor, except for subsequently determined
retroactive compensation adjustments. Approval of a payroll for payment of
wages, or salaries or other personnel expenses which would result in an
expenditure in excess of the allotment shall be a violation by the department
or agency head, including the superintendent of schools and the school
committee of section sixteen of chapter four hundred and eighty-six of the acts
of nineteen hundred and nine. If the continuation of operations is not approved
in a quarter where a department has exhausted the quarterly allotment or
allotments as specified above, or, in any event, if a department has exceeded
its entire appropriation for a fiscal year, the city shall have no obligation
to pay any personnel cost or expense arising after such allotment or
appropriation has been exhausted. Notwithstanding the provisions of any general
or special law to the contrary, every collective-bargaining agreement entered
into by the city, the school department, or the county shall be subject to and
shall expressly incorporate the provisions of this section.
   To insure that the overall city and county spending program remains in
balance, the mayor may reallocate no more than three million dollars of
nonpersonnel appropriations other than school appropriations during a fiscal
year to other departmental purposes provided that in no department from which
appropriations have been reallocated in accordance with this section shall any
transfers be made under section three B of chapter four hundred and eighty-six
of the acts of nineteen hundred and nine from personal services to non-personal
services, except with the approval of a two-thirds vote of the city council, if
such transfer would require the layoff of departmental personnel, who have been
permanently appointed to a position in the department under the provisions of
chapter thirty-one of the General Laws. No reallocation may be made under this
section after April fifteenth in any fiscal year. A list of each reallocation
made by the mayor shall be transmitted to the city council and the city clerk
by the city auditor by April thirtieth in any fiscal year. In each case the
report shall state the accounts from which the transferred funds were taken and
the accounts to which the funds were reallocated, and the reasons therefor.
[Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 18, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, ss. 8, 9]
SECTION 58.   Hospitalization and Insurance Accounts.
   To further insure that the overall city and county spending program remains
in balance, the mayor and city council shall appropriate for the
hospitalization and insurance account an amount not less than the average of
the past three years actual expenditures from those accounts. The city auditor
shall certify, in writing to the board of assessors, that adequate funds are
provided in the operating budget for existing collective bargaining contracts.
This certification shall be received by the board no later than ten business
days before the proposed tax rate is submitted to the department of revenue for
approval.
[Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 18A, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 10]
PUBLIC FACILITIES COMMISSION AND SURPLUS PROPERTY.
SECTION 59.   Authority of the Public Facilities Commission to Acquire Land for
Municipal Purposes.
   Without obtaining the consent of any board or officer or further authority
than that contained in this act, the public facilities commission, in the name
of the city, may acquire by purchase, lease, gift, devise or otherwise for any
municipal purpose a fee simple absolute or any lesser interest in any land,
public or private, within the limits of the city, including air rights and
riparian rights, and may take by eminent domain under chapter seventy-nine or
chapter eighty A of the General Laws any such fee or interest except in parks
and playgrounds and except also, unless there be express consent, in lands
belonging to or covered by contract with the United States, the commonwealth,
the Boston Housing Authority, or the Boston Redevelopment Authority. Whenever
the price proposed to be paid for any land to be acquired for any municipal
purpose is more than twenty-five per cent higher than its average assessed
valuation during the previous three years, such land shall not be acquired by
purchase, but shall be taken by eminent domain. No land shall be taken until an
appropriation by loan or otherwise for the general purpose for which land is
needed shall have been made by the mayor and city council by a two- thirds vote
of all its members; nor shall a price be paid in excess of the appropriation,
unless a larger sum is awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing in
this section shall affect in any way the powers and duties of the real property
board under chapter four hundred and seventy-four of the acts of nineteen
hundred and forty-six as now or hereafter amended, or of the public improvement
commission as successor in function to the board of street commissioners under
chapter four hundred and thirty- seven of the acts of eighteen hundred and
ninety-three or chapter four hundred and twenty-six of the acts of eighteen
hundred and ninety-seven or chapter three hundred and ninety-three of the acts
of nineteen hundred and six, as severally now or hereafter amended, or acts in
addition thereto.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 31; Acts of 1966, c. 642, s. 12; see also Acts of
1983, c. 643, s. 11]
SECTION 60.   Authority of the Public Facilities Commission to Shift Municipal
Purposes of Land.
   Without obtaining the consent of any board or officer other than the mayor,
and without interdepartmental payment, the public facilities commission,
without further authority, may transfer any land now or hereafter belonging to
the city, except parks and playgrounds, but including school lands and land
acquired by foreclosure of tax title, from the municipal purpose, if any, to
which it is devoted at the time of such transfer to any other specific
municipal purpose, and may also transfer the care, custody, management and
control of any such land, except parks and playgrounds, but including school
land and land acquired by foreclosure of tax title, from such board or officer,
including itself, as at the time of such transfer may have the same to such
other board or officer, including itself, as it may determine.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 31; Acts of 1966, c. 642, s. 12]
SECTION 61.   Authority of Public Facilities Commission to Lease or Sell Land.
   Without obtaining the consent of any board or officer other than the mayor,
the public facilities commission, without further authority, may, for such rent
or price and upon such terms as said commission may deem appropriate, lease or
sublease or sell, grant, and convey any surplus land, as hereinafter defined,
to the federal government or any agency thereof, the commonwealth or any
political subdivision or authority thereof or, if notice of intent to lease or
sell such land or buildings together with a statement of when and where written
details of such proposed lease or sale may be examined shall first have been
publicly advertised in the City Record once a week for two successive weeks, to
any person, firm, corporation or trust. “Surplus land”, as used in this
section, shall be deemed to mean land, buildings and real estate now or
hereafter belonging to the city and in the care, custody, management and
control of said commission (except parks and playgrounds) which at the time of
such lease or sale are or have been used for school purposes, or which have
been acquired by foreclosure of tax titles or acquired under section eighty of
chapter sixty of the General Laws, or which, irrespective of the manner or time
of acquisition, are not held by the city for a specific purpose, or which have
been transferred to the commission by the city council.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 31, amended by Acts of 1966, c. 642, s. 12]
SECTION 62.   Establishment of the Surplus Property Disposition Fund.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any general or special law to the contrary
the proceeds from the disposition of any surplus property other than that
acquired through tax title foreclosure shall be deposited in a separate fund
which shall be set up on the books of the city and shall be known as the
Surplus Property Disposition Fund, and shall be used only as follows:
      (1)   The amount equivalent to the debt incurred, and interest paid or
payable thereon, as a result of the acquisition or improvement from time to
time of the property shall be used only for purposes for which the city is
authorized to incur debt for a period of ten years or more;
      (2)   All proceeds in excess of such amount shall be credited to the
capital fund of the city unless the city council by a majority vote determines
with the approval of the mayor to credit such proceeds to the general fund of
the city.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 3, amended by Acts of 1941, c. 604, s. 1, amended by
Acts of 1954, c. 24, amended by Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 24, and further
amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 4]
SECTION 63.   Authority of the Public Facilities Commission to Dispose of Off-
Street Parking Structures.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of chapter four hundred and seventy-four of
the acts of nineteen hundred and forty-six or any other general or special law
to the contrary, the public facilities commission of the city of Boston may
dispose of any or all of the off-street parking structures, including the real
estate related thereto, owned by the city of Boston, as surplus property in
accordance with sections thirty-one B and thirty-one C of chapter four hundred
and eighty-six of the acts of nineteen hundred and nine, only when transferred
to the commission by a majority vote of the city council.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 3, amended by Acts of 1941, c. 604, s. 1, amended by
Acts of 1954, c. 24, amended by Acts of 1982, c. 190, s. 24, and further
amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 4]
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
SECTION 64.   Loans Issued by the City.
   All loans issued by the city after the passage of this act shall be made
payable in annual installments in the manner authorized by section thirteen of
chapter twenty-seven of the Revised Laws as amended by section one of chapter
three hundred and forty-one of the acts of the year nineteen hundred and eight.
No sinking fund shall be established for said loan. All bonds shall be offered
for sale in such a manner that the effect of the premiums, if any, shall be to
reduce the total amount of bonds issued. No city or county money shall be
deposited in any bank or trust company of which any member of the board of
sinking fund commissioners of said city is an officer, director, or agent.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 26]
SECTION 65.   List of Department Employees.
   Every officer and board in charge of a department of the city of Boston or
county of Suffolk shall, on or before the sixth day of February in each year,
prepare and furnish to the city auditor a list of the officials and employees
under said officer or board and paid by the city or county on the first day of
such February. Such list shall give the name, residence by street and ward,
designation, compensation, and date of election or appointment of each of said
officials and employees and the date when each first entered the employ of the
city or county. It shall be the duty of the city auditor to verify said lists
by the pay rolls and to keep a copy of said lists open for public inspection,
and to prepare and publish in the City Record on or before the tenth day of
April in each year a comparative table containing the number of such officials
and employees holding office or employed in each such department or board and
paid by the city or county on the compilation date in each of the ten years
next preceding such publication. The term “compilation date”, as herein used,
shall be construed to mean ... the first day of February.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 27, amended by Acts of 1938, c. 263, s. 1, and
further amended by Acts of 1951, c. 111]
SECTION 66.   Establishment of the Board of Street Commissioners.
   The jurisdiction [exercised by the board of alderman prior to the passage of
the Acts of 1909, c. 486] concerning the naming of streets, the planting and
removal of trees in the public ways, the issue of permits or licenses for
coasting, the storage of gasoline, oil, and other inflammable substances or
explosive compounds and the use of the public ways for any permanent or
temporary obstruction or projection in, under, or over the same, including the
location of conduits, poles, and posts for telephone, telegraph, street
railway, or illuminating purposes, is hereby vested in the board of street
commissioners, to be exercised by said board with the approval in writing of
the mayor; and the mayor and city council shall have authority to fix by
ordinance the terms by way of cash payment, rent, or otherwise, upon which
permits or licenses for the storage of gasoline or oil, or other inflammable
substances or explosive compounds, and the construction or use of coal holes,
vaults, bay windows, and marquises, in, under, or over the public ways shall be
issued.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 28]
SECTION 67.   Publication of City Record.
   [T]here shall be published at least once a week and distributed and sold
under the direction of the mayor and on terms to be fixed by the city council
and approved by the mayor a paper to be known as the “City Record.” All
advertising with reference to the sale of property for non-payment of taxes
shall appear exclusively in the City Record. All other advertising, whether
required by law or not, with reference to the purchase or taking of land,
contracts for work, materials or supplies, and the sale of bonds, shall appear
in said paper, and in such newspaper or newspapers as the mayor, in his
discretion, may order; a list of all contracts of one thousand dollars or more,
as awarded, with the names of bidders, and the amount of the bids; appointments
by the mayor; and changes in the number and compensation of employees in each
department, shall be published in the City Record. Failure to publish in such
newspaper or newspapers as the mayor may order shall not invalidate any
purchase, contract or sale made or action taken by the city. The proceedings of
the city council and school committee together with all communications from the
mayor shall be published in the City Record; provided, that the substance of
debates by and among the members of the city council shall not be so published
or published elsewhere at the expense of said city.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 29, amended by Acts of 1934, c. 185, s. 1, and
further amended by Acts of 1947, c. 447, s. 1]
SECTION 68.   Certain Contracts to be Made in Quintuplicate.
   Every officer or board in charge of a department in the city of Boston and
every officer, board or official of the county of Suffolk having power to incur
obligations on behalf of said county in cases in which such obligations are to
be paid for wholly from the treasury of the city shall: (i), if authorized to
erect a new building or to make structural changes in an existing building,
make not more than 5 contracts therefore, each such contract subject to the
approval of the mayor; and (ii), if about to do any work or make any purchase,
the estimated cost of which, alone or in conjunction with other similar work or
purchase may properly be included in that same contract, amounts to or exceeds
the threshold amount for a purchase requiring competitive, sealed bids or
proposals under chapter 30B of the General Laws, invite solicitations therefor
by advertisements in the City Record unless the mayor gives written authority
to do otherwise. Such advertisement shall state the time and place for opening
solicitations in answer to the advertisement and shall reserve the right of
such officer or board to reject any solicitation. No authority to dispense with
advertising shall be granted by the mayor unless such officer or board
furnishes the mayor with a signed statement. Such statement shall provide, in
detail, the reasons for not inviting solicitations by advertisement and shall
be published in the City Record.
[Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 30, amended by Acts of 1955, c. 60, s. 2, amended by
Acts of 1992, c. 373, s. 2 and further by Acts of 1998, c. 262, s. 2]
SECTION 69.   Contracts to be Accompanied by Sureties.
   All contracts made by any department of the city of Boston or by any
officer, board or official of the county of Suffolk having power to incur
obligations on behalf of said county in cases in which such obligations are to
be paid for wholly from the treasury of the city, shall, if the amount involved
amounts to or exceeds the threshold amount for purchases requiring competitive,
sealed bids or proposals under chapter 30B of the General Laws or if the
contract is subject to section 30 of chapter 486 of the acts of 1909, be
reduced to writing. No such contract shall be deemed to have been made or
executed until the approval of the mayor of the city has been affixed thereto
in writing and the auditor of the city has certified thereon that an
appropriation is available therefor or has cited thereon the statute under
authority of which the contract is being executed without an appropriation. All
such contracts shall be accompanied by a suitable bond or deposit of money or
other security for the faithful performance of such contracts, and such bonds
or other security shall be deposited with the city auditor until the contract
has been carried out in all respects; and no such contract shall be altered
except by a written agreement of the contractor, the sureties on his or their
bond, and the officer, board or official making the contract, with the approval
of the Mayor affixed thereto.
[Acts of 1890, c. 418, s. 6, amended by Acts of 1939, c. 156, s. 2, amended by
Acts of 1998, c. 262, s. 1 and further by Acts of 2011 c.196 s.1]
THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE AND SUPERINTENDENT.
SECTION 70.   Establishing a School Committee.
   Subject only to the provisions of [chapter one hundred and eight of the acts
of the year nineteen hundred ninety-one] the school committee of the city of
Boston shall consist of seven appointed members. The mayor of Boston shall have
the power to appoint the seven members of the school committee subject to the
provisions governing the nominating panel as set forth in [chapter one hundred
and eight of the acts of the year nineteen hundred ninety-one]. The members of
the school committee shall at all times during their terms of office be Boston
residents. The mayor shall strive to appoint individuals who reflect the
ethnic, racial and socioeconomic diversity of the city of Boston and its public
school population.
[Acts of 1991, c. 108, s. 2]
SECTION 71.   Terms of Office for School Committeemembers.
   The term of office of the members of the school committee shall be four
years and shall commence on the first day of the municipal year ... . The
office of each member shall expire upon the expiration of the term of said
member and shall become vacant. Any member whose term of office shall expire
may be considered for reappointment, but only if renominated by the nominating
panel. A president of the school committee shall be elected annually by its
members at the first meeting in each municipal year.
[Acts of 1991, c. 108, s. 4]
SECTION 72.   Establishing a Superintendent.
   The school committee of the city of Boston shall, by majority vote of the
whole number of its members, elect and contract with a superintendent of
schools for any period of time not to exceed six years. The school committee
exclusively shall fix the compensation of such superintendent, which sum shall
be in full for all services rendered to said city. The school committee may
remove the superintendent for just cause by a vote of three-fifths of the whole
number of its members after proper notice and public hearing. The
superintendent shall upon taking employment become, and during such employment
remain, a resident of said city as the term resident may be defined by
ordinance. Failure to maintain such residence shall be deemed a voluntary
termination of employment.
   The superintendent of schools shall be the executive officer of the school
committee in all matters pertaining to the powers and duties of the school
committee. The school committee shall take no action on any particular matter
without first receiving the superintendent’s recommendation thereon. The
superintendent shall give his recommendation before or during the regularly
scheduled meeting of the school committee next following the meeting at which
the particular matter is raised and at which the superintendent is asked to
prepare a recommendation thereon; provided, however, that the superintendent in
his sole discretion may elect to present any such recommendation at the school
committee meeting at which the particular matter is raised or thereafter but
prior to the next regularly scheduled school committee meeting. Any such
recommendation of the superintendent shall include the superintendent’s
estimate of the cost or savings involved, if any, and if the superintendent
estimates that there are costs involved, the recommendation shall identify
available budgeted funding sources or new funding sources. If the
superintendent fails to make a recommendation on a particular matter when
raised at such next regularly scheduled school committee meeting, the school
committee may take action thereon without receiving the superintendent’s
recommendation.
   The superintendent of schools shall at the beginning of the term for which
he was appointed, submit to the school committee a management plan for all
administrators and community and deputy superintendents serving at the
discretion of said superintendent. The school committee of said city, in the
year nineteen hundred and eighty-nine and every sixth year thereafter or in the
year when a superintendent is appointed shall vote by a two-thirds majority to
accept or reject the management plan submitted by the superintendent of
schools. The school committee shall accept a management plan of the
superintendent on or before September first in the year that the superintendent
is appointed to term.
[Acts of 1906, c. 231, s. 1, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 1, and further
amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613]
SECTION 73.   Superintendent’s Authority over School Department Positions.
   For the purposes of this section, all individuals engaged to render services
and paid pursuant to the school department’s budget shall be deemed to be
school department employees and their positions shall be deemed to be school
department positions.
   The superintendent of schools shall have the exclusive authority to make
appointments and promotions for all school department positions except for the
positions of community superintendent, an election or appointment of a
chairman, secretary or treasurer of the school committee, of school committee
administrative assistants appointed pursuant to chapter four hundred and sixty-
five of the acts of nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and of special assistant
corporation counsels. Prior to making an appointment or promotion to the
position of community superintendent, the superintendent of schools shall
present his recommendation thereon to the school committee at a regularly
scheduled meeting. Any such appointment or promotion shall be deemed approved
by the school committee on the sixth business day following the presentation of
said superintendent’s recommendation, unless a majority of the whole number of
the school committee’s members file with the secretary of the school committee
a written objection to the intended appointment or promotion within five
business days following the presentation of said superintendent’s
recommendation; in which case, the appointment or promotion shall be approved
only upon majority vote of the whole number of the members of the school
committee.
   Any general or special law to the contrary notwithstanding, a vote of the
school committee shall not be required for the appointment or promotion of any
school department employee except as provided in section one A.
[Acts of 1906, c. 231, s. 1, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 1, and further
amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613]
   Except as may be required by any collective bargaining agreement or by the
provisions of chapter thirty-one and chapter one hundred and fifty E of the
General Laws, and, subject to appropriation, the superintendent of schools
shall have the exclusive authority to fix the compensation of all school
department employees with the exception of school committee members; provided,
however, that the school committee shall fix the compensation of the
superintendent as provided in section [seventy-two] and shall fix the
compensation of school committee administrative assistants appointed pursuant
to chapter four hundred and sixty-five of the acts of nineteen hundred and
sixty-four.
[Acts of 1991, c. 108, s. 5]
   The superintendent of schools shall have the exclusive authority to assign,
reassign, suspend, lay-off, demote, remove and dismiss any school department
employees except school committee members and administrative assistants
appointed pursuant to chapter four hundred and sixty-five of the acts of
nineteen hundred and sixty-four. Any general or special law to the contrary
notwithstanding, the actions of the superintendent of schools pursuant to this
subsection shall be deemed to be the actions of the school committee under the
General Laws. In exercising his authority under this subsection, the
superintendent shall have the authority and powers, and be subject to the
limitations, otherwise applicable to the school committee, including but not
limited to the terms of any collective bargaining agreement imposed by chapter
one hundred and fifty E of the General Laws. In the case of actions taken
pursuant to this subsection as to which notice or hearing, or both, would
otherwise be afforded to the subject school department employee by the school
committee, such notice or hearing, or both, shall be afforded instead by the
superintendent of schools or his designee. In the event that said
superintendent delegates to a designee the conduct of a hearing for an affected
school department employee, said superintendent shall base his decision upon
the evidence presented at such hearing. This section shall not affect the
rights of teachers under sections forty-two, forty-three A and forty-three B of
chapter seventy-one of the General Laws.
   The superintendent of schools shall have the authority to supervise and
direct school department employees except school committee members and
administrative assistants appointed pursuant to chapter four hundred and sixty-
five of the acts of nineteen hundred and sixty-four, and special assistant
corporation counsels to the extent that their legal work is directed and
supervised by the corporation counsel of the city of Boston.
   Except as specifically provided herein, nothing in this section shall be
construed or interpreted so as to limit in any way the existing employment
rights of school employees, including rights of tenure and seniority as
provided by chapter seventy-one and chapter thirty-one of the General Laws as
well as those employment rights provided under applicable collective bargaining
agreements and chapter one hundred and fifty E of the General Laws.
[Acts of 1906, c. 231, s. 1, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 1, and further
amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613]
SECTION 74.   Fiscal Responsibilities of Superintendent.
   The school committee may delegate, in whole or in part, to the
superintendent of schools the authority to approve for the school department
the acceptance and expenditure of grants or gifts of funds from the federal
government, charitable foundations, private corporations, individuals, or from
the commonwealth, its counties, municipalities or an agency thereof, the
provisions of section fifty-three A of chapter forty-four of the General Laws
notwithstanding.
   The superintendent of schools shall provide to the school committee, the
city auditor and the city office of budget and program evaluation of the city
of Boston a report, detailing the source, purpose and balance on hand of all
funds received or expended pursuant to [the above paragraph], quarterly.
   The superintendent of schools shall submit to the school committee for
approval an annual budget of the school department for the forthcoming fiscal
year no later than the first Wednesday in February prior to the beginning of
such fiscal year. The school committee may adopt, reject, reduce or increase
any item in the recommended budget; provided, however, that if the school
committee fails to take definite action on the annual budget on or before the
fourth Wednesday in March of each year, the annual budget as recommended by the
superintendent shall be deemed approved as if formally approved by the school
committee. After approval of an annual budget by the school committee, said
superintendent shall submit said approved budget to the mayor who may approve
or reduce the total recommended budget. Thereafter, not later than the second
Wednesday in May of each year, the mayor shall submit said annual budget to the
city council for an appropriation of funds. Said superintendent shall not
approve the appointment of any person except to a budgeted position.
   For the purposes of section sixteen of chapter four hundred and eighty-six
of the acts of nineteen hundred and nine, members of the school committee and
the superintendent of schools shall be deemed to be the officials responsible
for the expenditures of the school department, the provisions of section
eighteen of chapter one hundred and ninety of the acts of nineteen hundred and
eighty-two to the contrary notwithstanding.
   Subject to appropriations therefor, the superintendent of schools shall have
the exclusive authority to make on behalf of the school committee contracts, or
amendments to contracts, for the purchase or rental of equipment, materials,
goods or supplies, leases of property, alterations and repairs of school
property, and for professional or other services, with the exception of
collective bargaining agreements and contracts for the transportation of
students. All school department contracts or amendments to contracts shall
otherwise conform to the requirements of the city charter of the city of
Boston.
   With respect to all contracts, agreements or amendments thereto made or
entered into by the school department, the superintendent shall be responsible
for establishing procedures for auditing and monitoring the compliance of the
parties with the terms and obligation of such contracts, agreements or
amendments thereto.
[Acts of 1906, c. 231, s. 1, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 1, and further
amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613]
SECTION 75.   Appropriation for Support of the Public Schools.
   The city of Boston shall annually provide an amount of money sufficient for
the support of the public schools as required by law; provided, however, that
said city shall not be required to provide more money for the support of the
public schools than is appropriated in accordance with the provisions of
chapter four hundred and eighty-six of the acts of nineteen hundred and nine,
as amended. In acting on appropriations for educational costs, the city council
shall vote on the total amount of the appropriations requested by the mayor,
but neither the mayor nor the city council shall allocate appropriations among
accounts or place any restriction on such appropriations. The appropriation of
said city shall establish the total appropriation for the support of the public
schools, but may not limit the authority of the school committee to determine
expenditures within the total appropriation; provided, however, that if the
city auditor determines that school department expenditures in any fiscal year
are projected to be in excess of total budgeted expenditures for that fiscal
year, as supported by appropriation and other available funding, then the
school committee shall not reallocate or transfer funds from any item in the
budget for that fiscal year to fund any such projected additional expenditures.
   After the fourth Wednesday of March of any fiscal year, the school committee
shall not initiate or authorize any new or additional programs or categories of
expenditures requiring additional unbudgeted expenditures unless such programs
or categories have been incorporated and fully funded in the budget for the
subsequent fiscal year. If such programs or categories have not been
incorporated or fully funded in the budget for the subsequent fiscal year, they
shall not be initiated or authorized until the school committee shall have
amended its budget submission for the subsequent fiscal year to reduce or
eliminate other costs, programs or categories in amounts equal to the projected
annualized costs of the new or additional programs or categories of
expenditures.
   The superintendent of schools shall prepare and submit to the school
committee, the city auditor and the city office of budget and program
evaluation, a monthly budget update report which shall detail and itemize year-
to-date and projected school department expenditures and budget transfers.
   The superintendent may, after the fourth Wednesday in March, but prior to
the annual appropriation, enter into contracts with the publishers or suppliers
of instructional materials and books for the timely purchase and delivery of
the same to be used in the schools of the school department of the city of
Boston for the school year commencing during the fiscal year for which a
recommended appropriation has been submitted but not yet approved; provided,
however, that such contracts for the supply and delivery of said instructional
materials and books shall be charged to the appropriation of the next fiscal
year, and provided further that the total amount of funds obligated for such
instructional materials and books ordered prior to the annual appropriation
shall be limited to the amount appropriated for such expenditures in the then
current annual budget and shall not exceed that amount. Pending the final
annual appropriation for the school department, the city auditor may approve
such contracts for the purchase and delivery of instructional materials and
books, provided, however, that such contracts shall in all other respects
conform to the requirements of the city charter of said city.
[Acts of 1936, c. 224, s. 2, amended by Acts of 1986, c. 701, s. 5, and further
amended by Acts of 1987, c. 613, s. 2]
SECTION 76.   Provision for Administrative Assistant.
   Notwithstanding any special or general law to the contrary, the members of
the school committee appointed pursuant to this act shall not have the
authority to hire personal staff; provided, however, that a paid administrative
assistant may be appointed by the president of the school committee. [Acts of
1991, c. 108, s. 5]
SECTION 77.   Nominating Panel for Appointment of School Committee.
   There shall be in the city of Boston a nominating panel composed of thirteen
members whose sole function shall be to nominate persons for consideration by
the mayor for appointment to the school committee. Representation on the panel
and the selection of said members shall be as follows:
      (1)   Four parents of children in the Boston public school system as
follows: (i) one parent who shall be selected by the citywide parents council;
(ii) one parent who shall be selected by the citywide educational coalition;
(iii) one parent who shall be selected by the Boston special needs parent
advisory council; and (iv) one parent who shall be selected by the bilingual
education citywide parent advisory council.
      (2)   One teacher in the Boston public school system who shall be
selected by the Boston teachers union from its membership.
      (3)   One headmaster or principal in the Boston public school system who
shall be selected by the Boston association of school administrators and
supervisors from its membership.
      (4)   One representative from the Boston business community as follows:
one representative each shall be selected by the private industry council, the
Boston municipal research bureau, and Boston chamber of commerce from their
respective memberships. Such representatives shall serve on a rotating basis as
follows: the representative from the private industry council shall serve for
the first year of the first term of the nominating panel; the representative
from the Boston municipal research bureau shall serve for the second year of
the first term of the nominating panel; the representative from the Boston
chamber of commerce shall serve for the first year of the second term of the
nominating panel; and so forth.
      (5)   One president of a public or private college or university who
shall be selected by the chancellor of higher education of the commonwealth.
      (6)   One person shall be the commissioner of education of the
commonwealth.
      (7)   Four persons who shall be appointed by the mayor. The members of
the nominating panel shall be selected from time to time no later than
September thirtieth and shall serve for a term of two years, except as
otherwise provided in this section. In the event that any member does not
complete his or her term for any reason, the person or entity who selected such
member shall select another person in like manner to complete the unexpired
term.
[Acts of 1991, c. 108, s. 6]
SECTION 78.   Nomination of the School Committee.
   The nominating panel annually shall from among its membership elect a
chairman who shall forthwith file a list of the names and addresses of the
members of the panel with the city clerk. The panel shall meet in public for
the sole purpose of deliberating upon, hearing public comment with respect to,
and finally selecting a list of nominees to be presented to the mayor from time
to time. Each nominee shall be a resident of Boston at the time of such
nomination. The panel shall strive to nominate individuals who reflect the
ethnic, racial and socioeconomic diversity of the city of Boston and its public
school population.
   On the first Wednesday of October of every year the nominating panel shall
convene to select not fewer than three but not more than five nominees for each
office of school committee member that shall become vacant on the first day of
the next municipal year. No later than the first Monday in December of each
year, the panel shall present to the mayor a list containing the names and
addresses of the said nominees for each term of office to commence on the first
day of the next municipal year; provided, however, should the panel fail to
present said list to the mayor by said first Monday in December, the mayor
shall have the power to appoint any person he deems suitable to the office of
school committee for the term to commence in the following January.
   Upon notice provided by the city clerk that a vacancy exists in the office
of any school committee member due to death or resignation, the panel shall
convene within ten days of such notice and shall, within thirty days after so
convening, select and present to the mayor a list containing the names and
addresses of not fewer than three but not more than five nominees. Within
fifteen days after such presentment, the mayor shall appoint a school committee
member to serve the unexpired term of the vacant office; provided, however,
should the panel fail to present said list within said thirty days, the mayor
shall have the power to appoint any person he deems suitable to the vacant
office to serve said unexpired term.
[Acts of 1991, c. 108, s. 7]
APPENDIX A
BALLOT QUESTIONS—1909, 1948, 1996, 2021
I. Acts of 1909, c. 486, s. 35
   SECTION 35: At the state election on November second, nineteen hundred and
nine, the then registered male voters of the city of Boston shall be entitled
to vote upon the following plans, which shall be printed upon the official
ballot in the following form. The voters shall make a cross in the space at the
right of the plan which he desires to have adopted. No ballot shall be counted
upon which the voter has made a cross in both spaces.
      Plan No. 1. The term of mayor to be two years; the city council to
consist of one member from each ward (except wards twenty and twenty-four,
which shall have two each) nominated in primaries and elected for two-year
terms; nominations for school committee, mayor, and councilmen-at-large to be
made by independent nominations and by delegates elected by the voters in the
primaries.
      Plan No. 2. The term of mayor to be four years, subject to recall after
two years by not less than a majority of all the voters in the city; the city
council to consist of nine members elected at large for three-year terms; all
nominations for a municipal election to be made by petition of not less than
five thousand voters, without party designations on the ballot.
 
Results                  November 2, 1909
Plan 1  Plan 2 Blanks Total
35, 276 39,170 5,970  80,416
Registered Voters: 107,918
 
II. Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 3
   SECTION 3: A petition, as hereinafter described, addressed to the board of
election commissioners and signed by qualified voters of the city to a number
equal at least to ten per cent of the registered voters at the state election
next preceding the filing of the petition may be filed with the board of
election commissioners not later than five o’clock of the afternoon of the
first Wednesday in July next preceding the regular municipal election at which
the question proposed by the petition is to be submitted to a vote of the
voters, and such petition shall set forth any one of the following questions:
      Question One. “Shall the City of Boston adopt the form of government
defined as Plan A under the provisions of an act passed by the General Court in
the year nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and consisting of a mayor, a city
council of nine members elected at-large, and a school committee of five
members elected at-large, with all candidates therefor being nominated by
preliminary elections?” 6
 
Results                  November 8, 1949
Yes     No      Total
146,162 73,882  220,044
 
      Question Two. “Shall the City of Boston adopt the form of government
defined as Plan D under the provisions of an act passed by the General Court in
the year nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and consisting of a city council of
nine members elected at-large, including a mayor elected by and from its
members, and a city manager appointed by it, and a school committee of five
members elected at-large, with each voter having the right to vote for six
members of the city council and three members of the school committee, and with
all candidates for said elective offices being nominated by preliminary
elections?” 7
      Question Three. “Shall the City of Boston adopt the form of government
defined as Plan E under the provisions of an act passed by the General Court in
the year nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and consisting of a city council of
nine members elected at-large, including a mayor elected by and from its
members, a city manager appointed by it, and a school committee of five members
elected at-large, with all said elective officers being elected by proportional
representation?” [Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 3] 8
   The petition shall be in the form of separate sheets; and each sheet of said
petition shall be in substantially the following form:
   To the Board of Election Commissioners, City of Boston:
   We, the undersigned, qualified voters of the City of Boston, respectfully
petition you to cause to be submitted to a vote of the voters of the City of
Boston the following question: (insert one of three questions as set forth
above).
   To the Board of Election Commissioners, City of Boston:
   We, the undersigned, qualified voters of the City of Boston, respectfully
petition you to cause to be submitted to a vote of the voters of the City of
Boston the following question: (insert one of three questions as set forth
above).
 
      SIGNATURES       RESIDENCE ON                NOW LIVING AT
CHECK (To be made in   JANUARY 1, 19__    W’P’cStreet and Number, W’P’ct
      person with name Street and Number,          if any
      as registered)   if any
 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
Suffolk, ss.   Boston,   (Date), 19__
   The undersigned, being the circulator or circulators of this paper,
severally certify, under the pains and penalties of perjury, that the persons
whose names are written upon the lines the numbers of which appear opposite our
signatures below, signed the same in person.
 
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PERSONS CIRCULATING Numbers of Lines Upon Which Appear
THIS PAPER                                 Signatures as to Which Certification
                                           is Made Hereby
Name Address
 
   The signature of any petitioner which is not so certified shall not be
counted in determining the number of petitioners.
   A separate typewritten sheet in substantially the aforesaid form, signed by
at least ten and not more than fifteen qualified voters of the city, shall, not
earlier than the first Wednesday of February next preceding the regular
municipal election at which the question set forth on said typewritten sheet is
to be submitted to a vote of the voters, be presented to the board of election
commissioners. Within forty- eight hours after the presentation of said
typewritten sheet said board shall certify thereon the number of signatures
which are the names of qualified voters in the city; and if said typewritten
sheet contain the signatures of at least ten qualified voters as aforesaid,
said board shall within ten days after the presentation of said typewritten
sheet provide blanks for the use of subsequent signers, sufficient in number to
contain spaces for signatures equal at least to twenty times the number of
signatures required as above provided, shall print at the top of each blank the
question set forth on said typewritten sheet, together with the names and
residences of the certified signers, and shall number each of said blanks
consecutively. Said typewritten sheet shall upon presentation be photostated by
said board and shall within ten days after presentation be returned by said
board to the signers or any one of them, who shall offer said typewritten sheet
for filing with the printed sheets as hereinafter provided. The petition shall
consist solely of the typewritten sheet and of printed sheets provided by said
board as aforesaid.
   Such separate sheets, containing at least the required number of signatures
of qualified voters as aforesaid, shall not be offered for filing separately
but shall be offered as one petition, and when so filed, together the several
papers shall be deemed to constitute the petition, and the name and address of
the person presenting the same for filing shall be endorsed thereon. The board
of election commissioners shall forthwith examine the petition and certify
thereon the number of signatures which are the names of qualified voters in the
city, except that said board need not certify a greater number of names than is
equal in number to twelve per cent of the registered voters at the state
election next preceding the filing of the petition, and said board shall attach
thereon its certificate showing the results of such examination. The petition
shall, when filed, be a matter of public record, but it shall not be open to
public inspection until after certification of the signatures thereon. Not
later than thirty days after the petition has been filed with them, said
election commissioners shall complete such certification. The provisions of law
relative to the signing and circulating of nomination papers of candidates for
office in the city and to the identification and certification of names thereon
and submission to the board of election commissioners therefor shall apply, so
far as apt, to the signing of petitions hereunder.
   Any petition certified by the board of election commissioners as not
containing at least the required number of signatures as aforesaid, or found by
the state ballot law commission, upon appeal as provided in section four, not
to contain at least said required number of valid certified signatures as
herein provided, shall be invalid and insufficient. The board of election
commissioners and the state ballot law commission shall receipt in writing for
the petition submitted to and received by them and shall deliver the petition
only on receiving written receipt therefor. [Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 3]
 
Notes
6     Plan A, as noted in the ballot question, is fully described in Acts of
  1948, c. 452, ss. 10-20, 53-65, et al., as amended.
7     Plan D, as noted in the ballot question, is fully described in Acts of
  1948, c. 452, ss. 21-22, 25-52, 53-65, et al., as amended.
8     Plan E, as noted in the ballot question, is fully described in Acts of
  1948, c. 452, ss. 23-24, 25-52, 66-70, et al., as amended.
III. Acts of 1991, c. 108
   The elected School Committee was abolished and an appointed School Committee
was established by St. 1991, c. 108 which was preceded by a nonbinding ballot
question on November 7, 1989.
      “Should the elected school committee structure be changed to a new seven
member school board serving four year terms, appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council from a list of Boston residents selected by a
nominating panel comprised of community leaders, parents, educators, business
and labor leaders; provided that within eight years after any such change is
enacted, voters shall be given the opportunity to evaluate the new governance
structure?”
 
      Question 2 Results            November 7, 1989
Yes    No      Total Ballots
29,183 28,314  57,497
 
   St. 1991, c. 108 gained its final approval on July 5, 1991. A subsequent
ballot question was presented to the voters of the City of Boston on November
5, 1996:
      “Shall an act passed in the General Court in 1991, entitled ‘An Act
Reorganizing the School Committee of the City of Boston’ be repealed as of
January 1998 and in place thereof the school committee structure as existing in
1991 be reconstituted after an election held in 1997?”
 
      Question 2 Results            November 5, 1996
Yes    No     Blanks Total Ballots
41,070 94,200 39,689 174,959
 
IV. Ballot Question 1 (2021): Charter Amendment
   Section 48 of the Charter, regarding the city’s annual budget process, was
amended by a binding ballot question on November 2, 2021. The ballot question
was submitted by the Council pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 43B.
   In 2020, a City Councilor, in accordance with G.L. c. 43B, §10(b), filed a
written request with the City Clerk to amend the Boston City Charter (Docket
#0851). Pursuant to G.L. c. 43B, §10(b), following the filed written request,
the Council voted in the affirmative to amend the charter as proposed and the
same was sent to the Attorney General’s Office for Constitutional and statutory
review. The Attorney General’s Office ruled that provisions of the proposal
requiring that the Mayor set aside a portion of the budget in a fund for
participatory budgeting conflicted with state law.
   In 2021, a City Councilor, re-filed a written request and proposal including
the Attorney General’s suggestions  (Docket #0605). The Council voted in the
affirmative to amend the charter as proposed and the same was sent back to the
Attorney General’s Office for Constitutional and statutory review and no
conflicts were found. Following communication from the Attorney General, the
City Council President requested the City Clerk share the proposed amendment
with the Board of Election Commissioners to mail out to registered voters
(Docket #0895).
   Question 1: “Shall this city approve the charter amendment proposed by the
city council summarized below?
Summary of Proposed Charter Amendment
   The proposed amendment to the Boston City Charter would change the City of
Boston’s budget process in several ways.
   Under the proposed amendment, the Mayor and City Council would hold
budgetary powers together, with the power to modify and amend appropriation
orders. As is the case now, under the amendment only the Mayor may initially
submit a budget or appropriation order. Currently, the City Council can adopt
or reject a budget, or reduce specific items in a budget. Under the proposed
amendment, the City Council would have the ability to amend the budget by
reallocating funds among existing or new line items. The total amount of the
City Council’s amended version of the budget, however, could not exceed the
total amount of the budget proposed by the Mayor. The Mayor could accept or
reject the City Council’s version of the budget, or amend any line item in the
City Council’s version of the budget. The City Council would have the ability
to override the Mayor’s veto or amendments by a two-thirds vote. In addition,
the Mayor and City Council would also be able to amend the Boston Public School
budget, subject to existing laws, providing that only the Boston School
Committee may originate a school budget or allocate spending within a school
budget.
   The proposed amendment also requires the City Council and Mayor to create by
ordinance an independent Office of Participatory Budgeting, including an
external oversight board, to further public engagement with public spending.
Under the proposed amendment, the office could create and oversee an equitable
and binding decision-making process open to all Boston residents. The structure
of the office and oversight board, and the binding decision-making process on
the budget, would be described in the future ordinance enacted by the City
Council and the Mayor.”
 
Question 1 Results November 2, 2021
Yes    No
82,342 39,835
 
APPENDIX B
STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY
 
   THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
   CITY OF BOSTON
   STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY
   A nomination petition shall be issued only to a person subscribing after the
twenty-third Tuesday, and before the nineteenth Tuesday at 5:00 P.M., preceding
the preliminary election, in a book kept for the purpose by the election
commission, a statement of candidacy in substantially the following form:
   The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
   City of Boston
   Statement of Candidacy
 
   I, (name with first or middle name in full), under the pains and penalties
of perjury declare that I reside at (street and number, if any) in District
(number) of the City of Boston; that I am a registered voter of said City duly
qualified to vote for a candidate for the office hereinafter mentioned; that I
am a candidate for nomination for the office of (Mayor or City Councillor-at-
Large or City Councillor representing District (number)) ______; that I request
that my name be printed as such candidate on the official ballot to be used at
the preliminary municipal election to be held on Tuesday, __________________,
19___, for the purpose of nominating candidates for election to such office;
and that I also request that my nomination petition contain the following
statement (not exceeding eight words) concerning the elective public offices
now or formerly held by me:
___________________________________________
Signature of Candidate
[Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 55 as amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.55 as
further amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 3, as further amended by Acts of
2004, c. 476, ss. 3, 4]
APPENDIX C
NOMINATION PETITION
   A nomination petition may consist of one or more sheets; but each sheet
shall be in substantially the following form.
   Every nomination petition sheet shall, before issuance, be prepared by the
election commission by printing or inserting thereon the matter required by the
first two paragraphs of the [] form [contained in this Appendix]. Not more than
three hundred nomination petition sheets shall be issued to any candidate for
nomination to the office of mayor under Plan A and not more than one hundred
and fifty such sheets shall be issued to any candidate for nomination to the
office of city councillor-at-large ... . Not more than twenty nomination sheets
shall be issued to any candidate for nomination to the office of district city
councillor....No nomination petition sheet shall be received or be valid unless
prepared and issued by the election commission; nor shall any such sheet be
received to be valid unless the written acceptance of the candidate thereby
nominated is endorsed thereon, anything in section three A of chapter fifty of
the General Laws to the contrary notwithstanding. [Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 55,
amended by Acts of 1951, c. 376, s. 2.55A, amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s.
4, and further amended by Acts of 2004, c. 476, ss. 5, 6]
   FORM FOR NOMINATION PETITION
   IS INCLUDED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE
   THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
   CITY OF BOSTON
   NOMINATION PETITION
   Whereas (name of candidate) residing at (street and number, if any) in
District (number) of the City of Boston, (here insert any lawfully requested
statement concerning the elective public offices held by candidate) is a
candidate for nomination for the office of (Mayor or City Councillor-at-Large
or District City Councillor...), the undersigned, registered voters of the City
of Boston, duly qualified to vote for a candidate for said office, do hereby
request that the name of said (name of candidate) as a candidate for nomination
for said office be printed on the official ballot to be used at the preliminary
municipal election to be held on Tuesday, __________, 19__.
   Each of the undersigned does hereby certify that he or she has not
subscribed (if the petition relates to the office of mayor or district city
councillor.... here insert: any other nomination petition for said office; if
the petition relates to the office of city councillor-at-large ... , here
insert: more than three other nomination petitions for said office).
   In case the above-named candidate withdraws his name from nomination or is
found to be ineligible or dies, we authorize (names and residences of a
committee of not less than five persons) or a majority thereof as our
representatives to fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by law.
 
SIGNATURE OF NOMINATOR                                                            CURRENT RESIDENCE                                                                     RESIDENCE OF REGISTRATION 
                                                                                                                                                                       
(To be signed by the nominator in person with the nominator’s name precisely as (If the nominator’s current residence is not the address at which the WARD PRECINCT (If the nominator is not registered to vote at the “Current Residence” then the
given when the nominator registered to vote)                                      nominator is registered to vote then the nominator shall complete the                 nominator shall complete this column)
                                                                                  column titled “Residence of Registration”)
 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
SUFFOLK, ss.                                 Boston,______________, 19____.
   The undersigned, being the circulator or circulators of this sheet,
severally certify, under the pains and penalties of perjury, that the persons
whose names are written upon the lines the number of which appear opposite our
signatures below, signed the same in person.
 
NAMES AND ADDESSES OF PERSONS CIRCULATING NUMBERS OF LINES UPON WHICH APPEAR
THIS SHEET                                SIGNATURES AS TO WHICH CERTIFICATION
                                          IS MADE HEREBY
NAME ADDRESS
 
I hereby accept the nomination.
____________________________________
Signature of Candidate
This nomination petition sheet filed by ______________________
APPENDIX D
FORM FOR ELECTION BALLOTS
   On the day of the posting provided for by section [twenty-six C], or as soon
thereafter as conveniently may be, the election commission shall draw by lot
the position of the candidates on the ballot. Each candidate shall have an
opportunity to be present at such drawing in person or by one representative.
As soon as conveniently may be after such drawing, the election commission
shall cause the ballots to be printed. Said ballots shall, in addition to the
directions and numbers provided for by section [twenty-eight], contain, in the
order drawn by the election commission, the names posted as aforesaid (except
those of candidates deemed under section [twenty-six C] to have been
nominated), and no others, with a designation of residence and district and the
title and term of the office for which the person named is a candidate, and the
statement, if any, contained in his nomination petition concerning the elective
public officers held by him. Said ballots shall be official and no others shall
be used at the preliminary election. Said ballots shall be headed as follows:
 
   OFFICIAL PRELIMINARY MUNICIPAL ELECTION BALLOT
 
   Candidates for nomination for the offices of _____________________________ in
the
 
City of Boston at the preliminary municipal election to be held on Tuesday,
___________, 19_____.
 
The heading of said ballots shall be varied in accordance with the offices for
which nominations are to be made. [Acts of 1948, c. 452, s. 58, amended by Acts
of 1951, c.376, s. 2.58, and further amended by Acts of 1983, c. 342, s. 8]
APPENDIX E
CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT FOR HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS
In making such appointments the mayor shall sign a certificate in the following
form:
 
   Certificate of Appointment
 
   I appoint (Name of Appointee) to the position of (Name of Office) and I certify that in my opinion he is a recognized
expert in the work which will devolve upon him, and that I make the appointment solely in the interest of the
city.                                                      , Mayor.
 
   Or in the following form, as the case may be:
 
   Certificate of Appointment
 
   I appoint (Name of Appointee) to the position of (Name of Office) and I certify that in my
opinion he is a person specially fitted by education, training, or experience to perform the
duties of said office, and that I make the appointment solely in the interest of the
city.                     , Mayor
 
   The certificate shall be filed with the city clerk, who shall thereupon
forward a certified copy to the civil service commission. The commission shall
immediately make a careful inquiry into the qualifications of the nominee under
such rules as they may, with the consent of the governor and council,
establish, and, if they conclude that he is a competent person with the
requisite qualifications, they shall file with the city clerk a certificate
signed by at least a majority of the commission that they have made a careful
inquiry into the qualifications of the appointee, and that in their opinion he
is a recognized expert, or that he is qualified by education, training or
experience for said office, as the case may be, and that they approve the
appointment. Upon the filing of this certificate the appointment shall become
operative, subject however to all provisions of law or ordinance in regard to
acceptance of office, oath of office, and the filing of bonds. If the
commission does not within thirty days after the receipt of such notice file
said certificate with the city clerk the appointment shall be void. [Acts of
1909, c.486, s. 10]
APPENDIX I
PLAIN LANGUAGE VERSION OF THE BOSTON CITY CHARTER
   Boston City Charter—Plain Language
   Table of Contents
General Provisions
Section 1   Definitions
Section 2   Possible Types of Government
Section 3   How a New Plan of Government is Chosen
Section 4   Reserved
Section 5   Reserved
Section 6   Minimum Length of Plan
Section 7   Other Requirements for a New Plan
Section 8   End of Term for Current Officials
Section 9   Beginning and End of Fiscal and Municipal Years
Form of Government: Modified Plan A
Section 10   Plan A
Section 11   Definitions of Mayor, City Council, and School Committee
Section 11A    Requirement to Take an Oath
Section 11B    When the Mayor’s Office is Vacant
General Powers of Mayor and City Council
Section 12   How Long Mayor Serves
Section 13   Special Election for New Mayor
Section 13A    Salary of the Mayor
Section 14   City Councillors
Section 15   When a City Councillor-at-Large’s Office is Vacant
Section 15A    When a District City Councillor’s Office is Vacant
Section 15B    Rules and Exceptions for Special Elections
Section 16   Salary of City Councillors
Section 17   Electing a City Council President
Section 17A    The Mayor May Summon a Meeting of City Council
Section 17B    City Council’s Control over Offices
Section 17C    How the City Council Votes in Elections
Section 17D    Mayor’s Approval of City Council Actions
Section 17E    Ordinances and Loan Orders
Section 17F    City Council’s Requests for Specific Information
Section 17G    Contracts Made by City Councillors
Section 17H    City Councillors Holding Other Offices
Section 17I     Summons and Subpoena Powers
City Districts
Section 18   Boundaries for City Council Districts
Section 19   No Wards
Section 20   City Councillors Must Live in Their District
Procedures Relating to Elections
Section 21   City Elections
Section 22   Different Kinds of Elections
Section 23   Qualifications for Candidates
Section 24   Statement of Candidacy/Signing the Book
Section 24A    Nomination Petitions
Section 25   Signature Requirements for Nomination
Section 26   Counting the Signatures
Section 26A    How Voters Can Try to Stop a Nomination Petition
Section 26B    Quitting and Substituting for Non-Mayoral Candidates
Section 26C    Informing Voters about the Candidates
Section 27   Printing of Preliminary Ballots
Section 28   Description of Ballot and Ballot Position Drawing
Section 29   Counting of Preliminary Ballots
Section 30   Who Wins a Preliminary Election
Section 31   Printing of Names on General Election Ballots
Section 32   No References to Political Parties on Ballots
Section 33   Write-In Votes
Organization of City Departments
Section 34   Changing Departments and Agencies
Section 35   Appointments by the Mayor
Section 36   Making Sure that Mayoral Appointments are Qualified
Section 37   Expenses of the Civil Service Commission
Section 38   What Happens When a Department Head’s Office is Vacant
Section 39   How Long Members of Boards and Department Heads Serve
Section 40   Removing Heads of Departments
Section 41   Exceptions to Civil Service Laws
Section 42   Officials May Not Spend More Money than is Allocated
Section 42A   Renewing Contracts Prior to Approval of the Budget
The Finance Commission
Section 43   Creation of a Finance Commission
Section 44   Investigations and Reports
Section 45   Commencing an Investigation
Section 46   Commission Funds
Section 47   Powers of the Finance Commission
Public Spending
Section 48   Creation and Approval of the Municipal Budget
Section 49   Spending Money before the New Budget is Passed
Section 50   Moving Money
Section 51   Acceptance, Receipt, and Expenditure of Grants/Gifts
The City Clerk and the City Auditor
Section 52   How Long the City Clerk Serves
Section 53   Duties of City Auditor
Section 54   When Too Little or Too Much is Spent
Section 55   Double Checking the City’s Finances by an Audit Committee
Fiscal Responsibilities
Section 56   Emergency (Reserve) Fund
Section 57   Employee Spending and Moving Money
Section 58   Guarantees for the Hospitalization and Insurance Account
Public Facilities Commission and Surplus Property
Section 59   Acquiring/Taking Land for Municipal Purposes
Section 60   Changing the Use of Land
Section 61   Leasing or Selling Surplus Land (not Parks and Playgrounds)
Section 62   Money from the Sale of Land
Section 63   Off-Street Parking Structures as Extra Property
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 64   Loans Made by the City of Boston
Section 65   List of Department Employees
Section 66   Powers of the Board of Street Commissioners
Section 67   Contents and Publication of the City Record
Section 68   Making Certain Contracts and Publishing Proposals
Section 69   Requirements of Contracts (Sureties)
The School Committee and Superintendent
Section 70   Creating a School Committee
Section 71   How Long Members Serve—Election of President
Section 72   Appointing a Superintendent’s and Duties of Superintendent
Section 73   Superintendent’s Authority to Hire, Fire, and Promote
Section 74   Budget and Contracts
Section 75   Getting and Spending School Department Money
Section 76   Assistant to the President of the School Committee
Section 77   Nominating Panel
Section 78   Choosing Nominees for the School Committee
Boston City Charter – Plain English
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
•   City -- The city of Boston.
•   Board of election commissioners -- The board of election commissioners of
the city of Boston.
•   Preliminary election -- The election held for the purpose of nominating
candidates whose names shall appear on the official ballot at a municipal
election.
•   Proportional representation -- Any proportional representation method of
election authorized by chapter 54A of the General Laws.
•   Present form of city government -- The form of city government in effect in
the city when it first adopts one of the three optional plans of government
provided in this act.
SECTION 2. PERMISSIBLE TYPES OF GOVERNMENT.
•   If the city wishes to adopt a new form of government then it may adopt any
of the plans in this act at a regular election.
•   If a new plan is adopted, old laws consistent with the new plan shall
remain in effect.
•   Choosing a new plan does not alter any rights, responsibilities, or powers
of the city as a municipal corporation.
SECTION 3. HOW A NEW PLAN OF GOVERNMENT IS CHOSEN.
•   10% of voters registered for the next state election must sign a petition
asking for a new government plan.
•   The petition must be filed by 5:00 p.m. on the 1st Wednesday in July before
the election.
•   See Appendix A for descriptions of different potential plans.
SECTION 4. Reserved.
SECTION 5. Reserved.
SECTION 6. MINIMUM DURATION OF PLAN.
•   A new plan must last for at least 4 years.
•   No petition for a new plan may be filed before 3 years have passed under
the current plan.
•   This period begins when the officials under the new plan take office.
SECTION 7. OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR A NEW PLAN.
•   The procedures for proposing and adopting a new plan must come from the
City Charter (this act).
SECTION 8. END OF TERM FOR CURRENT OFFICIALS.
•   When a new plan is chosen, the current elected officers and the city
manager must leave office by 10:00 a.m. on the 1st Monday of the 2nd January
under the new plan.
SECTION 9. BEGINNING AND END OF FISCAL AND MUNICIPAL YEARS.
•   Fiscal Year – July 1 through June 30.
•   Municipal Year – The first Monday in January through the first Monday in
the next January.
FORM OF GOVERNMENT: MODIFIED PLAN A
Government by Mayor, City Council, and School Committee,
Elected at-large with Preliminary Elections
   Boston’s governmental structure is not a Plan A form of government as
delineated under the Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 43 because Boston’s
government pre-dated the modern M.G.L. choices and Boston’s Plan A is derived
from the choices articulated in Acts of 1948, chapter 452 which offered voters
act-specific Plan A, Plan D, or Plan E.
SECTION 10. PLAN A.
   •   Boston’s form of government is called Plan A.
   •   This is not the Plan A form of government delineated in Massachusetts
General Laws.
SECTION 11. DEFINITIONS OF MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL, AND SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
   •   Mayor – Chief Executive Officer, enforces the laws.
   •   City Council – legislative body, 13 council members make the laws.
   •   School Committee – Makes and spends budget for public schools of Boston
(see Sections 70 – 78).
SECTION 11A. REQUIREMENT TO TAKE AN OATH.
   •   Every mayor, city councillor, and school committee member must take an:
      •   Oath of Allegiance
      •   Oath of Office
      •   Oath to Support the United States Constitution
   •   Persons qualified to give these oaths to the mayor:
      •   A justice of the Supreme Judicial Court
      •   A judge of a court of record in the city
      •   A justice of the peace
   •   Persons qualified to give these oaths to a city councillor or school
committee member:
      •   A justice of the Supreme Judicial Court
      •   A judge of a court of record in the city
      •   A justice of the peace
      •   The mayor
   •   See Appendix J.
SECTION 11B. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THE MAYOR’S OFFICE IS VACANT.
   •   When the mayor is unable to perform his duties, the president of the
city council will perform them.
   •   If the president of the city council cannot perform the duties of mayor
then the city council shall choose a member to do so.
   •   This “acting mayor” may only perform urgent tasks, cannot make permanent
appointments, and only holds office until either the city council president or
the mayor returns.
GENERAL POWERS OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION 12. HOW LONG THE MAYOR SERVES.
   •   The mayor serves for 4 years.
   •   There are no term limits for mayor.
SECTION 13. SPECIAL ELECTION FOR NEW MAYOR.
   •   A special election for mayor occurs when:
      •   The mayor’s office becomes vacant less than 16 weeks before a regular
election, EXCEPT when it is a mayoral election
      •   The mayor’s office becomes vacant less than 16 months after a regular
election
      •   There is a failure to elect a mayor
      •   The person elected mayor quits or dies before taking office
   •   The city council must immediately call for this election.
   •   This election must occur on a Tuesday between 120 and 140 days after the
city council calls for the election.
   •   If the new mayor is elected in a special election then he/she only
serves the rest of the old mayor’s term.
   •   If the mayor’s office becomes vacant at any other time then a new mayor
will be elected at the next regular election and serves a regular term.
SECTION 13A. SALARY OF THE MAYOR.
   •   The mayor’s annual salary is set by ordinance.
   •   The mayor may not receive any other money for either working as mayor or
working at any other city job.
SECTION 14. CITY COUNCILLORS.
   •   There are 9 districts in Boston with 1 councillor elected from each
district.
   •   There are 4 councillors elected by the entire city called city
councillors at-large.
   •   Every councillor holds office for 2 years.
   •   There are no term limits for city councillors.
SECTION 15. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A COUNCILLOR-AT-LARGE’S OFFICE IS VACANT.
   •   The city clerk has 21 days to tell the city council that a city
councillor-at-large’s office is vacant.
   •   The councillors then have 15 days to select a replacement.
   •   To choose a new city councillor-at-large:
      •   If the candidate with the second highest number of votes for that
seat at the last election is able and willing to take the office then the
council must offer the office to him/her
      •   If no such person exists then the city council must choose a resident
who is registered to vote in Boston
      •   If the city council does not choose in 15 days then the mayor or
acting mayor makes the choice
SECTION 15A. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A DISTRICT CITY COUNCILLOR’S OFFICE IS VACANT.
   •   If, more than 180 days before an election, a district city councillor’s
office becomes vacant then the city clerk must immediately notify the city
council.
   •   At its next meeting, the city council must then order a special election
for choosing nominees (preliminary election).
   •   This election must occur on a Tuesday between 62 and 76 days after the
meeting.
   •   The 2 candidates with the most votes in the preliminary election then
run against each other in a special election which occurs 28 days after the
preliminary election.
SECTION 15B. RULES AND EXCEPTIONS FOR SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   •   The city council calls for a special election. The mayor’s permission is
not required.
   •   All special elections must follow the rules listed in the Boston City
Charter EXCEPT:
      •   A statement of candidacy must be signed within 10 days of the city
council calling for an election to occur
      •   The election commission must wait at least 7 days after the city
council calls the election to issue a nomination petition
      •   Candidates have 15 days after the city council calls the election to
file nomination petitions with the election commission, and these must be filed
before 5 p.m.
      •   The election commission has 14 days from the end of the nomination
petition period to certify the signatures on all petitions
      •   Registered voters have 3 business days to object to any signature on
a nomination petition after it has been certified (objection period)
      •   If any candidate for district city councillor changes his/her mind
about running then he/she has until the last day of the objection period to
remove his/her name
      •   No candidate may run in place of another candidate
      •   After the nominees have been selected, anyone wishing to request a
recount of the vote has 3 days to file a petition with the election commission,
and this must be filed before 5 p.m.
SECTION 16. SALARY OF CITY COUNCILLOR.
   •   Every city councillor is paid an annual salary and receives no other
money for personal expenses from the city treasury.
   •   That salary is determined by city council ordinance.
   •   A city councillor may also work and be paid as an instructor at a city
college.
   •   A councillor may choose to receive the same salary as a city employee
instead of receiving a city councillor’s salary.
SECTION 17. ELECTING A CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   •   The city council chooses its president by majority vote.
   •   The president establishes rules for city council proceedings.
   •   The eldest council member acts as president whenever there is no
president or the president is absent.
SECTION 17A. THE MAYOR MAY SUMMON A MEETING OF CITY COUNCIL.
   •   The mayor may require the city council to meet whenever he/she thinks it
is necessary by giving notice in writing.
SECTION 17B. CITY COUNCIL’S CONTROL OVER OFFICES.
   •   With the mayor’s approval, the city council may create offices/positions
necessary for the city council to function.
   •   The council determines how much the new officer is paid from the city
treasury.
   •   Without the mayor’s approval, the city council may eliminate offices,
change the salaries of officers, and hire or fire employees for offices.
   •   The city council cannot create a clerk’s office since it uses the city
clerk as its clerk.
SECTION 17C. HOW THE CITY COUNCIL VOTES.
   •   All city council elections/votes are held by voice vote. When each
councillor’s name is called, he/she will say the name of his/her choice or
verbally decline to vote.
   •   The city clerk shall record the votes.
SECTION 17D. MAYOR’S APPROVAL OF CITY COUNCIL ACTIONS.
   •   Every action the city council takes must be approved by the mayor EXCEPT
for:
      •   Creation of special city elections
      •   Actions related solely to the city council’s internal affairs.
      •   Resolutions that do not affect legal rights
      •   Election of officials
      •   Confirmation of appointments by the mayor
   •   If the mayor approves the city council’s action then it becomes the law
as soon as the mayor signs it.
   •   If he/she does not approve it then he/she tells the city clerk in
writing why he/she does not approve it.
   •   The city clerk then returns the mayor’s reasons for disapproval to the
city council, and those reasons must be entered into council’s records.
   •   Nothing else can be done if the mayor says no to an action involving
money.
   •   The city council must look at all other returned actions again.
   •   If the issue involves a loan, expenditure, or appropriation of money
then the mayor’s objection terminates the action.
   •   For all other issues, the votes of 2/3 of the city council are necessary
to override the mayor’s objection. The city council must wait at least 7 days
after recording the mayor’s objections to take this vote.
   •   If, after 15 days, the mayor has not said yes or no to an action then
the action becomes law.
   •   The mayor must approve or object to the action as a whole, EXCEPT:
      •   If the action deals with a loan or budget then the mayor may approve
or object to any part of it
      •   In such circumstances, the mayor’s decision is final
SECTION 17E. ORDINANCES AND LOAN ORDERS.
   •   The mayor makes recommendations to the city council are in the form of
new laws (ordinances) or permission to borrow money (loan orders).
   •   The city council must consider these recommendations and adopt or reject
them within 60 days. If the council rejects then the mayor may present it to
them again.
   •   If the city council does nothing within 60 days then it will become law
unless the mayor withdraws it.
   •   The city council may:
      •   Write their own ordinances and loan orders
      •   Reduce or reject any item in a loan
      •   Change an ordinance, if the mayor approves
   •   All sales of land other than school lands, all monies budgeted for the
purchase of land, and all loans voted by the city council REQUIRE:
      •   Two separate readings
      •   Two separate votes
      •   At least 2/3 of the city council voting yes at each vote
      •   The second set of readings and votes must happen within 14 days of
the first set, EXCEPT for temporary loan votes that are taken just before taxes
are collected, where the second set must occur within 24 hours of the first set
      •   No increases in the amount of or change in the distribution of monies
are allowed at the second reading and vote
   •   3 city councillors can sign a petition to speed up the vote on a loan
order that was presented by the mayor. They must wait at least 14 days from
receiving the order before filing the petition. The council then votes on the
order at the next meeting. If a vote on the order has already occurred then the
second vote happens as described above in this section.
SECTION 17F. CITY COUNCIL’S REQUESTS FOR SPECIFIC INFORMATION.
   •   The city council may ask the mayor to either give them information on a
specific city matter or to appear and answer questions on that matter.
   •   The city council must give the mayor the questions, in writing, one week
before the meeting occurs.
   •   The mayor, a department head, or a board member will publicly answer
only questions related to the previously specified matter.
   •   The mayor can talk to the city council at any time about any subject
either in person or through a department head or board member.
SECTION 17G. CONTRACTS MADE BY CITY COUNCILLORS.
   •   Neither the city council nor any of its members may participate in the
making of any kind of any labor contract or in the spending of public money,
EXCEPT as necessary for the operation of the council.
   •   Violation of this section shall lead to imprisonment or a fine or both.
   •   The mayor and city council must approve any contract for public lighting
or garbage removal lasting longer than 1 year, after the city council holds a
hearing that they advertised for 7 days in the City Record.
   •   City and county employees, including the mayor and city councillors,
cannot receive money from contracts made with the city or county, EXCEPT:
      •   From an employment contract
      •   When the employee has the potential to receive money from a contract
and the mayor, city council, and finance commission know about this interest
and the employee does no city or county work relating to the contract
      •   When the employee owns less than 5% of the stock in a business making
the contract with the city, and the city employee is not an officer or acting
specifically on behalf of the business
   •   If an employee has a personal interest in a contract then the mayor must
assign another employee to make the contract.
   •   If the mayor has a personal interest in a contract then the city clerk
must make the contract.
   •   The city council’s powers over state or military aid and soldiers’
relief will remain the same.
   •   The city or county may void any contract that breaks these rules.
   •   Anyone breaking these rules will receive a fine of up to $1,000 or
imprisonment of up to 1 year or both.
SECTION 17H. CITY COUNCILLORS HOLDING OTHER OFFICES.
   •   While a city councillor, the only city government offices that the
person may hold are that of city councillor and other offices that arise from
being a city councillor (e.g. city council president).
   •   If the governor appoints a city councillor to a different office then
the councillor may resign and take that office.
SECTION 17I. SUMMONS AND SUBPOENA POWERS.
   •   The city council, licensing board, police commissioner, or election
commissioners can force witnesses to give them information, either in persons
or through books and papers, about subjects on which the witness has expertise.
   •   They must call and pay the witnesses the same way as a civil court calls
and pays witnesses.
   •   If witnesses do not respond then they will receive the same penalty as
in civil cases.
   •   The presiding officer at a hearing may give oaths to witnesses that
appear.
CITY DISTRICTS
SECTION 18. BOUNDARIES FOR CITY COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   •   Each district will have approximately the same number of residents,
based on the most recent state census.
   •   The city council will try not to split up existing neighborhoods when
drawing district lines.
   •   The council must redraw the districts every 10 years on or before August
1st.
   •   The city council and the school committee have the same district lines.
SECTION 19. NO WARDS.
   •   The city does not need to divide its territory into wards.
SECTION 20. CITY COUNCILLORS MUST LIVE IN THEIR DISTRICT.
   •   A district city councillor must have lived in his/her district for at
least 1 year before being elected and must live in that district during the
councillor’s entire term of office.
PROCEDURES RELATING TO ELECTIONS
SECTION 21. CITY ELECTIONS.
   •   Regular city elections occur every 2 years on the Tuesday after the 1st
Monday in November.
   •   See Appendix K.
SECTION 22. DIFFERENT KINDS OF ELECTIONS.
   •   Every at-large city officer must be nominated at a preliminary election
and then elected at a regular or special city election.
   •   Preliminary elections will occur on the 6th Tuesday before the regular
election.
SECTION 23. QUALIFICATIONS FOR CANDIDATES.
   •   A resident can only receive a nomination for office if he/she is a
registered voter who can vote for that office.
   •   Candidates for nomination must follow all stated nomination rules.
SECTION 24. STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY/SIGNING THE BOOK.
   •   In order to receive a nomination petition, a candidate must sign a
statement of candidacy in the election commission’s book.
   •   Every candidate must do this between the 23rd and 19th Tuesday before
the preliminary election by 5 p.m.
   •   See Appendix B for the statement of candidacy form.
SECTION 24A. NOMINATION PETITIONS.
   •   The election commission has 2 working days to issue the nomination
petition after receiving the statement of candidacy.
   •   1 candidate per petition, per office.
   •   A nominating candidate must list, in 8 words or less, the title and
status of each elected position they hold or have held in Massachusetts or
representing Massachusetts.
   •   See Appendix C for required nomination petition sheet format.
   •   Petitions can be no longer than:
      •   300 nomination sheets for a mayoral candidate
      •   150 sheets for a city councillor-at-large candidate
      •   20 sheets for a district councillor candidate
   •   Each sheet must include a signed statement of written acceptance by the
candidate.
SECTION 25. SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS FOR NOMINATION.
   •   The city council determines the number of signatures required for
nominations of candidates for district city councillor or school committee. The
ordinance must require at least 200 signatures and the number of signatures
required may not be more than 2% of the number of votes cast in the candidate’s
district during the last mayoral election. If 2% of that vote is less than 200
then the number of signatures required must be equal to 2% of that vote.
   •   For a mayoral candidate: 3,000 registered voters must sign the
registration petition.
   •   For a councillor-at-large candidate: 500 registered voters must sign the
registration petition.
   •   Any voter who wishes to sign a nomination petition must:
      •   Sign the petition in person, EXCEPT for physically disabled persons,
who may have another sign for him/her
      •   Sign with his/her name as registered
      •   Sign with the address he/she used on January 1st of the current year
if he/she registered to vote before the current year or with the address he/she
gave at the time of registration if he/she registered in the current year
      •   Sign with his/her current address if it differs from his/her
registered address
      •   Sign only 1 mayoral and only 1 district city council nomination
petition
      •   Sign no more than 4 city councillor-at-large nomination petitions
      •   Sign each petition only once
   •   The election commission will only count the voter’s name the first time
(or the first 4 times for city councillors-at large) it appears on any petition
for any particular office.
   •   The person who files the nomination petition must file it with the
election commission before 5 p.m. on the 18th Tuesday before the preliminary
election.
   •   Any person who files a petition must sign each sheet. If that person is
not the candidate then he/she must also include his or her address on each
sheet and provide identification to the election commission.
   •   The names of candidates are a matter of public record. However, the
public may not inspect the nomination sheets until the election commission
certifies the signatures on every petition filed for that office.
SECTION 26. COUNTING THE SIGNATURES.
   •   The election commission counts the number of registered voters’
signatures on each petition and this process is known as certification.
   •   The commission must only certify the minimum number of signatures
required, plus an extra 20%.
   •   Only certified signatures count towards the number needed for
nomination.
   •   Valid nomination petitions must have the required number of signatures.
   •   The election commission must finish certifying by 5 p.m. on the 13th
Tuesday before the preliminary election.
SECTION 26A. HOW VOTERS CAN STOP A NOMINATION PETITION.
   •   A nomination petition that seems legal is valid unless a registered
voter challenges it.
   •   To challenge the petition, a registered voter must file a written
objection with the election commission before 5 p.m. on the 12th Tuesday before
the primary election, even if the commission has already certified the
petition.
   •   The election commission must immediately send all objections to the
Boston ballot law commission.
SECTION 26B. QUITTING AND SUBSTITUTING FOR NON-MAYORAL CANDIDATES.
   •   A candidate may quit the election by filing a request with the election
commission before 5 p.m. on the 12th Tuesday prior to the preliminary election.
   •   A candidate may list a committee of 5 or fewer people on his/her
nomination petition who will choose his/her replacement if he/she cannot or
will not run.
   •   This committee must file its new candidate’s information with the
election commission by 5 p.m. on the day following the 12th Tuesday before the
preliminary election.
      FINDING A NEW CANDIDATE WHEN A CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR DIES.
   •   The due date for filing the new candidate for mayor’s information with
the election commission depends on when the candidate for mayor dies but must
always be filed before 5 p.m. on the day as follows:
      •   If death occurs on or before the 2nd Friday before the preliminary
election then filing must occur on the 1st Tuesday before the preliminary
election
      •   If death occurs after the 2nd Friday before the preliminary election
and before the closing of the polls then filing must occur on the 1st Friday
following the preliminary election
      •   If death occurs after the closing of the preliminary election polls
and on or before the 2nd Friday before the regular election then filing must
occur on the Tuesday before the regular election
      •   If death occurs after the 2nd Friday before the regular election but
before the closing of the polls then filing must occur on the 1st Friday
following the regular election
         •   If, in this case, the new candidate has a nomination committee and
it does not file his/her information by 5 p.m. on the 1st Tuesday before the
election then the election commission must postpone the mayoral election for 4
weeks.
   •   After the preliminary election has occurred, a nomination committee may
only offer substitutes for candidates still in the race.
      NAMES ON THE BALLOT.
   •   If filing of the new candidate’s information occurs before 5 p.m. on the
1st Tuesday before the preliminary election then:
      •   The preliminary election ballots will have the name, residence, and
ward of the new candidate
      •   The voting machine ballot labels will also have the new candidate’s
information
   •   If filing of the new candidate’s information occurs between 5 p.m. on
the 1st Tuesday before the preliminary election and the closing of the polls at
the preliminary election then:
      •   The former candidate’s information will appear on the ballot, but any
vote for that candidate will count as a vote for the new candidate
   •   If filing of the new candidate’s information occurs before 5 p.m. on the
1st Tuesday before the regular election then:
      •   The election commission will place the new candidate’s information on
regular ballots
      •   On absentee ballots, the election commission will try to ensure that
the new candidate’s information is entered but, failing this, a vote for the
old candidate will count as a vote for the new candidate
      •   The voting machine ballot labels will also have the new candidate’s
information
      REQUIREMENTS FOR THE FILING OF ALL SUBSTITUTE CANDIDATES.
   •   The nomination committee must provide:
      •   New candidate’s name
      •   New candidate’s street address and district or ward
      •   Office the new candidate seeks
      •   Old candidate’s name
      •   Reasons why the old candidate is no longer running
      •   How the nomination committee chose the new candidate
      •   Oaths and signatures about the truth of the information it is
submitting from the chairman and secretary of the nomination committee
      •   New candidate’s written acceptance of his or her nomination
SECTION 26C. INFORMING VOTERS ABOUT THE CANDIDATES.
   •   On the 1st working day after the election commission has finalized the
nominations, it must post the names, residences, and districts of the
candidates for mayor and city councillor in city hall.
   •   The election commission must group these names by district number.
   •   In a public building in each district the election commission must post
the information related to elections in that district.
   •   The election commission will not hold preliminary elections if there are
2 or fewer candidates running for either mayor or district city councillor or 8
or fewer candidates for city-councillor-at-large.
SECTION 27. PRINTING OF THE PRELIMINARY (I.E. PRIMARY) BALLOTS.
   •   The election commission must select the position of candidates on the
ballot at random, by a drawing of names, to select the position of the
candidates on the ballot on the day of public posting of the names or very soon
afterwards.
   •   The election commission must print the ballots as soon as possible after
the posting of the names.
   •   These official preliminary election ballots must contain:
      •   The names of the nominees
      •   The addresses of the nominees
      •   The office that each nominee seeks
      •   A statement regarding the elected public offices the nominee
currently holds or has held
      •   An official heading (See Appendix D)
SECTION 28. DESCRIPTION OF BALLOT AND BALLOT POSITION DRAWING.
   •   In every election, each voter may vote for only 1 mayoral candidate,
only 1 district city councillor, and up to 4 city councillors-at-large.
   •   The ballot must instruct voters about this restriction.
   •   Each candidate, in person or through a representative, may be present
when the election commission randomly selects the names for positioning on the
ballot.
   •   Before randomly selecting the positions, the election commission places
each candidate’s information on a card and reads that card out loud before
putting all cards in alphabetical order.
   •   The election commission randomly picks cards that determine the
positions on the ballot, first for mayor then for city councillor.
   •   The mayoral cards have the candidate’s name and address.
   •   The city councillor cards have the candidate’s name and district number.
SECTION 29. COUNTING THE PRELIMINARY BALLOTS.
   •   When the polls close, the election officers count the ballots and return
them to the election commission and they report the number of votes.
   •   The election commission determines the winners and puts the results in
newspapers and posts notice at city hall.
SECTION 30. WHO WINS A PRELIMINARY (I.E. PRIMARY) ELECTION.
   •   The 2 people who receive the highest number of votes in mayoral and
district city councillor elections win a place on the regular election ballot.
   •   The 8 people who receive the highest number of votes in city councillor-
at-large elections win a place on the regular election ballot.
   •   If, because of a tie, there are a greater number of candidates who
should win a place on the regular election ballot than the rules would allow
then all such candidates win a place on the ballot for the regular election
(e.g. if there is a tie between second and third place in a mayoral preliminary
election then both the second and third-place candidates would win a spot on
the regular election ballot).
SECTION 31. PRINTING OF NAMES ON GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT.
   •   Shortly after the 6th Tuesday before the regular election, the election
commission determines the position of each candidate on the regular election
ballot by holding a random drawing for which the candidate or a representative
may be present.
   •   These official regular election ballots contain:
      •   The names of the nominees
      •   The addresses of the nominees and their districts
      •   The office and the term of the office that the nominee seeks
      •   A statement regarding the elective public offices the nominee holds
or has held
SECTION 32. NO REFERENCES TO POLITICAL PARTIES ON BALLOTS.
   •   Ballots may not contain references to candidates’ political views or
affiliations.
SECTION 33. WRITE-IN VOTES.
   •   Ballots for mayor and district city councillor must have 1 blank space
and ballots for city councillor-at-large must have 4 blank spaces so that
voters may write in the names of anyone they wish.
ORGANIZATION OF CITY DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 34. CHANGING DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
   •   The city council with the approval of the mayor may:
      •   Create new departments or agencies
      •   Eliminate all or part of any department or agency
      •   Reorganize all or a part of any department or agency
      •   Increase any department or agency’s duties or powers
      •   Move the powers, duties, and funding within a department or agency
      •   Move duties, powers, and funds between departments or agencies
      •   Change, create, or eliminate the salary of any department or agency
head
   •   The mayor, without city council’s approval, must appoint the head of any
department or agency created in this way.
   •   The term of any such department or agency head ends:
      •   On the 1st Monday of January after the next regularly scheduled
mayoral election that follows the appointment
      •   According to the rules of the particular board they serve on if:
         •   They are unpaid
         •   They serve on a board of appeals
         •   They serve on a board of examiners
         •   If the city council eliminates a position under this section then
the person who worked in that position shall be given another job in a similar
office or of a similar status. That person does not have to retake the civil
service exam, and he/she retains any pension benefits previously accrued.
   •   This section does not apply to:
      •   The school committee
      •   The board of commissioners of school buildings
      •   The superintendent of construction
      •   The board of trustees of the teachers’ retirement fund
      •   The board of trustees of the permanent school pension fund
      •   The Boston retirement board
      •   The city clerk
      •   The board of election commissioners
      •   The Boston traffic commission
      •   Any board member or officer appointed by the governor
SECTION 35. APPOINTMENTS BY THE MAYOR.
   •   Except for the school committee and officers the governor appoints, the
mayor appoints all heads of departments and members of city boards without
approval from the city council.
   •   Appointees must be recognized experts in or have special training for
the work they will perform in committees, except for election commissioners.
   •   The mayor may not consider political party or residence when making
appointments.
SECTION 36. MAKING SURE THAT MAYORAL APPOINTMENTS ARE QUALIFIED.
   •   The mayor must sign and file a certificate with the city clerk when
appointing heads of departments. (See Appendix E for certificate form)
   •   The city clerk then gives the certification to the civil service
commission who then makes sure that the nominee has the skills required for the
job.
   •   If he/she does have the required qualifications then a majority of the
commission signs a certificate and files it with the city clerk. If civil
service commission does nothing within 30 days then the nominee shall be
considered unqualified.
   •   If and when the nominee accepts the office, takes all necessary oaths,
and files a bond then the appointment is complete.
SECTION 37. EXPENSES OF THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   •   The governor and city council must approve a reasonable budget for the
civil service commission.
   •   Massachusetts gives the commission this money and may ask Boston to
repay this money.
SECTION 38. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A DEPARTMENT HEAD’S OFFICE IS VACANT.
   •   Until the mayor can appoint a permanent replacement, he/she must
temporarily fill any vacant department head position with the head of another
department or a member of a board.
SECTION 39. HOW LONG MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS SERVE.
   •   Members of boards keep their jobs for as long as the law allows.
   •   Heads of departments keep their jobs for 4 years beginning May 1st of
their appointment year but may work for longer if the mayor wishes.
SECTION 40. REMOVING HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS.
   •   The mayor can remove any head of a department or member of a board by
filing a written statement of reasons for removal with the city clerk.
   •   The person removed receives a copy of the mayor’s statement and may file
a reply, which shall not affect the removal.
   •   This section does not apply to:
      •   Election commissioners
      •   The school committee
      •   The public facilities commission
      •   Any official appointed by the governor
SECTION 41. EXCEPTIONS TO CIVIL SERVICE LAWS.
   •   The mayor may remove his secretaries, stenographers, clerks, telephone
operators, and messengers without a hearing or statement of cause.
SECTION 42. OFFICIALS MAY NOT SPEND MORE MONEY THAN IS ALLOCATED.
   •   Boston officials may not spend more money or make a contract to spend
more money than they are given to spend in any fiscal year, except in cases of
extreme emergency.
   •   If an official intentionally spends too much money then the city shall
attempt to recover the extra money spent and the official must pay any amount
that the city cannot recover.
   •   The city may bring these claims to court.
   •   Anyone breaking these rules will be fined $1,000 or less or imprisoned
for a term of 1 year or less or both.
SECTION 42A. RENEWING CONTRACTS PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF THE BUDGET.
   •   City and county officers that are allowed to spend money, as well as the
school committee, may renew or enter into contracts that they do not currently
have money for.
   •   These contracts:
      •   May last for no more than the first 3 months of the new fiscal year
      •   Must have the same or better terms as the prior contract or a similar
contract
      •   Must not spend more than the average of the last 9 months of similar
contracts
THE FINANCE COMMISSION
SECTION 43. CREATION OF A FINANCE COMMISSION.
   •   The governor appoints the finance commission with the advice and consent
of the [governor’s] council.
   •   The commission consists of 5 qualified voters of Boston who have lived
in the city for at least 3 years prior to their appointment.
   •   Each commission member serves for a term of 5 years, but the governor
may remove a member at any time with consent of the governor’s council.
   •   The governor chooses the chairman of the commission, to whom the city
shall pay a salary. The other members of the commission shall serve without
pay.
SECTION 44. INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS.
   •   The finance commission must investigate financial matters regarding
Boston or Suffolk county when the commission sees fit and report its
investigative findings regarding Boston or Suffolk county’s financial matters
to the mayor, city council, governor, or state legislature.
   •   The commission must present an annual report to the state legislature
each January.
SECTION 45. COMMENCING AN INVESTIGATION.
   •   If the mayor, city auditor, or city treasurer receives a request for
money that he/she thinks is false then he/she must tell the finance commission
not to pay it.
   •   The commission then investigates and reports its investigative findings.
SECTION 46. COMMISSION FUNDING.
   •   The city must appropriate to the commission no less than the amount of
the salary of the chairman plus a minimum of $25,000 for all expenses.
   •   The commission may spend money before it has been given to them.
SECTION 47. POWERS OF THE FINANCE COMMISSION.
   •   Chapter 562 of the Acts of 1908 lists the powers of the finance
commission: (i) to investigate all matters pertaining to the finances of the
said city, (ii) to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of all material books, papers, contracts, and documents, (iii) to
administer oaths (the chairman), (iv) to apply to a justice of the supreme
judicial court or of the superior court for an order requiring a person to
appear (any failure to obey such order of the court is punishable as contempt,
(v) for refusal to comply with orders, the commission may impose a fine not
exceeding fifty dollars or imprisonment for not more than thirty days or both.
   •   Chapter 562 of the Acts of 1908 lists the powers of the finance
commission, EXCEPT:
      •   Counsel for any witness at any public hearing may ask him any
relevant question and may offer relevant evidence through other witnesses
subject to cross-examination by the commission and its counsel.
PUBLIC SPENDING
SECTION 48. CREATION AND APPROVAL OF THE MUNICIPAL BUDGET.
   •   The mayor’s office disburses all money for the operations of the city
EXCEPT money for schools and money from loans. The mayor can disburse this
money at any time.
   •   City and county officials, when asked, must tell the mayor how much they
think their department will spend in the next fiscal year. The city council
then receives these estimates.
   •   The city council may reduce or reject an item in the budget, but it may
not create or increase items in the budget.
   •   The city council MUST:
      •   Vote on any new funding order within 60 days after the mayor’s office
files it -- if they do nothing then the order is approved
      •   Vote on the annual budget by the 2nd Wednesday in June -- if they do
nothing then the budget is approved.
   •   The budget must give the mayor and city council at least as much money
as each received in the prior year.
SECTION 49. SPENDING MONEY BEFORE THE NEW BUDGET IS PASSED.
   •   If there is a delay in the budget process and city departments have not
yet been given any money for the new fiscal year then any city official allowed
to spend money may continue to spend money EXCEPT:
      •   No city official may spend more in 1 month than the monthly average
of the past 3 months
      •   No city official may spend more money per month on a specific type of
item or service than was spent on the same item or service in any month during
the previous fiscal year
      •   When funding a new board or office, no city official may spend more
than 1 /12 of the amount of money he/she thinks it would take to run that board
or office in the current fiscal year
      •   No city official may spend more on snow removal than the average
amount spent on snow removal over the last 5 years
   •   First assistant assessors may continue to be paid from the treasury for
their regular duties. This money will be taken out of the next fiscal year’s
funding.
SECTION 50. MOVING MONEY.
   •   The mayor and 2/3 of the city council must approve any transfer of funds
from one department to another.
   •   With approval from the mayor, the city auditor may move money around
within a department, as long as it is not for the auditor’s personal services.
   •   In order to close out accounts at the end of the fiscal year, the city
auditor may, with the mayor’s approval, spend or move any leftover money.
   •   The city auditor must report any money he/she has moved around, as well
as why he/she made each move, to the city council and the city clerk within 70
days of the end of the fiscal year.
SECTION 51. ACCEPTANCE, RECEIPT, AND EXPENDITURE OF GRANTS/GIFTS.
   •   The city of Boston may accept grants or gifts of funds.
   •   In the case of any grant or gift given for educational purposes, the
city of Boston may spend those funds for the intended purposes of such grant or
gift with the approval of the school committee, and in the case of any other
grant or gift, may spend such funds for the purposes of such grant or gift with
the approval of the mayor and city council.
   •   Amounts so received shall be deposited with the treasurer and held in a
separate account and may be spent by the officer or department receiving the
grant or gift without further appropriation.
THE CITY CLERK AND THE CITY AUDITOR
SECTION 52. HOW LONG THE CITY CLERK SERVES.
   •   After a majority of the city council elects the city clerk, he/she
serves for 3 years.
   •   The city clerk works until the 1st Monday in February of the 3rd year of
the appointment or longer if the council has not chosen a replacement.
SECTION 53. DUTIES OF CITY AUDITOR.
   •   The city auditor oversees all of Boston’s accounts and all of Suffolk
County’s accounts.
   •   If anyone claims that the city or county owes him/her money then the
auditor may require him/her to take an oath that the claim is truthful.
   •   The auditor may refuse to pay any claim believed to be unlawful but must
file a written statement explaining the reasons for refusal.
SECTION 54. UNSPENT BALANCES.
   •   The city auditor gives the head of each department a monthly statement
of how much money the department was given but has not spent.
   •   The auditor gives the same statement to the mayor and city council.
   •   The auditor gives the city council a statement every 3 months showing
money that the mayor or city council spent on contingent expenses.
SECTION 55. DOUBLE-CHECKING THE CITY’S FINANCE BY AN AUDIT COMMITTEE.
   •   The mayor appoints and the city council confirms a 5-member audit
committee.
   •   The city shall hire an independent, certified public accounting firm to
audit the city once a year.
   •   Audit committee members:
      •   Are residents of Boston
      •   Are unpaid
      •   Classify as special city employees
      •   Serve for 5 years
   •   The audit committee:
      •   Monitors the outside accounting firm’s work
      •   Meets with the outside accounting firm at least 4 times a year
      •   Reviews the recommendations of the outside accounting firm
      •   Makes its own recommendations to the mayor and the city council
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION 56. EMERGENCY (RESERVE) FUND.
   •   The city must annually set up a fund that is at least 2.5% of the
previous year’s budget (not counting the school department’s budget) minus any
money left over in the previous year’s reserve fund.
   •   After the city council receives and approves a written request and
explanation, the mayor can take money out of the reserve fund during the last
month of the fiscal year.
   •   If there is no money in the reserve fund and the city spends more money
than it has been appropriated in a given year then 50% more money (not counting
the school department’s budget) shall be put into the reserve fund for the next
year.
   •   Within 10 days of the approval of the school department’s budget, the
department must create a reserve fund of at least 1% of its current budget.
   •   With the mayor and city council’s approval, money can be removed from
this fund after May 1st of that fiscal year.
   •   If there is no money in the reserve fund and the school department
spends more money than it has available in a year then 50% more money shall be
put into the reserve fund the next year.
SECTION 57. EMPLOYEE SPENDING AND MOVING MONEY.
   •   Before the later of August 1st or within 10 days of the city budget’s
approval, each department head must give the department’s budget for personnel
(employees) to the city auditor.
   •   The school department may not spend more than 20% of its budget for
personnel in the first two quarters of the fiscal year and it may not spend
more than 30% in each of the remaining two quarters.
   •   All other departments may not spend more than 30% of the employee budget
in the first two quarters of the fiscal year and may not spend less than 21%
during the last two quarters.
   •   Whenever the city auditor finds that any department has no more
personnel funds to spend in a quarter, he/she must notify the head of that
department, the mayor, and the city council in writing.
   •   Whenever the city auditor makes this notification:
      •   The mayor must, within 7 days, decide whether or not to stop the
department from spending any more funds on personnel for that quarter
      •   If the department has run out of money and the mayor orders a stop to
further personnel spending then the city does not have to pay back any money
the department spends in excess of the amount it has budgeted for that quarter
      •   If the mayor does not stop employee spending then the department may
continue current employee spending by taking money saved for future quarters
and reducing the budget for those quarters by the amount taken; however, the
department must get the mayor’s approval for all such spending EXCEPT for
spending needed to make prior wage corrections
      •   The department and mayor must report all such actions to the city
council within 7 days
   •   All collective bargaining agreements entered into by the city must have
this section incorporated into them.
   •   The mayor cannot transfer more than $3 million of non-personnel funds
from one place within a department to another EXCEPT for the school department.
   •   Unless 2/3 of the city council approves, the mayor may not take money
for employee spending and give it to non employee projects in a department if
this movement would result in the firing of permanent appointees.
   •   No reallocation under this section may be made after April 15th.
   •   The city auditor will explain all movements of money and the reasons for
those movements to the city council by April 30th every year.
SECTION 58. GUARANTEES FOR THE HOSPITALIZATION AND INSURANCE ACCOUNT.
   •   The hospitalization and insurance account must be given at least as much
money as was actually spent on it, on average, over the last 3 years.
   •   At least 10 working days before the proposed tax rate is submitted for
approval, the city auditor notifies the board of assessors that there is enough
money to pay insurance and healthcare benefits in collective bargaining
agreements entered into by the City.
PUBLIC FACILITIES COMMISSION AND SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION 59. ACQUIRING/TAKING LAND FOR MUNICIPAL PURPOSES.
   •   The Public Facilities Commission may purchase any interest in land
within the city or may take, by eminent domain, any interest in land within the
city, EXCEPT for parks, playgrounds, and land belonging to:
      •   The United States of America
      •   The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
      •   The Boston Housing Authority
      •   The Boston Redevelopment Authority
   •   If the purchase price of the land is more than 25% higher than its
average assessed value over the past 3 years then the city must take the land
by eminent domain.
   •   No land may be taken until money for the project that will be undertaken
on the land has been appropriated by the mayor and 2/3 of the city council.
   •   None of this affects the real property board or the public improvement
commission.
SECTION 60. CHANGING THE USE OF LAND.
   •   The public facilities commission may change the use and management of
city lands with the permission of the mayor. This provision specifically
applies to school land. This provision does not apply to parks and playgrounds.
SECTION 61. LEASING OR SELLING SURPLUS LAND (EXCEPT PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS).
   •   With the mayor’s consent, the public facilities commission may lease or
sell any surplus land to the federal government (including any agency thereof)
or the state government (including any authority or political subdivision).
   •   With the mayor’s permission, the public facilities commission may lease
or sell any surplus land to a private party if the commission publishes notice
in the City Record once a week for 2 weeks.
SECTION 62. MONEY FROM THE SALE OF LAND.
   •   When the city sells a piece of land (except land acquired through tax
title foreclosures) the money is spent as follows:
      •   The amount of money that the city has spent to either buy or improve
the property goes to the Surplus Property Disposition Fund and, from there, may
only be spent on projects for which the city has permission to go into debt for
ten years or more
      •   Any proceeds remaining after that go to the capital fund, or, if a
majority of the city council and the mayor approve, to the general fund
SECTION 63. OFF-STREET PARKING STRUCTURES AS EXTRA PROPERTY.
   •   The Public Facilities Commission may sell off-street parking structures,
as surplus discussed above, if a majority of the city council votes to give the
structures to the Commission.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 64. LOANS MADE BY THE CITY OF BOSTON.
   •   All loans Boston issues must be repaid in annual payments according to
the laws of Massachusetts.
   •   Any party paying back a loan to Boston cannot solely pay the interest
during the loan term and repay the entire principal at the end of the loan
term.
   •   When Boston issues bonds to raise money, it may only issue the amount in
bonds up to the amount of funds that the city needs to raise.
   •   If a bank or trust company has an officer, director, or agent who is
also a member of the sinking fund commissions board then that bank or trust may
not receive any city or county money.
SECTION 65. LIST OF DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   •   Between February 1st and February 6th each year, every department head
must give the city auditor a list of its current employees.
   •   The list has must include each employee’s:
      •   Name
      •   Street and ward
      •   Title
      •   Salary
      •   Date of hiring and start date
   •   The auditor, after receiving the list, must:
      •   Match the list with pay rolls
      •   Open the list up for public inspection
      •   Publish in the City Record, by April 10th, a table comparing the
number of employees in each department for the past 10 years
SECTION 66. POWERS OF THE BOARD OF STREET COMMISSIONERS.
   •   The board of street commissioners, with the mayor’s approval, may:
      •   Name the streets
      •   Plant and remove trees in public places
      •   Issue permits or licenses for:
         •   Coasting
         •   Storing gas, oil, flammable substances, or explosive compounds
         •   Use of public ways for obstruction or projection for conduits,
poles, and posts
   •   The mayor and city council shall determine the prices for these permits
and licenses.
SECTION 67. CONTENTS AND PUBLICATION OF THE CITY RECORD.
   •   The mayor’s office must distribute the City Record at least once per
week on terms fixed by the mayor and the city council.
   •   The City Record has notices for:
      •   Sales of property because of non-payment of taxes
      •   Public purchases and takings of land
      •   Contracts for work, materials, or supplies
      •   Sales of municipal bonds
      •   A list of all contracts that the city has awarded, worth more than
$1,000, with the names of bidders and amounts of bids
      •   Appointments by the mayor
      •   Changes in number and salary of employees in each department
      •   Proceedings of the city council and the school committee with
communications from the mayor (N.B. this section prohibits the publication of
the substance of debates by and among the City Council if such publication is
at the expense of the City of Boston)
   •   Failure to obey the mayor’s order of publication does not cancel any
purchase, contract, or sale made by the city.
SECTION 68. MAKING CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND PUBLISHING PROPOSALS.
   •   When a city employee is authorized to build a new building, or make
structural changes to an existing building with city funds, he/she cannot make
more than 5 contracts and the mayor must agree to each contract before that
contract can take effect.
   •   When the work costs more than $10,000, unless the mayor says otherwise
in writing, the City Record shall publish requests for proposals, and such
requests for proposals shall state the time and place for looking at the
proposals and explain that an officer or board can reject any proposal.
   •   If the mayor says that the City Record does not need to ask for
proposals then the City Record must publish an explanation from the department
head as to why not.
SECTION 69. REQUIREMENTS OF CONTRACTS (SURETIES).
   •   All contracts made for Boston or the county of Suffolk that are for more
than $10,000 and will be paid entirely from the city treasury must be in
writing.
   •   All such contracts need:
      •   Approval of the mayor
      •   Auditor certification that there is enough money to pay for the
contract
      •   Bond or deposit left with the city auditor
   •   No contract may change unless there is written agreement, with mayoral
approval, between:
      •   The contractor
      •   The people who promise to pay for the contractor if he/she cannot pay
      •   The officer, board, or official making the contract
THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE AND SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION 70. CREATING A SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
   •   The mayor appoints the 7-member school committee of Boston residents and
should strive to appoint a committee that represents the ethnic, racial, and
socioeconomic diversity of the public school population.
SECTION 71. SCHOOL COMMITTEE TERMS AND ELECTION OF PRESIDENT.
   •   School committee members serve for 4 years, starting on the 1st Monday
in January, unless the nominating panel re nominates any members and the mayor
grants the member(s) another term.
   •   The school committee elects its president at the 1st meeting of the
year.
SECTION 72. APPOINTING A SUPERINTENDENT AND DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   •   A majority of the school committee elects and hires a resident of the
city to serve as superintendent for 6 years or less and they may remove him/her
by 3/5 vote after finding good cause for removal, giving proper notice, and
holding a public hearing.
   •   The school committee decides the superintendent’s salary.
   •   The superintendent enforces and enacts all school committee decisions
and must give a recommendation before the school committee can act.
   •   The superintendent’s recommendation must include an estimate of how much
more or less a project will cost when compared to similar projects and its
source of funding.
   •   The superintendent can present his recommendation:
      •   At a meeting where the school committee raises an issue needing his
recommendation
      •   At the next regularly-scheduled school committee meeting
   •   If the superintendent fails to make a recommendation in the required
time period then the school committee can act without a recommendation from the
superintendent.
   •   Soon after his or her appointment or re-appointment, the superintendent
must give the school committee a plan for enacting and enforcing the school
committee’s decisions.
   •   The school committee has until September 1st to accept the
superintendent’s plan by a 2/3 vote.
SECTION 73. SUPERINTENDENT’S AUTHORITY TO HIRE, FIRE, AND PROMOTE.
   •   Anyone paid from the school department’s budget for providing service to
the school department is considered a school department employee for this
section.
   •   Only the superintendent may hire and promote school department employees
EXCEPT for:
      •   The community superintendent
      •   School committee chairman
      •   School committee secretary
      •   School committee treasurer
      •   School committee administrative assistants
      •   Special assistant corporation counsel
   •   When hiring or promoting a community superintendent:
      •   The superintendent must give a recommendation for the position to the
school committee at a regularly scheduled meeting
      •   The appointment is deemed to be approved unless the majority of the
school committee votes to object within 5 working days and then the appointment
can only be approved if a majority of school committee members vote to overcome
the objection
      •   If the committee does not object then the community superintendent
action is automatically approved on the 6th working day after the meeting
   •   The superintendent decides how much school department employees are paid
EXCEPT for members of the school committee or as otherwise directed by a
collective bargaining agreement. When making this decision, the superintendent
must follow the terms of collective bargaining agreements entered into by the
city and he or she must follow the laws of Massachusetts.
   •   The school committee decides how much its administrative assistants are
paid.
   •   The superintendent may suspend, lay-off, demote, remove, or dismiss any
school department employee except for school committee members and their
administrative assistants.
   •   When the superintendent is taking one of the actions described above,
these actions shall be considered actions of the school committee and he/she
shall have both the powers and obligations/limitations of the school committee.
   •   In taking one of the employment actions listed above, the superintendent
must provide notice and a hearing if one would otherwise be required.
   •   This section shall not affect the rights of teachers under M.G.L. c. 71,
ss. 42, 43a, and 43b.
SECTION 74. BUDGET AND CONTRACTS.
   •   The school committee may allow the superintendent to accept and spend
gifts of money for the school department.
   •   Every 3 months the superintendent tells the school committee, city
auditor, and city office of budget and program evaluation where the money came
from, where it needs to be spent, and how much money is left.
   •   The superintendent may not hire anyone for which there is not the money
to hire.
   •   Every year the superintendent gives the school department’s budget to
the school committee before the 1st Wednesday in February.
   •   The school committee may make changes or final decisions (it may adopt,
reject, reduce, or increase any item) on any item in the budget, but if it
fails to vote yes or no on the entire budget before the 4th Wednesday in March
then the budget is automatically approved.
   •   After the mayor gets the budget and accepts or reduces the total amount
by the 2nd Wednesday in May, he/she must then submit that budget to the city
council to set aside the necessary funds.
   •   Only the superintendent has the power to make contracts for the school
committee, except for collective bargaining agreements and contracts for the
transportation of students, and to make sure that all contracts made are
followed.
SECTION 75. GETTING AND SPENDING SCHOOL DEPARTMENT MONEY.
   •   The city shall give the public schools enough money to operate but is
not required to give more than is allocated to the public schools.
   •   Only the school committee decides where the money in the budget goes,
but the city auditor may restrict the movement of school money if he/she thinks
the committee will spend more money on a specific purpose than they are given
for that purpose.
   •   If the school committee wishes to start a program it does not currently
have money for after the 4th Wednesday in March then it must amend the current
budget by taking enough money to pay for the new program away from other
programs unless there is enough money for the new program in the next year’s
budget.
   •   The superintendent must give a monthly report to the school committee,
the city auditor, and the city office of budget and program evaluation on how
much money the school department has spent so far and how much it plans to
spend in the future.
   •   The superintendent may make contracts for buying books for the next
fiscal year after the 4th Wednesday in March as long as the amount of those
contracts is not more than the amount of the last fiscal year’s book contracts
and as long as he/she asks for enough money to cover the new contracts in the
next fiscal year’s budget.
SECTION 76. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
   •   Members of the school committee do not have authority to hire personal
staff but the school committee president can hire a paid administrative
assistant.
SECTION 77. NOMINATING PANEL.
   •   The city has a 13-person panel that nominates candidates for the school
committee.
   •   The panel must consist of:
      •   4 parents of children in Boston public schools:
         •   1 selected by the citywide parents council
         •   1 selected by the citywide educational coalition
         •   1 selected by the Boston special needs parent advisory council
         •   1 selected by the bilingual education citywide parent advisory
council
      •   1 teacher from the Boston public school system who is a member of and
selected by the teacher’s union
      •   1 headmaster or principal in the Boston public school system who is a
member of and selected by the Boston association of school administrators and
supervisors
      •   1 president of a public or private college or university selected by
the Massachusetts chancellor of higher education
      •   The Massachusetts commissioner of education
      •   4 people appointed by the mayor
      •   1 seat, filled by 1 of the following three 3 people, each serving for
1 year, in a fixed 3 year rotation:
         •   1 person who is a member of and selected by the private industry
council
         •   1 person who is a member of and selected by the Boston municipal
research bureau
         •   1 person who is a member of and selected by the Boston chamber of
commerce
   •   Members are appointed before September 30th and each serves for 2 years.
   •   If a member cannot complete a term then whomever selected that member
selects the replacement.
SECTION 78. CHOOSING NOMINEES FOR THE SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
   •   Each year the panel selects a chairman who gives a list of the members
of the panel to the city clerk.
   •   The panel meets in public on the 1st Wednesday in October to select 3 to
5 nominees for each school committee member office that will become vacant on
the 1st day of the next year.
   •   The panel must give this list to the mayor by the 1st Monday in
December. If the panel does not present this list then the mayor may appoint
anyone he/she wishes to the school committee.
   •   If an unexpected vacancy occurs in the school committee then the panel
meets within 10 days of notice of the vacancy and gives a list of 3 to 5
nominees to the mayor within 30 days of the meeting. If they do not give the
mayor a list then he/she may appoint anyone he/she chooses.
   •   The mayor must select a replacement within 15 days of getting this list.
APPENDIX J
OATH OF MAYOR/CITY COUNCILLOR
I, <NAME OF MAYOR/COUNCILLOR>, do solemnly swear, that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and will support the
Constitution thereof, so help me God.
I, <NAME OF MAYOR/COUNCILLOR>, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and
impartially discharge and perform all the duties incumbent on me as <a member
of the City Council // or // Mayor> of the City of Boston, according to the
best of my abilities and understanding, agreeably to the rules and regulations
of the Constitution and the laws of the Commonwealth, so help me God.
I, <NAME OF MAYOR/COUNCILLOR>, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States, so help me God.
APPENDIX K
CALENDAR FOR ELECTION CYCLE
First hour and day for filing a         9:00 a.m. on the day following the 23rd
statement of candidacy/making           Tuesday preceding the preliminary
application for a nomination petition   election.
with the Boston Election Commission at   
the Boston Election Department.
First hour and day for issuance of a
nomination petition by the Boston       9:00 a.m. on the 21st Tuesday preceding
Election Commission at the Boston       the preliminary election.
Election Department.
Last hour and day for filing a
statement of candidacy/making           5:00 p.m. on the 19th Tuesday preceding
application for a nomination petition   the preliminary election.
with the Boston Election Commission at
the Boston Election Department.
Last hour and day for issuance of a
nomination petition by the Boston       5:00 p.m. on the 19th Tuesday preceding
Election Commission at the Boston       the preliminary election.
Election Department.
Last hour and day for filing the
nomination petition with the Boston     5:00 p.m. on the 18th Tuesday preceding
Election Commission at the Boston       the preliminary election.
Election Department.
Last hour and day for the Boston
Election Commission to complete its     5:00 p.m. on the 13th Tuesday preceding
certification of signatures on the      the preliminary election.
nomination papers.
Last hour and day for filing a
withdrawal from nomination and/or an
objection to the validity of a          5:00 p.m. on the 12th Tuesday preceding
nomination petition with the Boston     the preliminary election.
Election Commission at the Boston
Election Department.
Last hour and day for filing a          5:00 p.m. on the day following the 12th
certificate of substitution with the    Tuesday preceding the preliminary
Boston Election Commission at the       election.
Boston Election Department.
Day of the preliminary municipal        The 6th Tuesday preceding the biennial
election.                               municipal election.
Day of the biennial municipal election. The first Tuesday after the first
                                        Monday in November.
 
[See Sections 21, 22, 23, 24, 24A, 25, 26, 26A, 26B of the Boston City Charter]
TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
Selected Acts and Resolves of Massachusetts Affecting the City of Boston
Acts of 1822, c. 110 Acts of 1955, c. 60
Acts of 1854, c. 448 Acts of 1956, c. 665
Acts of 1890, c. 418 Acts of 1957, c. 150
Acts of 1906, c. 231 Acts of 1966, c. 642
Acts of 1908, c. 562 Acts of 1970, c. 583
Acts of 1909, c. 486 Acts of 1972, c. 150
Acts of 1914, c. 730 Acts of 1974, c. 276
Acts of 1919, c. 222 Acts of 1976, c. 78
Acts of 1919, c. 269 Acts of 1982, c. 190
Acts of 1921, c. 288 Acts of 1982, c. 605
Acts of 1924, c. 479 Acts of 1983, c. 342
Acts of 1934, c. 185 Acts of 1983, c. 643
Acts of 1934, c. 227 Acts of 1986, c. 343
Acts of 1936, c. 152 Acts of 1986, c. 701
Acts of 1936, c. 224 Acts of 1987, c. 613
Acts of 1938, c. 263 Acts of 1989, c. 596
Acts of 1939, c. 156 Acts of 1991, c. 108
Acts of 1941, c. 604 Acts of 1992, c. 272
Acts of 1947, c. 120 Acts of 1992, c. 373
Acts of 1947, c. 447 Acts of 1993, c. 233
Acts of 1948, c. 452 Acts of 1993, c. 341
Acts of 1949, c. 222 Acts of 1995, c. 147
Acts of 1951, c. 111 Acts of 1996, c. 328
Acts of 1951, c. 182 Acts of 1998, c. 262
Acts of 1951, c. 376 Acts of 2001, c. 170
Acts of 1952, c. 190 Acts of 2004, c. 476
Acts of 1953, c. 473 Acts of 2006, c. 111
Acts of 1954, c. 24
 
City of Boston Code  Massachusetts General Laws
CBC 2-7.11           M.G.L. c. 39
CBC 2-8.1            M.G.L. c. 44, s.53A
CBC 2-9.1/CBC 2-9.2  M.G.L. c. 59, s. 21C (Prop 2½)
 
N.B. Numerous other General Laws, Special Laws, and Ordinances affect the
powers and duties of the City of Boston. This publication has been limited to
the Form of Government and the broadest and most fundamental operations of the
government of the City of Boston.
 
CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
1-1   DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
1-2   CITY SEAL AND CITY FLAG
   
1-2.1   City Seal
   
1-2.2   Municipal Standard and City Flag
   
1-2.3   City Colors
   
1-2.4   Displaying Flag on City Hall and Boston Common
   
1-2.5   Further Uses of Flag
   
1-2.6   Prohibitions on Use of Flag
   
1-2.7   Penalties
   
1-2.8   Custodian
1-3   DISPLAY OF UNITED STATES FLAG
1-3A   DISPLAY OF FLAGS ON CITY HALL PROPERTY
   
1-3A.1   Policy
   
1-3A.2   Order of Precedence
   
1-3A.3   Special Occasions of Federal, Commonwealth and Local Proclamation
   
1-3A.4   Other Flags
1-4   CITY AUTOMOBILES
1-5   CONTROL OF ROOMS IN CITY HALL
1-6   PROHIBITING ADVERTISING OF NAME OF ELECTED OFFICIAL ON CITY PUBLICATIONS
1-7   PROHIBITING USE OF WORD MAYOR IN TITLES OF PERSONS NOT SO DESIGNATED BY
STATUTE
   
1-7.1   Use of Title “Mayor”
1-1   DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules of construction shall be observed for this and every
other ordinance, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Boston
City Council or the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive an ordinance in force
before, or at the time when, the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for a violation of such ordinance.
   (C)   Words importing the singular shall include the plural, words importing
the plural shall include the singular and words importing the masculine gender
shall include women and Boards.
   (D)   The word STREET shall mean and include all public ways, alleys, lanes,
courts and sidewalks, and those parts of public squares and places which form
traveled parts of highways.
   (E)   The words PUBLIC GROUNDS shall mean and include the common and public
garden, the public lands under the charge of the Parks and Recreation
Department and those parts of public squares and places which do not form
traveled parts of highways.
   (F)   The word OWNER, applied to a building or land, shall mean and include
any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant, of the whole or
of a part of such building or land.
   (G)   The word TENANT or OCCUPANT, applied to a building or land, shall mean
and include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
   (H)   The word PERSON shall mean and include firms and corporations.
   (I)   The word OFFICER shall mean and include Officers and Boards in charge
of Departments and the members of such Boards; and the word SUBORDINATE shall
include all assistants, deputies and employees appointed by an Officer.
   (J)   The words FANEUIL-HALL MARKET shall mean and include the lower floors,
porches and cellar of the building called “Faneuil Hall”.
   (K)   The words FANEUIL-HALL MARKET LIMITS shall mean and include Faneuil-
Hall Market as defined in division (J) above, and the territory included within
the following boundary, viz.: Beginning in the northerly line of North Market
Street extended, at a point 35 feet distant westerly from the sidewalk on the
easterly side of Commercial Street; thence parallel with and 35 feet distant
westerly from said sidewalk, to a line 35 feet distant northerly from the
sidewalk on the southerly side of South Market Street extended; thence by a
line parallel with and 35 feet distant northerly from said sidewalk to
Merchants Row; thence diagonally across Merchants Row to the nearest point in a
line 20 feet distant northerly from the sidewalk on the southerly side of
Faneuil Hall Square; thence by a line parallel with and 20 feet outside of the
sidewalk of said square and North Market Street to Merchants Row; thence
diagonally across said Merchants Row to the northeast corner of said Merchants
Row and North Market Street; thence by the northerly side of said North Market
Street to the point of beginning; but excluding any territory which is the
subject of that certain redevelopment agreement made as of May 21, 1974, by and
between the Boston Redevelopment Authority and Faneuil Hall Marketplace, Inc.
   (L)   The words MARKET LIMITS, without any words of limitation preceding
them, shall mean and include the territory bounded as follows: Beginning at the
southerly corner of Atlantic Avenue and State Street; thence running west by
the southerly line of State Street to India Street; thence north to the center
line of State Street; thence west by the center line of State Street to the
line of the curbstone on the easterly side of Commercial Street produced to the
centerline of State Street; thence north by the line of the curbstone on the
easterly side of Commercial Street produced to the center of State Street to a
point in the curbstone on the easterly side of Commercial Street opposite the
corner of said street and State Street; thence west across Commercial Street to
the westerly corner of Commercial Street and State Street; thence north by the
westerly line of Commercial Street to Chatham Street; thence west by the
southerly line of Chatham Street and by said line produced to the westerly line
of Merchants Row; thence north by the westerly line, west by the southerly
line, and again north by the westerly line of Merchants Row to Faneuil Hall
Square; thence west by the southerly line and north by the westerly line of
Faneuil Hall Square to Dock Square; thence west by the southerly line of Dock
Square to Exchange Street; thence north by the easterly line of Exchange Street
produced across Dock Square; thence north by the westerly line of Dock Square
and across Elm Street to the corner of Elm and Union Streets; thence north by
the westerly line of Union Street to the southerly corner of Friend and Union
Streets; thence east across Union Street to the corner of Union and North
Streets; thence east by the northerly line and northeast by the northwesterly
line of North Street to Blackstone Street; thence northwest by the
southwesterly line of Blackstone Street to Haymaker Square; thence north across
Blackstone Street to the corner of Cross and Blackstone Streets; thence
southeast by the northeasterly line of Blackstone Street to the corner of
Blackstone and North Streets; thence northeast by the northwesterly line of
North Street to the northerly corner of North and Richmond Streets; thence
crossing North Street, southeast by the northeasterly line and east by the
northerly line of Richmond Street to the northerly corner of said street and
Atlantic Avenue; thence east by the northerly line of Richmond Street produced
across Atlantic Avenue to the easterly side thereof; thence south by the
easterly line of Atlantic Avenue to the northerly corner of said avenue and
India Wharf; thence west across Atlantic Avenue to the northerly corner of said
avenue and India Street; and thence north by the westerly line of Atlantic
Avenue to the point of beginning. All said Faneuil-Hall MARKET LIMITS are shown
in red, and said MARKET LIMITS are shown in blue, on a plan numbered L-2826 and
marked: “Faneuil Hall Market Limits and Market Limits in the City of Boston,
February 16,1897, William Jackson, City Engineer”, and filed in the Office of
the Commissioner of Public Works; but excluding any territory which is the
subject of that certain redevelopment agreement made as of May 21, 1974, by and
between the Boston Redevelopment Authority and Faneuil Hall Marketplace, Inc.
   (M)   Words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more Officers
or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of
such Officers or persons.
   (N)   Words prohibiting anything from being done, except in accordance with
a license or permit or authority from a Board or Officer, shall be construed as
giving such Board or Officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing
to be done.
(Para 5. Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 1; Para 9. Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 1; Para 10. Ord. 1974 c.
15 § 1; Para 11. Ord. May 18, 1866, Ord. 1974 c. 15 § 2; Para 12. St. 1896 c.
376, St. 1907 c. 584, Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 15 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961
c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 1; CBC 1985 1-1)
1-2   CITY SEAL AND CITY FLAG.
1-2.1   City Seal.
   The seal of the city shall be circular in form, shall bear a view of the
city, the motto SICUT PATRIBUS, SIT DEUS NOBIS and the inscription, BOSTONIA
CONDITA AD. 1630 CIVITATIS REGIMINE DONATA AD. 1822, as herewith shown.
   [IMAGE]
(Ord. January 2, 1823; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 2; CBC 1985
1-2.1)
1-2.2   Municipal Standard and City Flag.
   The municipal standard of the city, which is hereby established, shall be
made of silk of the colors designated, namely: Continental blue and buff, and
shall be 5 feet in length and 3½ feet in width, or in proportion thereto.
Provided that a city flag of like design and colors may be made of bunting for
outdoor display, the size of such bunting flag to depend upon the place of
display. The body of the standard shall be blue, as specified, with the
official city seal embroidered in the center; and two rings of white shall
encircle the seal. The reverse of the municipal standard shall bear a
representation of the Trimountain. The city flag shall have no reverse except
the seal showing through the bunting, the seal to be painted on or woven in the
fabric. The municipal standard shall have a fringe of Continental buff; the
city flag shall be without fringe.
(Ord. 1961 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 3; CBC 1985 1-2.2)
1-2.3   City Colors.
   The colors herein specified shall be the official colors for the city,
namely: Continental blue and Continental buff.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 4; CBC 1985 1-2.3)
1-2.4   Displaying Flag on City Hall and Boston Common.
   The city flag shall be displayed on City Hall and may be displayed on Boston
Common on occasions when the national flag is ordered displayed.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 5; CBC 1985 1-2.4)
1-2.5   Further Uses of Flag.
   The municipal standard of silk may be carried or displayed in parades, at
reviews and on other official occasions when the Mayor is present and when
directed by him or her. City organizations may have copies of the municipal
standard on approval by the Mayor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 9; CBS 1975 Ord. T1, § 6; CBC 1985 1-2.5)
1-2.6   Prohibitions on Use of Flag.
   Neither the municipal standard nor the city flag nor any reproduction shall
be used for any commercial purpose, and no advertising device shall be placed
upon it or used in connection with it; and the municipal flag or standard shall
not be used for any purpose not authorized by the foregoing Sections, except
with the permission of the Mayor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 7; CBC 1985 1-2.6 1-2.7
1-2.7   Penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of Subsection 1-2.6 shall be punished by
a fine not exceeding $20 for each offense, and not only the person actually
doing the prohibited thing, but also his or her employer and every other person
concerned in so doing shall be punished by such fine.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 8; CBC 1985 1-2.7)
1-2.8   Custodian.
   The City Messenger shall be custodian of the municipal standard and of the
city flag.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 9; CBC 1985 1-2.8)
1-3   DISPLAY OF UNITED STATES FLAG.
   The United States flag shall be displayed, unless the weather is unsuitable,
upon the City Hall on every day except Sunday, and upon the other public
buildings and public places where flag poles are available on Franklin’s
Birthday, January 17; Lincoln’s Birthday, February 12; Washington’s Birthday,
February 22; Evacuation Day, March 17; Patriots’ Day, April 19; Grant’s
Birthday, April 27; Memorial Day, May 30; Flag Day, June 14; Bunker Hill Day,
June 17; Independence Day, July 4; Labor Day, first Monday in September;
anniversary of the settlement of Boston, September 17; Columbus Day, October
12; Veterans Day, November 11; and on such other days as the Mayor or the
Boston City Council may, from time to time, order. Whenever any of the above-
named days fall on Sunday, the flags shall be displayed on the following day.
It shall be the duty of the Assistant Commissioner of real property to display
the flag in accordance with this Section upon the City Hall and other public
buildings under his or her care, custody and management.
(Ord. 1944 c. 2; Ord. 1953 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 79; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 §
13; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 10; CBC 1985 1-3)
1-3A   DISPLAY OF FLAGS ON CITY HALL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The purpose of this Section is to establish guidelines for the display
by the city of:
      (1)   Flags of governments recognized by the federal government; and
      (2)   Other flags on City Hall Plaza.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to conflict with Subsections 1-2.4
to 1-2.7, inclusive or Section 1-3.
(CBC 1985 1-3A; Ord. 2022 c. 6)
1-3A.1   Policy.
   It is the policy of the city that flags should be displayed in conformance
with federal and commonwealth policies, as stated in the federal “Our Flag”
publication of the Congress, House Document No. 96-144; M.G.L. Chapter 2,
Section 6 and M.G.L. Chapter 2, Section 6A.
(CBC 1985 1-3A.1; Ord. 2022 c. 6)
1-3A.2   Order of Precedence.
   Outdoor flags will be flown at city facilities in the following order of
precedence: first, the United States flag; second, the commonwealth flag; and
third, the city flag.
(CBC 1985 1-3A.2; Ord. 2022 c. 6)
1-3A.3   Special Occasions of Federal, Commonwealth and Local Proclamation.
   (A)   Flags on City Hall Plaza shall be displayed in accordance with the
above standards. However, the Mayor may order flags to be lowered to half staff
including, but not limited to, flags of the United States of America and the
commonwealth in honor of the death of a city employee killed in the line of
duty, or in observance of a specific event or circumstance.
   (B)   Pursuant to proclamation of the Mayor, or resolution of the Boston
City Council, other flags may be flown by the city in place of the city flag.
(CBC 1985 1-3A.3; Ord. 2022 c. 6)
1-3A.4   Other Flags.
   The city’s flagpoles are not intended to serve as a forum for free
expression by the public. The following flags may be displayed by the city as
an expression of the city’s official sentiments.
   (A)   Flags of governments recognized by the United States. Flags of
governments recognized by the United States may be displayed upon the
proclamation of the Mayor or by resolution of the Boston City Council.
   (B)   Flags displayed in conjunction with official events or ceremonies as
announced by Mayoral proclamation or Boston City Council resolution. By
proclamation of the Mayor or resolution of the Boston City Council, other flags
may be displayed as official city events or ceremonies.
   (C)   Flags of professional sports teams. The Mayor may order the display of
the flag of a professional sports team in commemoration of a significant
achievement involving the city.
   (D)   Ownership of other flags. The city shall acquire ownership of all
flags that it flies in place of the city flag.
(CBC 1985 1-3A.4; Ord. 2022 c. 6)
1-4   CITY AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   All automobiles owned by the city shall be registered in its name, and
shall be painted a uniform distinctive color, bearing on each side the words
“City of Boston” and also a designation in words showing by which Department
such automobiles are used; provided, however, that the automobiles of the Fire
Department may be painted red.
   (B)   No Department, Agency, Board or Division of the city shall purchase,
lease, rent or otherwise acquire any passenger automobile certified by the
Environmental Protection Agency of the United States as having a city mileage
rate of less than 24 miles per gallon of gasoline. The provisions of this
Section shall not apply to vehicles used for security, emergency and for rescue
purposes.
(Ord. 1909 c. 9; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 11; Ord. 1980 c.
14; CBC 1985 1-4)
1-5   CONTROL OF ROOMS IN CITY HALL.
   In the City Hall, the rooms used by the Mayor shall be under his or her
control; the rooms used by the City Clerk shall be under his or her control;
and the rooms used by the Boston City Council shall, except as ordered by the
Boston City Council, be under the control of the President of the Boston City
Council. All rooms in the City Hall, the City Hall Annex and other public
buildings, not assigned by this Section, may be assigned by the Assistant
Commissioner of Real Property with the approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T1 § 12; CBC 1985
1-5)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 11-7.4
1-6   PROHIBITING ADVERTISING OF NAME OF ELECTED OFFICIAL ON CITY PUBLICATIONS.
   Unless expressly authorized by the Mayor and Boston City Council the name,
title, photograph or other image of any City Official shall not appear on any
publication, pamphlet, television or radio advertising, or advertising display
of any description paid for in whole or in part from funds appropriated by the
Boston City Council or from funds requiring approval of the Council prior to
expenditure.
(Ord. 1979 c. 11; CBC 1985 1-6)
1-7   PROHIBITING USE OF WORD MAYOR IN TITLES OF PERSONS NOT SO DESIGNATED BY
STATUTE.
1-7.1   Use of Title “Mayor”.
   No person in the city service or employ, other than the lawfully elected
Mayor and the Acting Mayor chosen in accordance with the provisions of City of
Boston Code, Statute 2, Section 4, shall use or be entitled to use the word
Mayor in the title of any position held by such person in such service or
employ. Any position presently existing or purporting to exist which conflicts
with the provisions of this Section shall be, and hereby is, abolished. The
Collector-Treasurer shall be, and hereby is, prohibited from making any
payments of city funds for the salary of any person holding or purporting to
hold any position in conflict with this Section.
(Ord. 1979 c. 41 § 11; CBC 1985 1-7.1)
CHAPTER II: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
2-1   IN GENERAL
   
2-1.1   Concerning Ceremonies in Connection with Oaths of Office of Elected
Officials
   
2-1.2   Absence of the Mayor
2-2   INCORPORATION OF CITY
2-3   ELECTION DEPARTMENT
   
2-3.1   Powers and Duties
   
2-3.2   Verification of Information Pertaining to Certain Voters
   
2-3.3   Notice Required of Change of Polling Place
   
2-3.4   Prepaid Envelopes for Mail-In Voting
2-4   LISTING BOARD
   
2-4.1   Duties of Board
   
2-4.2   Police assigned to Listing Board
2-5   CAMPAIGN SPENDING
   
2-5.1   Limitations on Campaign Spending in City Preliminary Elections and City
Elections
2-6   RELATING TO POLICE OFFICERS IN ATTENDANCE AT POLLING PLACES
2-7   MAYOR
   
2-7.1   Appointments by Mayor
   
2-7.2   Appointment of Weighers, Measurers, Surveyors, Inspectors of Certain
Articles
   
2-7.3   Transmission of Department Reports to Boston City Council
   
2-7.4   Execution of Instruments by Mayor
   
2-7.5   Discharge of Mortgages; Releases by Mayor
   
2-7.6   Release of Conditions
   
2-7.7   Cancellation of Bonds
   
2-7.8   Mayor as Officer to Grant Certain Licenses
   
2-7.9   Drafts, Checks and Orders
   
2-7.10   Power to Close Public Buildings
   
2-7.11   Salary
   
2-7.12   Office Expenses of Mayor
   
2-7.13   Defining “Presentation to the Mayor”
   
2-7.14   Limiting the Number of Certain Employees in Connection with the
Mayor’s Office
   
2-7.15   Loaned Executive Program
2-8   BOSTON CITY COUNCIL
   
2-8.1   Salary of City Councillors
   
2-8.2   Approval for Certain Sums
   
2-8.3   Boston City Council Personnel; Salaries
   
2-8.4   Reserved
2-9   DISTRICT CITY COUNCILLORS AND SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS
   
2-9.1   Signature Requirements for Candidates for District Elective Positions
in Municipal Elections
   
2-9.2   Establishing Nine Electoral Districts
   
2-9.3   2023 Special Election Precincting for District Eight
2-10   CITY CLERK
   
2-10.1   General Duties of City Clerk
   
2-10.2   Records of Appointments
   
2-10.3   Minors’ Licenses
   
2-10.4   Assistant City Clerk
   
2-10.5   Registry Division
   
2-10.6   Notifying Boston City Council of Mayor’s Action
   
2-10.7   Archives and Records Management Division
2-11   CITY RECORD
2-12   ORDINANCES
   
2-12.1   Construction of Ordinance; Repeal
   
2-12.2   Enacting Style
   
2-12.3   Publication
   
2-12.4   Departments Created
   
2-12.5   Adoption and Promulgation of Forms and Regulations
2-13   REQUIRING THE ATTACHMENT OF A FISCAL NOTE TO CERTAIN LEGISLATION
   
2-13.1   When Required; Information to be Included
   
2-13.2   Form of Fiscal Note
   
2-13.3   Information and Procedures
2-14   STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS
   
2-14.1   Title and Purpose
   
2-14.2   Definitions
   
2-14.3   Statement of Financial Interests
   
2-14.4   Penalties and Enforcement
2-15   LOBBYIST REGISTRATION AND REGULATION
   
2-15.1   Title and Purpose
   
2-15.2   Definitions
   
2-15.3   Registration and Reporting Requirements
   
2-15.4   Municipal Lobbying Compliance Commission; Penalties and Enforcement
   
2-15.5   Exemption from Regulations for Certain Public Employees
2-1   IN GENERAL.
2-1.1   Concerning Ceremonies in Connection with Oaths of Office of Elected
Officials.
   No city funds shall be expended in connection with any ceremony attending
the taking of an oath of Office as provided for by CBC, St. 2 § 2 unless such
funds are expressly appropriated by the Boston City Council for such purpose,
nor unless the time and place for holding such ceremony is fixed by the Mayor
with approval of the Boston City Council. In the event that city funds are
expended for such purpose without such express appropriation, the Boston City
Council may, under the provision of CBC, St. 4 § 4, on behalf of the city,
proceed against any city official making or authorizing such expenditure.
(Ord. 1980 c. 2; CBC 1985 2-1.1)
2-1.2   Absence of the Mayor.
   The Mayor of the city shall be required to inform the Boston City Council
President of any absence of the Mayor from the city. The Mayor shall provide
the date of his or her departure from the city and the date of his or her
return to the city to the Boston City Council President.
(CBC 1985 2-1.2; Ord. 1988 c. 2 § 1)
2-2   INCORPORATION OF CITY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T2 c. 3; CBC 1985 2-2)
2-3   ELECTION DEPARTMENT.
2-3.1   Powers and Duties.
   The Election Department shall be under the charge of a Board of four
Commissioners, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by
statute; and shall, in the annual report, include a statement of the number of
male and female persons registered as voters in each voting precinct of the
city, and the number of such persons voting at each election held during the
preceding year for each person for whom votes were deposited for Governor and
for Mayor.
(St. 1895 c. 449 §§ 2-8; St. 1913 c. 835 § 78; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 13 § 1; CBC
1975 Ord. T2 § 200; CBC 1985 2-3.1)
2-3.2   Verification of Information Pertaining to Certain Voters.
   Immediately following the registration of a voter under the provisions of
M.G.L. Chapter 51, Section 42, the Election Commission of the city shall
proceed to determine whether there appears at that time to be probable cause to
believe that the affiant has made a false statement in such an affidavit.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Commission, or any Agent
of it, shall do the following:
   (A)   Examine the then most-recent Annual Listing of Residents, to determine
whether or not the affiant is listed at the address given, and in the event the
affiant is not listed;
   (B)   Request the affiant to produce reasonable proof of residence,
satisfactory to the Election Commission or its Agent, and in the event the
affiant fails to produce reasonable identification, the said Commission or its
Agent, shall do as described in division (C) below;
   (C)   Forthwith dispatch to the affiant by first class mail, postage
prepaid, in an envelope endorsed “Address Correction Requested - Do Not
Forward” a notice, informing the affiant that unless the Commission shall
receive, within ten days of the date of mailing, a signed, written confirmation
of receipt of said notice, by means of a card or letter which can be mailed by
the affiant without the paying of postage therefor, the Commission will proceed
under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 51, Section 47B to determine his or her
qualifications to vote.
(Ord. 1975 c. 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 201; CBC 1985 2-3.2)
2-3.3   Notice Required of Change of Polling Place.
   No change of polling places shall be made in the city until reasonable
notice of the proposed change has been given by the Board of Election
Commissioners to the at-large Boston City Councillors and the district City
Councillor from the district.
(CBC 1985 2-3.3; Ord. 1985 c. 2)
2-3.4   Prepaid Envelopes for Mail-In Voting.
   Whenever the Election Department sends mail-in ballots to voters, the return
envelopes shall be prepaid by the city.
(CBC 1985 2-3.4; 2021 c. 12 § 1)
2-4   LISTING BOARD.
2-4.1   Duties of Board.
   The Listing Board constituted under Chapter 29 of the General Acts of 1917,
as amended by Chapter 287 of the Acts of 1938, shall, each year in the course
of making a list of all dogs owned by the inhabitants of the city pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 150, ascertain whether each such dog is licensed or
unlicensed, and shall return such information to the Police Commissioner and to
the Animal Control Officer or to the domestic charitable corporation, from time
to time, performing by contract the duties of Animal Control Officer in
accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 151. The Listing Board or its
Agents shall, at the time of so ascertaining, by means of a suitable written
notice inform each owner or harborer of an unlicensed dog of the penalties for
harboring such dog and of the procedure for procuring a dog license. The
Listing Board or its Agents shall give to each owner or harborer of an
unlicensed dog the form of application for a dog license that may, from time to
time, be prescribed by the Police Commissioner, with as many duplicate copies
of the same as may be required by the Police Commissioner, and shall inform
each such owner or harborer of the procedure, if any, that may be, from time to
time, established by the Police Commissioner for submitting such application
and securing such license by mail.
(Ord. 1972 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 202; CBC 1985 2-4.1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 §
1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 140, Sections 150—151; Gen. Acts. 1917 c. 29; St. 1938 c.
287; Ord. ss 2-3.1)
2-4.2   Police Assigned to Listing Board.
   During the conduct of the Annual Listing of Residents, except as otherwise
provided by Chapter 29 of the Acts of 1917, the Police Commissioner of the city
shall detail to the Listing Board, two Police Patrol Officers in each Police
Division of the city who shall during the time of their detail be subject to
the lawful orders of said Board.
(Ord. 1975 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 203; CBC 1985 2-4.2)
2-5   CAMPAIGN SPENDING.
2-5.1   Limitations on Campaign Spending in City Preliminary Elections and City
Elections.
   (A)   Limitation on monies expended for political campaign. No person being
a candidate for the Office of Mayor, City Councillor at Large or School
Committee Member, at any regular or special election or preliminary election,
and no person acting with his or her leave or authority, or without such leave
or authority, including, but not limited to, the Treasurer or Chair of a non-
elected political Committee, shall expend, cause to be expended, allow to be
expended or suffer to be expended, in the municipal year of such election, any
monies in furtherance of the campaign of such a candidate, for whatever
purpose, by any person, in excess of the amounts hereinafter set out, which
shall be the aggregate of expenditures by all persons, under whatever color or
guise, in furtherance of that campaign;
      (1)   The Office of Mayor: $200,000;
      (2)   The Office of City Councillor at Large: $20,000; and
      (3)   The Office of School Committee Member: $20,000.
   (B)   Monies spent in excess; fine established. 
      (1)   Every dollar expended in excess of the above limitations shall be
deemed to be a separate offense, and each offense shall be punished by a fine
of $2.
      (2)   For the purposes of this Section, the incurring of a liability for
goods and services in furtherance of such a campaign shall be deemed to be an
expenditure of monies equal to the amount of such liability, and it shall be
deemed to have been expended on the date the liability was incurred.
   (C)   Effective date. The provisions of Subsection 2-12.3 to the contrary
notwithstanding, this Section shall be published by the action of the Boston
City Council in adopting the same, and shall take effect on the first Monday in
January of the year 1976.
   (D)   Severability. The provisions hereof are severable and the decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction invalidating or impairing the validity of
any part or portion hereof shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any
remaining part or portion of this Section.
(Ord. 1975 c. 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 204; CBC 1985 2-5.1)
Editor’s note:
   This Section should be read against Buckley v. Valeo, 44 U.S.L.W. 4127 (U.S.
Jan. 30, 1976) which held federal campaign limitations unconstitutional.
2-6   RELATING TO POLICE OFFICERS IN ATTENDANCE AT POLLING PLACES.
   The Police Officer in attendance at the several polling places at primaries,
elections, preliminary elections and city elections, in addition to performing
the duties otherwise set forth by law, shall:
   (A)   Inspect each voting machine prior to the opening of the polls to
ensure that no votes have been cast upon it since being set;
   (B)   Verify by inspection that “protective counter” setting against the
number provided by the voting machine custodian;
   (C)   Place a mark next to the name of each voter who casts a ballot at such
location, on the voting list provided by law; and
   (D)   Report any machine malfunction, irregularity or disturbance in or
round the polling location, both to his or her station house and to the
Election Commission.
(Ord. 1978 c. 8; CBC 1985 2-6)
2-7   MAYOR.
2-7.1   Appointments by Mayor.
   The Mayor shall appoint heads of Departments and members of Municipal Boards
and fill vacancies therein in the manner provided by law. He or she shall, in
the municipal year in which the term of the incumbent expires, appoint the
following Officers, to serve for the terms hereinafter specified:
   (A)   For the term of three years, beginning with May 1 in the year of
appointment: four Overseers of the Public Welfare;
   (B)   For the term of four years, beginning with May 1 in the year of
appointment: the Fire Commissioner, Inspectional Services Commissioner, the
Corporation Counsel and the Penal Institutions Commissioner; and
   (C)   For the term of five years, beginning with May 1 in the year of
appointment: one Trustee of the Boston Public Library.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 2; Ord. 1954 c. 3 § l; Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961
(Sup. 1971) c. 2 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 350; CBC 1985 2-7.1; Ord.1995 c. 8 §
13)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 7-2.1; St. 1909 c. 486 s. 13
   See also Chapter XV: Divisions of the Mayor’s Office
2-7.2   Appointment of Weighers, Measurers, Surveyors, Inspectors of Certain
Articles.
   (A)   The Mayor shall annually appoint, subject to confirmation by the
Boston City Council, Officers to act as weighers, measurers, surveyors or
inspectors of certain articles, each for a term of one year beginning with May
1 in the year of appointment, who shall exercise the powers and perform the
duties provided by the statutes and ordinances relating to the weighing,
measuring, surveying or inspecting of such articles, shall be sworn to a
faithful performance of their duties, shall be paid the fees established by
law, and shall receive no compensation from the city, viz.:
      (1)   One or more employees of any person, firm or corporation to be
weighers of goods, who shall have no other authority than to weigh, for the
benefit of their employers, all goods or materials (except beef and coal) sold
or purchased by such employers in the ordinary course of business;
      (2)   One or more weighers of coal, one of whom shall not be engaged in
the business of selling coal;
      (3)   One or more weighers of beef, who shall not be dealers in cattle;
      (4)   One or more weighers of vessels and ballast, who shall not at the
time of appointment or during their term of Office own, or act as Agent of, or
have any interest in, a vessel engaged in the transportation of stone, gravel,
sand or ballast, or be engaged or interested in the sale of stone, gravel, sand
or ballast;
      (5)   One or more measurers of wood and bark;
      (6)   One or more weighers of grain; and
      (7)   One or more measurers of leather who have been certified by the
Director of Standards as fit persons for such appointment.
   (B)   The Mayor shall annually appoint, subject to the confirmation of the
Boston City Council, Constables for the term of three years beginning with May
1 in the year of appointment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Subsections 5-5.2 and 5-5.3, all such Constables shall be
residents of the city upon appointment and shall remain residents of the city
during their tenure in Office, except for Housing Inspectors in the Housing
Inspection Department, who need not so reside, but who shall cease to act as
Constables and shall be removed from such Office immediately upon the
termination of employment as Housing Inspectors, unless they reside at that
time in the city as required of other Constables. Appointments of Constables
shall specify in each case whether the appointment is for a position connected
with the city or county service to serve without bond, or for the service of
civil process upon the filing of the bond required by law.
   (C)   The bond required in order to authorize the service of civil process
by Constables shall be in the sum of $5,000 with an incorporated surety
company, approved by the Collector-Treasurer as surety thereon, and only such
surety shall hereafter be accepted by the Boston City Council on said bonds.
   (D)   Satisfactory completion of such training course or other requirements
as are, from time to time, found necessary and prescribed by the Mayor for the
effective performance of the duties of Constable shall be a prerequisite for
appointment to the position of Constable.
   (E)   The Mayor may, with the consent of the Boston City Council, remove a
Constable from Office for gross misconduct. The Commissioner of the Boston
Police Department shall promulgate regulations supplementing the appointment
and/or removal of Constables pursuant to Subsection 2-7.2.
(St. June 18, 1802; St. 1848 c. 308; Ord. 1931 c. 7, 8, 10; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 3;
Ord. 1965 c. 5; Ord. 1966 c. 4; Ord. 1970 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (sup. 1971) c. 2
§ 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 351; Ord. 1977 c. 4; Ord. 1979 c. 38; Ord. 1982 c. 9; ;
CBC 1985 2-7.2; Ord. 2003 c. 20)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 94; M.G.L. Chapter 95; M.G.L. Chapter 102; Ord. ss 2-8.2;
Ord. ss 6-3.6
2-7.3   Transmission of Department Reports to Boston City Council.
   The Mayor shall, upon receiving any report of a Department required by the
Boston City Council to be made to him or her, transmit the same to the Boston
City Council with such suggestions as he or she shall deem proper.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 352; CBC 1985 2-7.3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.6
2-7.4   Execution of Instruments by Mayor.
   The Mayor shall countersign all notes, bonds or scrip of the city, and may
execute in its behalf all instruments to be executed by the city; but this
provision shall not be construed to prevent any Office from executing any
instrument in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. November 18, 1833; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 353; CBC
1985 2-7.4)
2-7.5   Discharge of Mortgages; Releases by Mayor.
   The Mayor may, upon payment to the Collector-Treasurer of the amount due on
the mortgage of an estate mortgaged to the city, discharge or release the
mortgage, or assign the same without recourse to the city, and may execute and
deliver in behalf of the city all legal instruments necessary to effectuate
such discharge, release or assignment.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 354; CBC 1985
2-7.5)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.6
2-7.6   Release of Conditions.
   The Mayor may execute and deliver to any person holding land the title to
which is derived under a deed given by the city and creating an estate upon
condition, a deed of release, acknowledging that up to the time when such deed
of release is given such condition has been fully complied with, and releasing
such land from the possibility of forfeiture to the city for any breach of
condition happening prior to the date of the release.
(Ord. July 31, 1878; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 355; CBC 1985
2-7.6)
2-7.7   Cancellation of Bonds.
   The Mayor may, upon the execution of a new bond satisfactory to him or her,
cancel, or release the sureties on, any bond given to the city for the
performance of a contract or the duties of an Office.
(Ord. 1895 c. 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 7, CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 356; CBC 1985 2-
7.7)
2-7.8   Mayor as Officer to Grant Certain Licenses.
   The Mayor shall be the Officer to grant licenses under Chapter 538 of the
Acts of 1909, entitled “An Act Relative to the Receiving of Alms in Public
Places in the City of Boston”, and licenses under M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section
33 and under Section 12A of said Chapter 101.
(St. 1909 c. 538; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2; St. 1970 c. 225 and Ord. 1972 c. 12, CBC
1975 Ord. T2 § 357; CBC 1985 2-7.8)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section 33
2-7.9   Drafts, Checks and Orders.
   All drafts drawn by the City Auditor upon the Collector-Treasurer and the
form of all drafts, checks and orders used by the City Auditor shall be subject
to the approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. December 22, 1825; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 8; CBC 1975
Ord. T2 § 358; CBC 1985 2-7.9)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.2
2-7.10   Power to Close Public Buildings.
   The Mayor may order any or all public buildings or Offices to be closed for
any period not exceeding one day at a time whenever he or she deems it
expedient, and may order flags to be displayed upon public buildings at any
time.
(Ord. December 20, 1881; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 9; CBC 1975 Cod. T2 § 359; CBC
1985 2-7.10)
2-7.11   Salary.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be paid an annual salary not to exceed $250,000.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall take effect on the first Tuesday of January,
following the next municipal election in which the Mayor of Boston is elected.
(Ord. 1967 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (sup. 1971) c. 2 § 9A; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 360;
Ord. 1980 c. 12; CBC 1985 2-7.11; Ord. 1986 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 1994 c.16 § 1; Ord.
1998 c. 2 § II; Ord. 2002 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2006 c. 3 § 1; Ord. 2015 c. 9 § 1;
Ord. 2018 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2022 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2022 c. 10 § 1, 8)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2018 c. 6 § 9 indicates Mayor’s salary will not take effect until
January of 2022.
2-7.12   Office Expenses of Mayor.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, no position shall be created, nor shall
any compensation level be established, nor shall any change be made in any
compensation level in any Agency which is funded in whole or in part by a
Boston City Council appropriation order or by funds the expenditure of which
required approval of the Boston City Council except by ordinance; nor shall the
Mayor, unless authorized to do so by ordinance, appoint or incur expense to the
city for more than 30 noncivil service persons connected with his or her Office
as administrative assistants, secretaries, stenographers, clerks, telephone
operators or messengers, no more than 12 of whom shall be administrative
assistants; nor shall the compensation of any of such administrative
assistants, secretaries, stenographers, clerks, telephone operators or
messengers be established or changed except by ordinance. Any position in or
connected with the Mayor’s Office other than that of administrative assistant,
secretary, stenographer, clerk, telephone operator or messenger, existing
outside of civil service law, which was filled at the pleasure of the Mayor, as
provided for by this Section, or any other applicable provision of law, is
hereby abolished on and after July 1, 1979; and any such position of
administrative assistant, secretary, stenographer, clerk, telephone operator or
messenger in excess of 30, in or connected with the Mayor’s Office is hereby
abolished on and after July 1, 1979.
(Ord. 1889 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 2 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 361; Ord. 1979 c.
12; CBC 1985 2-7.12)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.14
Editor’s note:
   This Subsection should be read against City Council of Boston et al vs.
Mayor of Boston et al 383 Mass. 716 which held the Office of the Mayor of
Boston not a “Department or Agency” subject to reorganization by the City
Council as an exercise of their authority.
2-7.13   Defining “Presentation to the Mayor”.
   The passage or adoption by the Boston City Council of any order, ordinance
or resolution (except special municipal election orders adopted under Section
13 of Chapter 2 of the Ordinances of 1974, votes relating to the internal
affairs of said Boston City Council, resolutions not affecting legal rights,
votes electing officials and votes confirming appointments by the Mayor) shall
constitute its presentation to the Mayor for his or her approval in accordance
with the provisions of Section 17D of Chapter 452 of the Acts of 1948, as
amended.
(Ord. 1974 c. 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 362; CBC 1985 2-7.13)
2-7.14   Limiting the Number of Certain Employees in Connection with the
Mayor’s Office.
   The number of secretaries, stenographers, clerks, telephone operators and
messengers connected with the Mayor’s Office who shall be exempt from the Civil
Service laws, in accordance with the provisions of this Section, shall not
exceed 30.
(Ord. 1979 c. 7; CBC 1985 2-7.14)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.12
2-7.15   Loaned Executive Program.
   The Mayor, from time to time as necessary to carry out and discharge the
conduct of the executive or administrative business of the city or county, may
appoint volunteer administrative and/or other personnel who shall receive no
compensation from the city; provided, however, that such volunteer personnel
may receive compensation from their private employer, if any, for the period of
time during which they are providing voluntary services to the city. Said
volunteer personnel shall serve in an advisory role and shall not replace any
regular city employee. Said volunteer personnel shall be reviewed and renewed
on an annual basis as deemed appropriate by the Mayor. No volunteer personnel
shall participate in the making of any contract of the city.
(Ord. 1993 c. 13; CBC 1985 2-7.15)
2-8   BOSTON CITY COUNCIL.
2-8.1   Salary of City Councillors.
   (A)   All City Councillors shall be paid an annual salary of $115,000 in the
municipal year 2024, $120,000 in the year 2025 and $125,000 in the municipal
year 2026 and years thereafter.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall take effect on the first Tuesday of January,
following the next municipal election in which members of the Boston City
Council are elected.
(Ord. 1964 c. 9; Ord. 1968 c. 13; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 2A § 1; Ord.
1974 c. 12 §§ 1, 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 450; Ord. 1980 c. 13; CBC 1985 2-8.1;
Ord. 1986 c. 3 § 1; Ord. 1994 c. 15 § 1; Ord. 1998 c. 2 § III; Ord. 2002 c. 6 §
2; Ord. 2006 c. 3 § 2; Ord. 2015 c. 9 § 2; Ord. 2018 C. 6 § 2; Ord. 2022 c. 8 §
2; Ord. 2022 c. 10 § 2, 9)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2018 c. 6 § 10 indicates City Councillors salary will not take effect
until January of 2020.
2-8.2   Approval for Certain Sums.
   Sums appropriated for the purposes of the Boston City Council shall be
expended subject to the approval of the President of the Boston City Council.
(Ord. 1968 c. 11 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 2A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 §
451; CBC 1985 2-8.2)
2-8.3   Boston City Council Personnel; Salaries.
      (A)   For the conduct of the affairs of the City Council there shall be,
in addition to the City Clerk, a Central Staff Director and other such
subordinate Officers as may be appointed by a majority of the City Council from
time to time. Such Central Staff Director and subordinate Officers shall
perform such duties as the Council may provide by order from time to time, and
they shall receive an annual salary determined by Council order from within the
salary ranges below:
Officer Salary Range
Officer                                         Salary Range
Central Staff Director                          $115,000—$155, 000
Compliance Director and Staff Counsel           $102,000—$142, 000
Director of Legislative Budget Analysis         $90,000—$126,0 00
Research and Policy Director                    $90,000—$126,0 00
Television Programming and Technology Manager   $88,000—$108,0 00
Business Manager                                $84,000—$104,0 00
Communications Manager                          $76,000—$98,00 0
City Messenger and Senior Legislative Assistant $75,000—$97,00 0
Senior Legislative Assistant                    $74,000—$96,00 0
Budget Analyst                                  $74,000—$96,00 0
Office Manager                                  $65,000—$85,00 0
Legislative Assistant                           $58,000—$78,00 0
Administration and Technical Assistant          $55,000—$75,00 0
 
   (B)   The City Council President may designate a Central Staff member to
serve in the capacity of Deputy Central Staff Director and may award stipends.
   (C)   For the conduct of the affairs of the City Council, in addition to the
Central Staff Director and subordinate Officers provided for, there shall be
administrative assistants and secretaries to be appointed, from time to time,
by the City Council. Each Councilor's Office shall receive $364,500 per year
and the President's Office shall receive $424,000 per year to pay such salaries
according to the rules of the City Council.
   (D)   Central Staff salary ranges and allocations for Councilors' Offices
shall be reviewed, at minimum, every two years, and may be updated more
frequently at the Council President's discretion.
(Ord. 1968 c. 11 § 1; Ord. 1968 c. 12 § 1; Ord. 1969 c. 13; Rev. Ord. 1961
(Sup. 1971) c. 2A 3; Ord. 1973 c. 3 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 3; Ord. 1974 c. 8; Ord.
1975 cs. 4, 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 452; Ord. 1976 c. 1; Ord. 1979 cs. 1, 24;
Ord. 1980 c. 11; Ord. 1983 cs. 3, 7, 19, 28, 29, 31, 32; Ord. 1984 cs. 20, 21;
Ord. 1985 c. 8; CBC 1985 2-8.3; Ord. 1986 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 6 § 1; Ord.
1992 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 1994 c. 11 § 1; Ord. 1995 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 1996 c. 4; Ord.
1996 c. 7, § 1; Ord. 1998 c. 4; Ord. 2001 c. 3; Ord. 2001 c. 4; Ord. 2001 c. 5;
Ord. 2001 c. 6; Ord. 2004 c. 5; Ord. 2005 c. 4; Ord. 2006 c. 11 § 1; Ord. 2007
c. 3 § 1; Ord. 2008 c. 10 § 1; Ord. 2012 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 10; Ord. 2015
c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2018 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2022 c. 3 § 1; Ord. 2023
c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2023 c. 7; Ord. 2024 c. 4 § 1)
2-8.4   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1984 c. 21 § 1; CBC 1985 2-8.4; Repealed by Ord. 1992 c. 2)
2-9   DISTRICT CITY COUNCILLORS AND SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
2-9.1   Signature Requirements for Candidates for District Elective Positions
in Municipal Elections.
   Nomination petitions as provided for in St. 1948, c. 452, s. 55A, as
inserted by St. 1951, c. 376, s. 2, shall be signed in the case of candidates
for City Councillor elected from a District, and School Committee member
elected from a District, by at least 200 registered voters of the city,
qualified by their residence and otherwise, to vote for such candidate;
provided, however, if in any district, 200 exceeds 2% of the vote cast for
Mayor in the preceding Mayoral election, then the petition shall be required to
contain signatures in a number equal to 2% of said vote cast.
(Ord. 1983 c. 5; CBC 1985 2-9.1)
2-9.2   Establishing Nine Electoral Districts.
   (A)   The districts redrawn under the authority of Chapter 605 of the Acts
of 1982, as amended by Chapter 343 of the Acts of 1986, are hereby redrawn by
dividing the 275 voting precincts of the city for the purpose of electing City
Councilors to represent the following nine districts:
      (1)   District One—Consisting of precincts numbered one through 14 of
Ward One; precincts numbered one through eight of Ward Two; and precincts
numbered one through four, six, 11 and 13 of Ward Three;
      (2)   District Two—Consisting of precincts numbered seven, eight, 12 and
14 of Ward Three; precincts one through three of Ward Four; precincts one, 13
and 14 of Ward Five; precincts two through 12 of Ward Six; precincts one
through seven of Ward Seven; precinct one of Ward Eight; and precinct one of
Ward Nine;
      (3)   District Three—Consisting of precinct numbered 15 of Ward One;
precincts 15 and 16 of Ward Three; precincts eight through ten of Ward Seven;
precincts two and six of Ward Eight; precincts three and five through ten of
Ward 13; precincts three, four and six through nine of Ward 15; precincts one
through 12 of Ward 16; precinct 13 of Ward 17;
      (4)   District Four—Consisting of precincts numbered one through 13 of
Ward 14; precincts one, two and five of Ward 15; precincts one through 12, and
14 of Ward 17; precincts one and seven of Ward 18; precinct 12 of Ward 19;
      (5)   District Five—Consisting of precincts numbered 14 of Ward 14;
precincts two through six and eight through 23 of Ward 18; precincts ten, 11
and 13 of Ward 19; precincts one, two, four, eight and nine of Ward 20;
      (6)   District Six—Consisting of precincts numbered six through nine of
Ward Ten; precincts four through ten of Ward 11; precincts one through nine of
Ward 19; three, five through seven and ten through 21 of Ward 20;
      (7)   District Seven—Consisting of precincts numbered four, five, seven,
eight, nine and 11 of Ward Four; precincts three through five of Ward Eight;
precincts two through seven of Ward Nine; precincts one through three of Ward
11; precincts one through nine of Ward 12; precincts one, two and four of Ward
13;
      (8)   District Eight—consisting of precincts numbered five, nine, ten and
17 of Ward Three; precincts six, ten and 12 of Ward Four; precincts two through
12, and 15 of Ward Five; precincts one through five of Ward Ten; precincts one
and two of Ward 21; and
      (9)   District Nine—Consisting of precincts numbered three through 16 of
Ward 21; and precincts one through 13 of Ward 22.
   (B)   The districts drawn under this Subsection shall take effect on the
first Monday in January following the next regular municipal election to be
held in the municipal year 2023 and shall continue in force until redrawn by
the City Council.
(Ord. 1983 c. 25 § 1; CBC 1985 2-9.1; Ord. 1987 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 1993 c. 4; Ord.
2002 c. 7; Ord. 2012 c. 6; Ord. 2019 c. 2; Ord. 2022 c. 9; Ord. 2023 c. 5)
2-9.3   Special Election Precincting for District Eight.
   For the purposes of any special preliminary election or special municipal
election to be held in 2023 to fill a vacancy in Boston City Council District
Eight as drawn by Chapter 6 of the Ordinances of 2012, said District shall be
administered according to new precincts ratified by the Board of Election
Commissioners since 2021, and so shall be redefined, for any such 2023 special
elections only, as follows: District Eight—Consisting of precincts numbered
five and nine of Ward Three; precincts numbered two through 12 and 15 of Ward
Five; precincts numbered one through five of Ward Ten; precincts numbered one
and two of Ward 21; and sub-precincts numbered ten ‘A’ of Ward Three and six
‘A’, seven ‘A’, eight ‘A’, nine ‘A’, ten ‘A’ and 12 ‘A’ of Ward Four. Contained
in each sub-precinct are the following addresses:
   (A)   Ward Three precinct ten A (six addresses): Causeway St: 50 and 234; 42
Lomasney Way; 100 Lovejoy Wharf; Nashua St: 1 and 200;
   (B)   Ward Four precinct six A (74 addresses): 11 Belvidere St; Clearway St:
10, 14, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 38, 40, 44, 48, 52, 56 and 60; Dalton St: 1 and 30;
Massachusetts Ave: 150, 160, 168; 30 Saint Cecilia St; Saint Germain St: 8, 10,
12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32,
33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52,
53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 63, 65 and 67;
   (C)   Ward Four precinct seven A (71 addresses): Boylston St: 1074, 1078,
1084, 1088, 1096, 1102 and 1126; Burbank St: 48, 49, 52, 54, 55, 59, 63, 64,
65, 70, 75; Edgerly Rd: 14, 15, 16, 18, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34, 36,
41; Haviland St: 13, 18 and 24; Hemenway St: 12, 20, 26, 30, 38, 58 and 64;
Massachusetts Ave: 143, 149, 173, 179, 185, 199 and 255; Norway St: 99, 100,
103, 111, 115 and 120; 12 Stoneholm St; Westland Ave: 43, 45, 57, 59, 65, 71,
73, 75, 77, 79, 81, 83, 85 and 91;
   (D)   Ward Four precinct eight A (53 addresses): Hemenway St: 98, 100, 104
and 108; Saint Stephen St: 23, 25 and 27; Symphony Rd: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13,
15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 67 and
71; Westland Ave: 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 24, 28, 32, 34, 38, 46, 52, 54, 58, 66,
70, 72, 78 and 90;
   (E)   Ward Four precinct nine A (two addresses): Huntington Ave: 610 and
620;
   (F)   Ward Four precinct ten A (45 addresses): 21 Autumn St; 107 Avenue
Louis Pasteur; Brookline Ave: 255, 275, 291, 305, 321 and 400; Evans Way: 20,
26 and 30; 400 Fenway; Huntington Ave: 525 and 555; 179 Longwood Ave; Louis
Prang St: 60, 62, 64, 66 and 68; 14 Palace Rd; Pilgrim Rd: 30, 37, 54, 78 and
86; Riverway: 100, 110, 114, 116, 118, 120, 122, 150, 154, 162, 210 and 214; 11
Tetlow St; Vancouver St: 7, 9, 11, 15, 17 and 19; and
   (G)   Ward Four precinct 12A (46 addresses): Fenway: 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34,
40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 60, 66, 70, 74, 80, 84, 90, 96 and 114;
Hemenway St: 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 39, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53, 55, 57, 59,
61, 65, 73, 97, 103, 119 and 129.
(Ord. 2023 c. 4)
2-10   CITY CLERK.
2-10.1   General Duties of City Clerk.
   (A)   The City Clerk’s Department shall be under the charge of the City
Clerk, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by
statute; shall have the care and custody of all records, documents, maps, plans
and papers of the city, concerning the care and custody of which no other
provision is made; shall attend all meetings of the Boston City Council, and
keep records of such meetings; shall cause every ordinance except ordinances
consolidating and arranging the ordinances to be printed as a city document as
soon as may be after its passage and, except as otherwise provided, to be
published once a week for three weeks successively in two daily newspapers
published in this city; shall keep a copy of the last revision of the
ordinances with all amendments codified and arranged therein; shall keep a book
containing a record of notices of accidents caused by defects in the streets;
and shall, at the close of each municipal year, prepare and print as city
documents:
      (1)   A pamphlet containing, except as otherwise provided, all ordinances
passed during each year; and
      (2)   A cumulative supplement to this Section codifying all ordinances,
whensoever passed, amending this Section.
   (B)   The Clerk, Assistant Clerk, Registrar or Assistant Registrar shall
post and perform marriages on the following days: Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Fridays between the hours of 10:00 a.m.—11:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.—3:30 p.m.
or at the discretion of the officiant. Marriages performed at the discretion of
the officiant shall only be performed in limited circumstances or in emergency
cases. There shall be a service fee of $15 paid to the city for couples that
choose to marry on municipal premises. The officiant shall keep a public record
of marriages performed on municipal premises in accordance with the provisions
of this Section; provided that the officiant shall keep private marriage
records restricted under commonwealth law.
   (C)   The Clerk, Assistant Clerk, Registrar or Assistant Registrar may not
perform marriages outside of City Hall during regular business hours.
(St. 1821 c. 110 § 10; St. 1909 c. 486 § 22; Ord. 1961 c. 7 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961
(Sup. 1971) c. 10 § 1; Ord. 1975 c. 7 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 550; CBC 1985 2-
10.1; Ord. 2012 c. 1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 41; St. T. 2 § 750; Ord. ss 17-14.1
2-10.2   Records of Appointments.
   The City Clerk shall keep a book containing the dates of appointment of all
Officers appointed by the Mayor or elected by the Boston City Council and a
statement, which shall be signed by every such Officer, that he or she accepts
his or her Office subject to the statutes and ordinances.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 10 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 551; CBC 1985 2-10.2)
2-10.3   Minors’ Licenses.
   The City Clerk shall, when so directed by the Boston City Council, issue
licenses and badges to minors, and shall in such case see that every such
licensee conforms to the conditions of his or her license.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 10 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 552; CBC 1985 2-10.3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 17-5.2; ss 17-5.3
2-10.4   Assistant City Clerk.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the recommendation of the Rules Committee of the Boston
City Council, the Boston City Council shall, by a majority of its members,
appoint an Assistant City Clerk who shall be thereafter approved by the Mayor
and then qualified and sworn to the faithful discharge of the duties of the
position. The Assistant City Clerk shall hold Office until the earliest of:
         (a)   The first Monday in February in the third calendar year of his
or her appointment and qualification;
         (b)   The date delineated in any letter of resignation tendered by the
Assistant City Clerk and accepted by a majority of the members of the Boston
City Council; or
         (c)   The date that a successor to the Assistant City Clerk is
appointed by a majority of the members of the Boston City Council and
thereafter qualified and sworn, and nothing in this Section shall prevent an
Acting Assistant City Clerk from serving as the successor under this Section
until such time as an Assistant City Clerk is appointed and qualified.
      (2)   Nothing in this Section shall prevent the Assistant City Clerk from
being appointed and qualified for successive terms.
   (B)   The Assistant City Clerk shall assist the City Clerk in the
performance of his or her Office and shall discharge the duties of the City
Clerk when that Officer is absent or when there is a vacancy in that Office.
The certificate or attestation of the Assistant City Clerk shall have the same
effect as that of the City Clerk.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall annually submit a written evaluation/performance
review of the Assistant City Clerk to each of the members of the Boston City
Council. The Rules Committee may meet with the City Clerk in order to discuss
the evaluation/performance review and the responsibilities and performance of
the Assistant City Clerk.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 10 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 553; Ord. 1977 c. 5; CBC 1985 2-
10.4 Ord. 2004 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2006 c. 6 § 1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 18
2-10.5   Registry Division.
   There shall be in the Office of the City Clerk a division, known as the
Registry Division, as provided in the Charter as that term is defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 5.
(Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T2, §
554; CBC 1985 2-10.5)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7; Chapter 656, § 7 of Acts of 1965
2-10.6   Notifying Boston City Council of Mayor’s Action.
   At the Boston City Council meeting next succeeding the sixteenth day after
the passage of every order, ordinance, resolution and vote of the Boston City
Council presented to the Mayor in accordance with Section 2-12, the City Clerk
shall notify the Boston City Council of the Mayor’s approval, disapproval or
failure to either approve or disapprove and such notification shall be made a
part of the record of such meeting.
(Ord. 1979 c. 6; CBC 1985 2-10.6)
2-10.7   Archives and Records Management Division.
   No ordinances apply. See Chapter 68 of the Acts of 1988.
(CBC 1985 2-10.7)
2-11   CITY RECORD.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T2 c. 13; CBC 1985 2-11)
2-12   ORDINANCES.
2-12.1   Construction of Ordinance; Repeal.
   This Section shall be known as the “City of Boston Code, Ordinances”, and it
shall take effect upon its passage. So far as its provisions are the same in
effect as those of previously existing ordinances and regulations, it shall be
construed as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations; it shall not
affect any act done, any right accrued, any penalty incurred, any suit,
prosecution or proceeding pending, or the tenure of Office of any person
holding Office, at the time when it takes effect; subject to said limitations,
all ordinances of the city heretofore in are hereby repealed, except the
ordinances relating to or amending the city’s Building Code established by
Chapter 479 of the Acts of 1938, the ordinances establishing or amending the
city’s Fire Prevention Code, and the ordinance establishing a Department of
Civil Defense.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1975 c. 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 750; CBC 1985 2-
12.1)
2-12.2   Enacting Style.
   All by-laws of the city shall be denominated ordinances, and the enacting
style shall be, “Be it ordained by the City Council of Boston, as follows”.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 2; Ord. 1975 c. 8 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 751; CBC 1985
2-12.2)
2-12.3   Publication.
   Every ordinance shall take effect upon its passage unless otherwise within
provided and shall be deemed published by action of the Boston City Council in
passing the same unless the Boston City Council shall otherwise by order
direct, in which event the City Clerk shall cause the ordinance, or such notice
as the Boston City Council directs, to be published, as an expense of the City
Clerk’s Office.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 752; Ord. 1984 c. 37; CBC 1985 2-
12.3)
2-12.4   Departments Created.
   The Departments named in the following chapters are hereby created, and
placed under the charge of the Officers or Boards designated therefor, under
the general supervision and control of the Mayor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 753; CBC 1985 2-12.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.1
2-12.5   Adoption and Promulgation of Forms and Regulations.
   (A)   City Departments shall, in adopting and promulgating forms and
regulations, adhere to the requirements of M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Commonwealth
Administrative Procedure, particularly Sections 1 through 6; provided, however,
that the City Clerk shall appropriately perform those duties designated therein
to be performed by the Secretary of State.
   (B)   Forms and regulations in effect prior to June 30, 1978, if not
readopted and repromulgated in accordance with the above standards shall become
null and void on June 30, 1978.
(Ord. 1975 c. 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T2 § 754; Ord.1976 c. 15; Ord.1977 c. 18; CBC
1985 2-12.5)
2-13   REQUIRING THE ATTACHMENT OF A FISCAL NOTE TO CERTAIN LEGISLATION.
2-13.1   When Required; Information to Be Included.
   The Deputy Director of Administrative Services for Fiscal Affairs of the
city shall prepare a fiscal note for all orders or ordinances which would
result in an expenditure of funds, except those which propose specific sum
appropriations. A fiscal note shall report:
   (A)   The estimated change effected by an order or ordinance upon city
expenditures over a period of five years after the implementation of the order
or ordinance unless the Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs certifies that the
cost of the order or ordinance over the initial five-year period will not
exceed $25,000;
   (B)   The estimated change effected by an order or ordinance upon city
expenditures after the initial five-year period if substantial increases or
decreases in the annual cost of the order or ordinance are expected to occur
after the initial five-year period; and
   (C)   What portion of the funds which will finance the order or ordinance
will be provided by the local, commonwealth and federal governments
respectively. The fiscal note shall also include actuarial data where relevant.
(Ord. 1976 c. 6; CBC 1985 2-13.1)
2-13.2   Form of Fiscal Note.
   A fiscal note may consist of one or more sheets, but each sheet shall be in
substantially the following form:
 
   CITY OF BOSTON
   FISCAL NOTE
 
   Docket number (here insert docket number of proposed order or ordinance); date
of referral (date of referral to committee); date due (date two weeks from date of
referral); date of return (date fiscal note is returned to City Clerk); subject
(here insert general area of concern of proposed order or ordinance).
 
   I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the total cost of Docket
Number (here insert above docket number) over the initial five-year period of its
implementation will not exceed $25,000. (If the above statement is correct, the
Deputy Director of Administrative Services for Fiscal Affairs shall affix his or
her signature in the space provided. If the above statement is not correct, the
Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs shall complete the remainder of the sheet.)
 
   The estimated cost of Docket number (here insert above docket number) over the
initial five-year period of its implementation exceeds $25,000.
 
(Ord. 1976 c. 6; CBC 1985 2-13.2)
2-13.3   Information and Procedures.
   (A)   The information required by Section 2-13 of the Revised Ordinances of
1985, as amended, is as follows:
 
FISCAL NOTE WORKSHEET
 
(The aforementioned worksheet shall include a total amount of estimated
expenditures of the proposed order or ordinance for the initial five-year
period of implementation and shall also include a breakdown under headings Year
1, Year 2, Year 3, Year 4 and Year 5 of tabulations of the estimated
expenditures of said proposal throughout the initial five-year period of
implementation. The estimated expenditures of the proposed order or ordinance
shall be categorized under the headings entitled) 1. Estimated total cost of
proposal; (subdivision) A. personal services, B. contractual services, C.
supplies and materials, D. current charges and obligations, E. equipment, F.
structures and improvements, G. land and nonstructural improvements; 2. portion
of financing provided by (subdivision) A. city funds, B. state funds, C.
federal funds, D. Other funds (with accompanying explanation).
   If substantial increases or decreases in any of the above categories are
expected to occur after the initial five-year period, please outline and
explain (here respondent shall explain any such expected increases or
decreases).
 
   Attach actuarial data when relevant.
 
   (The Deputy Director of Administrative Services for Fiscal Affairs shall
here affix his or her signature in the space provided if he or she has not
already certified the above portion.)
 
   (B)   Upon referral of any proposed order or ordinance to Committee, the
City Clerk shall forthwith provide a copy of the proposed order or ordinance
and a form entitled “Fiscal Note”, with the appropriate matter required by the
first three paragraphs of the foregoing form printed or inserted thereon, to
the Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs. The fiscal note shall be prepared by
the Budget Division in cooperation with the Departments, Agencies or
governmental units to be affected by the order or ordinance. The Deputy
Director for Fiscal Affairs shall return the proposed order or ordinance with
the fiscal note attached, to the City Clerk within a period of two weeks from
the date of referral of the proposed order or ordinance to Committee. The City
Clerk shall forward the fiscal note to the appropriate Committee, from which
time the fiscal note shall be permanently attached to the order or ordinance
and shall be a matter of public record. Upon receipt of the fiscal note, the
Chair of the Committee shall request of the sponsor(s) of the order or
ordinance any comment regarding the contents of the fiscal note.
   (C)   If, for any reason, the Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs is unable
to prepare the fiscal note within two weeks from the date of referral to
committee of the proposed order or ordinance, the Deputy Director for Fiscal
Affairs shall so inform the City Clerk, whereupon a meeting of the Executive
Committee of the Boston City Council shall be called for one hour following the
commencement of the next regularly scheduled Boston City Council meeting and at
which the Deputy Director for Fiscal Affairs shall appear and state his or her
reasons for failure to present the fiscal note. The Boston City Council, at its
discretion, may grant an extension of time to the Deputy Director for Fiscal
Affairs for preparation of the fiscal note, or may employ its powers under
Section 17F of Chapter 452 of the Acts of 1948, as amended, or any other
authority vested in the Boston City Council to assist the Deputy Director for
Fiscal Affairs in the preparation of the fiscal note.
   (D)   The requirement to prepare a fiscal note shall be deemed waived if
two-thirds of the members of the Boston City Council so vote.
(Ord. 1976 c. 6; CBC 1985 2-13.3)
2-14   STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
2-14.1   Title and Purpose.
   This Section shall be known as the “Statement of Financial Interests
Ordinance”. The purpose of this Section is to ensure that all City Councillors
are fully reporting their relevant financial interests on a yearly basis. Such
disclosures are in the interest of transparency and good governance and will
help to prevent conflict of interest problems.
(CBC 1985 2-14.1; Ord. 2009 c. 2)
2-14.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
franchise, association, organization, holding company, joint stock company,
receivership, business or real estate trust or any other legal entity organized
for profit or charitable purposes.
   BUSINESS TRUST. A business (or “Commonwealth”) trust generally organized
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 182, or some other similar statue, for the purpose
of conducting a business. It is similar to a corporation in that its ownership
interest is generally divided into transferable shares or certificates which
are held by the beneficiaries. These beneficiaries are similar to a
corporation’s stockholders. See also “trust”.
   CHARITABLE TRUST. A type of business trust, generally a not-for-profit
entity organized for charitable trust purposes such as supporting certain
educational, scientific or religious goals. The provisions of a CHARITABLE
TRUST are usually enforceable by the Attorney General and such trusts are
sometimes tax-exempt pursuant to I.R.C. 501(c)(3). See also “trust”.
   DEBT. Loan or liability and all collateral associated therewith, excluding
installment loans, educational loans, medical and dental bills, credit card
purchases, support or alimony obligations or debt owed in the ordinary course
and day-to-day operations of running a business.
   DIRECT INTEREST IN LEGISLATION, LEGISLATIVE ACTION OR A MATTER BEFORE THE
CITY COUNCIL. 
      (1)   When a person has an interest in, at any time during the relevant
calendar year:
         (a)   The use or value of his or her property;
         (b)   The conduct of his or her business; or
         (c)   The use or value of the property of or the conduct of the
business of a person with which he or she is affiliated as an employee,
Officer, Director, Trustee, general partner, proprietor or in a similar
managerial capacity, that could be or was affected by legislation, legislative
action or a matter before the Boston City Council, unless the effect is not
substantially greater than the effect generally on persons residing in the
commonwealth.
      (2)   Any business, which is regulated by the Boston City Council has
such an interest.
   EQUITY. Any stock, partnership share, beneficial trust interest,
proprietorship interest or similar ownership interest in a business.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The value that a willing buyer would pay a willing seller
for property in an arm’s-length transaction. The FAIR MARKET VALUE can be
determined in several acceptable ways including an actual sale or a certified
valuation by an independent accountant.
   FAMILY TRUST. A trust that is generally organized by a family member on
behalf of some other family member to protect assets from being used by the
beneficiaries (except as permitted by the trust’s provisions). A FAMILY TRUST
may be created by a written document, but need not be. See also Trust.
Depending on the nature of the trust, the beneficiary may have either a
“present interest” (a right to trust assets now) or a “future interest” (for
example, an interest that will not occur until someone’s death). A “future
interest” may be further classified as either “vested” or “contingent”, meaning
that the interest may or may not be certain to occur at some future point.
Generally, if you have the right to receive any of the assets of the trust
right now, you have a “present” interest in those assets. Accordingly, you
would have to report ownership of those assets if valued at $1,000 or more. On
the other hand, if you do not have the right to receive any of the assets of
the trust right now, you do not have a “present” interest in those assets.
Accordingly, you would not have to report anything about those assets.
   GIFTS. Anything given when full value is not returned for what was received
and may include payment, entertainment, subscription, advance, discount or
services having in the aggregate a fair market value in excess of $100. This
does not include gifts from a spouse, immediate family or close family
(parents, grandparents, children, siblings) member nor does it include
political contribution which must be otherwise disclosed in accordance with
relevant laws.
   HONORARIA. A payment of money or anything of value as consideration for an
appearance, speech, article or the like.
   INCOME. Any income from whatever source derived including a fee, salary,
allowance, forbearance, forgiveness, interest, dividend, royalty, rent, capital
gain or any other form of recompense or any combination thereof. Excluded only
are the following:
      (1)   Interest from savings accounts and certificates of deposit;
      (2)   Interest from governmental obligations other than those of the
commonwealth or any political subdivision or any public Agency or authority
created by the commonwealth’s legislature;
      (3)   Alimony and support payments;
      (4)   Proceeds from a life insurance policy;
      (5)   Interest or dividends from money market funds; retirement or
disability benefits profit-sharing plans, 401(k) plans; and
      (6)   Social Security payments.
   INVESTMENT. Any tangible or intangible property, whether personal property
or realty, held primarily for the purpose of attaining an economic advantage,
whether directly (as in the case of income or appreciation) or indirectly (as
in the case of tax shelters). Excluded from this definition are, for example,
properties held chiefly for enjoyment, certain retirement plans, profit-sharing
plans, 401(k) plans, insurance policies and your primary residence.
   LEGISLATIVE AGENT. Any person who for compensation or reward does any act to
promote, oppose or influence legislation or to promote or oppose or influence
the governor’s approval or veto thereof or to influence the decision of any
member of the executive branch where such decision concerns legislation or the
adoption, defeat, of postponement of a standard, rate, rule or regulation
pursuant thereto. The term shall include persons who, as any part of their
regular and usual employment and not simply incidental thereto, attempt to
promote, oppose or influence legislation or the governor’s approval or veto
thereof, whether or not any compensation in addition to the salary for such
employment is received for such services.
   PERSON. A business, individual, corporation, union, association, firm,
partnership, committee or other organization or groups of persons.
   REALTY TRUST. A type of business trust generally organized for the primary
purpose of buying, selling, holding or investing real property usually created
by a written instrument. These trusts are sometimes also REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT
TRUSTS or REITS. See also “trust”.
   REIMBURSEMENT. A payment for money expended or to be expended (for example,
travel, meals or lodging), which is for actual expenses incurred or to be
incurred reasonably related to the event to which they are connected.
   SECURITY. Any note, stock, bond, debenture, evidence of a debt owed to you
or to your spouse, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-
sharing arrangement, certificate of interest in any mutual fund, stock or
commodity option or similar evidence of ownership or interest, or a receipt or
certificate of deposit for, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase,
any of the foregoing.
   TAX SHELTER. Any device used by taxpayer to reduce or to defer payment of
taxes. TAX SHELTERS organized either as a business or as an investment and are
reportable on Statements of Financial Interests as such. Retirement plans are
not considered TAX SHELTERS and are generally not reportable.
   TRUST. A legal entity in which the actual (or “beneficial”) ownership of
property is separated from its legal ownership. The legal ownership is held by
a trustee who owes certain duties to the beneficiaries. Those duties usually
arise by a written document (a “Declaration of Trust”, for example).
(CBC 1985 2-14.2; Ord. 2009 c. 2)
2-14.3   Statement of Financial Interests.
   (A)   All City Councillors must file an annual Statement of Financial
Interests with the City Clerk on or before June 1 of each calendar year for the
preceding calendar year. The forms for such Statements will be provided by the
City Clerk and all Councillors must fill out the forms in their entirety.
   (B)   Information required to be provided in the Statement of Financial
Interest shall include the following:
      (1)   The Councillor’s name and home address and the name of the
Councillor’s spouse if he or she resides with the Councillor;
      (2)   Any other governmental position(s) held by the Councillor and the
Councillor’s spouse in any federal, commonwealth, county, district or municipal
Agency, compensated or uncompensated, full- or part-time in the relevant
calendar year, income of Councillor’s position(s) must be disclosed, but not
the income of the Councillor’s spouse;
      (3)   Each business, including non-profit organizations, with which the
Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse were associated in the relevant calendar
year as an employee, or as a partner, proprietor, director or in any managerial
capacity, full- or part-time, compensated or uncompensated, income of
Councillor’s position(s) must be disclosed, but not the income of the
Councillor’s spouse;
      (4)   Any business, the equity of which the Councillor and/or the
Councillor’s spouse owned more than 1% during the relevant calendar year; the
Councillor’s percentage ownership must be disclosed, but not the percentage
ownership of the Councillor’s spouse;
      (5)   Any equity in a business with which the Councillor is associated
which the Councillor transferred to the Councillor’s spouse within the relevant
calendar year;
      (6)   Any business with which the Councillor was previously associated
with which the Councillor had an understanding in the relevant calendar year
with regard to future employment;
      (7)   Any gifts, honoraria and reimbursements received by the Councillor
or the Councillor’s spouse during the relevant calendar year; the Councillor’s
spouse must report the gift, honoraria and reimbursement only if the source was
a legislative Agent and does not need to report the amount; the Councillor must
report the gift only if the Boston City Council regulates the source, or if the
source had or has a direct interest in a matter, legislation or legislative
action before the Boston City Council;
      (8)   Any security with a fair market value of $1,000 or more, issued by
the commonwealth, any public Agency or any municipality, owned by the
Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse and any income received by the Councillor
in the relevant calendar year in excess of $1,000;
      (9)   Any security and other investments with a fair market value greater
than $1,000 beneficially owned by the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse for
any part of the relevant calendar year;
      (10)   Any interest held by the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse in
a trust as of January 1 of the relevant calendar year, including business,
charitable, family and/or realty trusts;
      (11)   Any real property in the commonwealth with an assessed value
greater than $1,000 in which the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse held an
interest in as of December 31 of the relevant calendar year;
      (12)   Any real property in the commonwealth or out-of-state, including
time shares, with an assessed value of $1,000 or more, held for investment or
rental purposes, which the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse had a direct
or indirect financial interest as of December 31 of the relevant calendar year;
      (13)   Any real property interest in the commonwealth which was
purchased, sold or otherwise transferred to or from the Councillor and/or the
Councillor’s spouse any time during the relevant calendar year;
      (14)   Any mortgage loan including second mortgage loans and home equity
loans in excess of $1,000 outstanding on December 31 of the relevant calendar
year for which the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse was obligated;
      (15)   Any parcel of real estate on which the Councillor or the
Councillor’s spouse held a mortgage in the relevant calendar year, including
the name of the issuer and the assessed value;
      (16)   Certain debt, loan or other liability in excess of $1,000 owed by
the Councillor or the Councillor’s spouse on December 31 of the relevant
calendar year; and
      (17)   Any creditor who, during the relevant calendar year, forgave
indebtedness in excess of $1,000 owed by the Councillor or the Councillor’s
spouse.
(CBC 1985 2-14.3; Ord. 2009 c. 2)
2-14.4   Penalties and Enforcement.
   Any Councillor who knowingly files a false Statement of Financial Interests
and fails to cure any falsity shall be punished by a fine of $300. Any
Councillor who fails to file an annual Statement of Financial Interests or
fails to fill out the form in its entirety shall receive a written warning by
the City Clerk notifying them of their failure. Failure to file a Statement of
Financial Interests or complete any filed Statement of Financial Interests
within 30 days of receiving the City Clerk’s written warning shall result in a
fine of $300 for each month the Councillor fails to file. However, any
Councillor who becomes aware of an error or needs to amend a previously filed
Statement of Financial Interests shall be able to make such a cure at any time
without penalty.
(CBC 1985 2-14.4; Ord. 2009 c. 2)
2-15   LOBBYIST REGISTRATION AND REGULATION.
2-15.1   Title and Purpose.
   This Section shall be known as the “Lobbyist Registration and Regulation
Ordinance”. The purpose of this Section is to promote good governance and to
ensure transparency in government by requiring registration and disclosure of
lobbying activities; to create fairness and consistency by applying the same
rules to all persons engaged in lobbying activities; and to reinforce the
community’s trust in the integrity of its government by guaranteeing
convenient, timely access to information about attempts to influence the
government’s decisions.
(CBC 1985 2-15.1; Ord. 2018 c. 9 § 1)
2-15.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION. Any decision on, or any proposal, consideration,
enactment or making of any rule, regulation or any other official
nonministerial action or non-action by any Executive Department, or by any
employee of an Executive Department on any matter which is within the official
jurisdiction of the executive branch, or any matter within the official
jurisdiction of any city employee.
   CITY EMPLOYEE. An employee of the city, including a person holding elected
Office; employees of the Mayor, of the Boston City Council and employees of the
Departments of the city; members of City Commissions and Boards; and any other
individual or group of individuals specifically authorized by law, including
any appointed, non-employee member of any City Agency, including an employee of
the Boston Redevelopment Authority, d/b/a the Boston Planning and Development
Agency, the Economic Development Industrial Corporation, the Boston Public
Health Commission, Boston Licensing Board or Boston Water and Sewer Commission.
   CLIENT. Any person, corporation, partnership, association, organization,
including not-for-profit, or other entity that retains, employs or designates
any person or organization to carry on lobbying activities on behalf of such
client.
   LEGISLATIVE ACTION. The introduction, sponsorship, consideration, debate,
amendment, passage, defeat, approval, veto or other official action or non-
action on any ordinance, resolution, motion, order, appointment, application or
other matter pending or proposed in the Boston City Council or any Committee or
Subcommittee thereof.
   LOBBYING or LOBBYING ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Any attempt to influence:
         (a)   Any legislative action made by the Boston City Council or any
member thereof with respect to the introduction, passage, defeat or substance
of any local legislation or resolution;
         (b)   Any administrative action made by the Mayor to support, oppose,
approve or disapprove any local legislation or resolution, whether or not such
legislation or resolution has been introduced in the Boston City Council;
         (c)   Any decision or administrative action made by an employee of the
city with respect to the procurement of goods, services or construction,
including the preparation of contract specifications, or the solicitation,
award or administration of a contract, or with respect to the solicitation,
award or administration of a grant, loan or agreement involving the
disbursement of public monies;
         (d)   Any decision made by the Mayor, the Boston City Council or city
employee with respect to the approval, denial or postponement of a decision
concerning the development of real property or zoning, including zoning
approval; and/or
         (e)   Any legislative or administrative action concerning the
adoption, defeat or postponement of a standard, rate, rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to any local or special law; the adoption or rejection of
a policy position. For purposes of these Sections and Subsection policy, shall
mean a plan or course of action which is applicable to a class of persons,
proceedings or other matters and which is designed to influence or determine
the subsequent decisions and actions of any city employee, including, but not
limited to, a plan or course of action which would constitute a regulation. The
term shall not include the adjudication or determination of any rights, duties
or obligations of a person made on a case by case basis, including, but not
limited to, the issuance or denial of a license, permit or certification or a
disciplinary action or investigation involving a person.
      (2)   LOBBYING or LOBBYING ACTIVITIES shall not include the following:
         (a)   A request for a meeting, a request for the status of an action
or any similar administrative request, if the request does not include an
attempt to influence a city employee;
         (b)   An act made in the course of participation in an Advisory
Committee or Task Force;
         (c)    Providing information in writing in response to a written
request for specific information by a city employee;
         (d)   An individual expressing an opinion, filing a complaint or tip,
seeking information or advice or requesting constituent services regarding a
matter that does not involve possible financial benefit to the individual or a
business with which the individual is involved or whose interests the
individual is representing;
         (e)   An individual expressing an opinion, filing a complaint or tip,
seeking information or advice or requesting constituent services regarding a
matter that involves possible benefits to the individual’s owner-occupied home;
         (f)   An act required by subpoena, civil investigative demand or
otherwise compelled by statute, regulation or other action;
         (g)   A communication made to a city employee or Official with regard
to the status of a judicial proceeding or a criminal or civil law enforcement
inquiry, investigation or proceeding; or an act made in compliance with written
Board or Agency procedures regarding an adjudicatory proceeding or evidentiary
proceedings conducted by any Department, Board, Commission or employee;
Attorneys, Consultants or Advocates representing a client solely in an
appearance at a publicly noticed meeting of a City Board or Commission,
including Boards or Commissions of Agencies made up of employees as defined in
Subsection 2-15.2;
         (h)   A petition for action by the city made in writing and required
to be a matter of public record pursuant to established procedures of the city;
         (i)   Any act done in furtherance of obtaining a non-discretionary
city approval, such as applying for a permit or license;
         (j)   An act made on behalf of an individual with regard to that
individual’s benefits, employment or other personnel matters;
         (k)   A response to a request for proposals or similar public
invitation by a city employee for information relevant to a contract; provided,
however, that any communication to a city employee seeking to encourage the
city to procure a particular type of item or service, or to consider a
particular vendor, is a lobbying communication not subject to this exception;
         (l)   Participation in a bid conference;
         (m)   An appeal or request for review of a procurement decision;
         (n)   Designated union representatives negotiating a collective
bargaining agreement with city representatives, and unions communicating with
their members;
         (o)   Newspapers and other periodicals and radio stations and
television stations, and owners and employees thereof; provided that their
activities are limited to the gathering or dissemination of news items,
editorials or other comment or paid advertisements; and/or
         (p)   Persons who participate as witnesses, attorneys or other
representatives in public rule making or rate making proceedings of an entity
covered by these provisions.
   LOBBYING ENTITY. An organization, including not-for-profits and political
action committees, engaging in lobbying activities, consisting of at least one
lobbyist, including foreign or domestic corporation, association, sole
proprietor, partnership, limited liability partnership or company, joint stock
company, joint venture or any other similar business formation.
   LOBBYIST. Every person retained, employed or designated by any client or
lobbying entity, with or without compensation to engage in lobbying or lobbying
activities, The term LOBBYIST shall not include any Officer or employee of the
city, the commonwealth, any political subdivision of the commonwealth or any
legislatively-created Corporation, Authority, Agency or Commission, or the
United States when discharging his or her official duties. The term LOBBYIST
shall not include any uncompensated volunteer of a not-for-profit entity who
seeks to influence legislative or administrative action solely on behalf of
that entity.
   MUNICIPAL LOBBYING COMPLIANCE COMMISSION. The Commission established in
Subsection 2-15.4.
   PROCUREMENT. The buying, purchasing, renting, leasing or otherwise acquiring
or disposing, by contract or otherwise, of supplies, services or construction,
or the acquisition or disposition of real property or any interest therein,
including, but not limited to, the purchase, lease or rental of any such real
property or the granting of easements or rights of way therein.
(CBC 1985 2-15.2; Ord. 2018 c. 9 § 1)
2-15.3   Registration and Reporting Requirements.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall keep a record containing all information required
to be filed under this Section, which shall be in the form of an electronic
database that shall be open and accessible for public inspection. The penalty
for a late statement shall be in the amount of $50 per day up to the twentieth
day and an additional $100 per day for every day after the twentieth day until
the statement is filed.
   (B)   Each lobbyist, lobbying entity and client retaining the services of a
lobbyist shall file an annual registration statement with the City Clerk on
forms it prescribes and provides. The annual registration statement shall be
completed not later than December 15 of the year preceding the registration
year, except that any person or entity that first qualifies as a lobbyist,
lobbying entity or client after January 1 of the registration year shall
register within ten days after so qualifying.
   (C)   The annual filing fee for a lobbying entity to register shall be $300.
The annual filing fee for a client shall be $150. The annual filing fee for a
lobbyist shall be $150. The City Clerk may, in its discretion and upon written
request, waive the filing fees for a not-for-profit client, a lobbying entity
which registers to exclusively represent not-for-profit clients, a client that
employs fewer than ten persons and has been in business for fewer than five
years, or a lobbyist that registers to exclusively represent such client.
   (D)   (1)   No later than January 20, April 20, July 20 and October 20 of
each year, every lobbyist shall provide to the City Clerk a statement, under
oath, listing:
         (a)   All campaign contributions as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 55,
Section 1;
         (b)   The identification of each client for whom the lobbyist provided
lobbying activities or services;
         (c)   Names of pieces of legislation, legislative action,
administrative action or the decisions of city employees that the lobbyist
acted to promote, oppose or influence;
         (d)   A statement of the lobbyist’s position, if any, on each such
piece of legislation, legislative action, administrative action or decision;
and
         (e)   The identification of the client or clients on whose behalf the
lobbyist was acting with respect to each such piece of legislation, legislative
action or decision.
      (2)   The disclosure shall be required regardless of whether the lobbyist
specifically referenced the particular piece of legislation or other decision
while acting to promote, oppose or influence it.
   (E)   No later than January 20, April 20, July 20 and October 20 of each
year, every lobbying entity and client shall provide to the City Clerk a
statement, under oath, listing:
      (1)   All campaign contributions as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 55, Section
1;
      (2)   Whether he or she is receiving compensation for the lobbying
activities;
      (3)   Expenditures incurred or paid separately by such lobbying entity or
client during the reporting period in connection with each decision,
legislation, legislative action or administrative action of a city employee
that it sought to promote, oppose or influence and the total amount thereof
incurred or paid separately by such lobbying entity or client during the
reporting period.
   (F)   Statements provided under this Section shall be postmarked or
electronically filed, as determined by the City Clerk, no later than the
prescribed date.
(CBC 1985 2-15.3; Ord. 2018 c. 9 § 1; Ord. 2020 c. 1)
2-15.4   Municipal Lobbying Compliance Commission; Penalties and Enforcement.
   (A)   There shall be a Municipal Lobbying Compliance Commission
(“Commission”) comprising five Commissioners to be appointed by the Mayor after
a public hearing to be held by the Boston City Council, so long as one is an
attorney with experience in public ethics law, the City Clerk, or their
designee, the Boston City Council President or such other Councilor designated,
from time to time, by the Boston City Council President, and two members
selected at-large by the Mayor. The Boston City Council President and the City
Clerk, or their designees, shall serve ex officio. The purpose of the
Commission shall be to investigate and make findings, pursuant to the following
provisions, relative to compliance with the Lobbyist Registration and
Regulation Ordinance.
   (B)   All Commissioners, with the exception of the Boston City Council
President and the City Clerk, shall serve coterminous with the Mayor and any
vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor of the city for the unexpired term. The
Commissioners shall annually elect a Commission Chair. Commissioners shall
serve without compensation and shall be classified as Special Municipal
Employees for purposes of the commonwealth’s Ethics Law, M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (C)   Subpoena power shall be exercised by the Chairperson of the
Commission, or his or her designee, upon majority vote of the Commission. All
proceedings under this Section shall be conducted pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter
30A.
   (D)   (1)   Within 30 days after completion of deliberations, the Commission
shall publish a written report of its findings and conclusions. Upon a finding
that there has been a violation, the Commission may issue an order:
         (a)   Requiring the violator to cease and desist such violation;
         (b)   Requiring the violator to file any report required pursuant to
this Act;
         (c)   Suspending the violator for a specified period from engaging in
any lobbying communications or revoking violator’s registration; and
         (d)   Requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not more than
$300 per day for each violation.
      (2)   The Commission may file a civil action in superior court to enforce
this order. The Commission shall order the City Clerk to issue and collect
civil penalties on its behalf.
   (E)   The Commission shall automatically disqualify any person convicted of
a felony in violation of M.G.L. Chapter 3, Chapter 55 or Chapter 268A from
acting or registering as a lobbying agent for a period of ten years from the
date of conviction.
   (F)   The Commission shall have authority to promulgate regulations for the
administration of this act.
(CBC 1985 2-15.4; Ord. 2018 c.9 § 1)
2-15.5   Exemption from Regulations for Certain Public Employees.
   This Section shall not apply to employees or agents of the federal
government or any Agency thereof, the commonwealth, or of a city, town,
district or regional school district who are acting in their capacity as such
employees or agents. This Section also shall not apply to any person requested
to appear before the Boston City Council or a Committee thereof; provided that
such person performs no other act to influence legislation; and provided
further, that the name of such person be recorded in the official records of
the Boston City Council or a Committee thereof.
(CBC 1985 2-15.5; Ord. 2018 c.9 § 1)
CHAPTER III: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
   No ordinances apply. See statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T3; CBC 1985 Ch. III)
CHAPTER IV: CONTRACTS
Section
4-1   DESIGNER SELECTION BOARD
   
4-1.1   Definitions
   
4-1.2   Membership Regulations and Procedures of the Board
   
4-1.3   Failure to Comply With Regulations and Procedures
   
4-1.4   Severability Clause
4-2   TO ENABLE CITY DEPARTMENTS TO GIVE PREFERENCE TO CITY FIRMS IN THE
PURCHASE OF CERTAIN GOODS AND SERVICES
   
4-2.1   Definition
   
4-2.2   City Firms Bid; Mayor’s Permission Required to Award Contract
   
4-2.3   Mayor to Refer to Committee
   
4-2.4   Mayor to Notify Boston City Council; Time Required
4-3   TASK FORCE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
   
4-3.1   Purpose
   
4-3.2   Composition and Term
   
4-3.3   Meetings
   
4-3.4   Reporting
   
4-3.5   Sunset Clause
4-4   PROMOTING MINORITY AND WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN THE CITY
   
4-4.1   Findings
   
4-4.2   Definitions
   
4-4.31   Supplier Diversity Program
   
4-4.32   Affirmative Marketing Policy
   
4-4.33   RFP Policy
   
4-4.4   Policy Implementation
   
4-4.5   Compliance and Enforcement
   
4-4.6   Data Collection
   
4-4.7   Waiver
   
4-4.8   Conformity with Existing Commonwealth and Federal Law
   
4-4.9   Severability
   
4-4.10   Effective Date
4-5   REQUIRING HARMONY IN CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
   
4-5.1   Policy Statement
   
4-5.2   Continuance of this Section Until Repealed
4-6   EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION OF CONSULTANTS
   
4-6.1   Definitions
   
4-6.2   Replacement of Unionized Employees by Consultant or Contractor
Contracts Prohibited
   
4-6.3   Restriction on Hiring of Consultants to Supervise City Employees
   
4-6.4   Effective Date
4-7   CORI SCREENING BY VENDORS OF THE CITY
   
4-7.1   Purpose
   
4-7.2   Definitions
   
4-7.3   CORI-Related Standards of the City
   
4-7.4   Waiver
   
4-7.5   Data Collection and Report
   
4-7.6   Applicability
   
4-7.7   Regulatory Authority
   
4-7.8   Severability
   
4-7.9   Implementation
4-8   REQUIRING CITY VENDORS TO SAFEGUARD UNPROTECTED ROAD USERS
   
4-8.1   Purpose
   
4-8.2   Definitions
   
4-8.3   Requirements for Large Vehicles
   
4-8.4   Policy Implementation
   
4-8.5   Technical Specifications for the Equipment of Lateral Protective
Devices, Convex Mirrors and Convex Cross-over Mirrors and Safety Decals
   
4-8.6   Compliance and Enforcement
   
4-8.7   Waiver
   
4-8.8   Conformity with Existing Commonwealth and Federal Law
   
4-8.9   Severability
   
4-8.10   Effective Date
4-9   REQUIRING CITY DEPARTMENTS AND VENDORS TO ADOPT GOOD FOOD PURCHASING
STANDARDS
   
4-9.1   Purpose
   
4-9.2   Requirements for Departments and Agencies
   
4-9.3   Transparency
   
4-9.4   Community Advisory Council
   
4-9.5   Reporting
   
4-9.6   Severability
4-1   DESIGNER SELECTION BOARD.
4-1.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity applying to perform design services, the
principal personnel responsible for the provision of such services for the
project and the persons who will be the principal staff for the project.
   BOARD. The Designer Selection Board.
   CONSTRUCTION MANAGER. Any Designer or any other corporation, partnership,
individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture or other
entity engaged in the practice of construction management or construction
scheduling.
   CONTINUED SERVICES. Authorization for a Designer who has been appointed for
one stage of a project to act as the Designer for a succeeding stage or stages
of the same project.
   DESIGN SERVICES. Any of the following services provided by any Designer,
programmer or Construction Manager in connection with any public building
project:
      (1)   Preparation of master plans, studies, surveys, soil tests, cost
estimates or programs;
      (2)   Preparation of drawings, plans or specifications, including, but
not limited to, schematic drawings, preliminary plans and specifications,
working plans and specifications or other administration of construction
contracts documents;
      (3)   Supervision or administration of a construction contract; or
      (4)   Construction management or scheduling.
   DESIGNER. An individual, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture or other entity engaged in the practice of
architecture, landscape architecture or engineering, which satisfies the
following:
      (1)   If an individual, the individual is a registered architect,
landscape architect or engineer;
      (2)   If a partnership, a majority of all the partners are persons who
are registered architects, landscape architects or engineers;
      (3)   If a corporation, sole proprietorship, joint stock company or other
entity, the majority of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are persons
who are registered architects, landscape architects or engineers, and the
person to have the project in his or her charge is registered in the discipline
required for the project; and
      (4)   If a joint venture, each joint venturer satisfies the requirements
of this Section.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Administrative Services.
   EXTENDED SERVICES. Authorization for a Designer who has been appointed to
provide design services for a project to act as Designer for work to be done on
another project not originally included in that Designer’s contract.
   MAYOR. The Mayor or persons designated by him or her.
   PROGRAMMER. Any Designer or any other individual, corporation, partnership,
sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture or other entity engaged
in the preparation of architecture facility programs or studies.
   USING AGENCY. A Department, Agency, Board, Commission, Authority or other
instrumentality of the city.
(CBC 1981 c. 21 § 1; CBC 1985 4-1.1)
4-1.2   Membership Regulations and Procedures of the Board.
   (A)   Appointment of members; terms. There shall be located within the
Administrative Services Department a Designer, Selection Board, consisting of
five members. Four members shall be appointed by the Mayor within 60 days of
the effective date of this Section, as follows: one from three candidates
nominated by the Boston Society of Architects, one from three candidates
nominated by the commonwealth’s Society of Professional Engineers, one from
three candidates nominated by the Boston Municipal Research Bureau, one from
three candidates nominated by the Boston Society of Civil Engineers and the
Director of Administrative Services ex officio. The nominee of the Boston
Society of Civil Engineers shall be appointed for a term of two years, of the
Boston Municipal Research Bureau for a term of three years, of the
commonwealth’s Society of Professional Engineers for a term of four years and
of the Boston Society of Architects for a term of five years. As the term of
any Commissioner expires, his or her successor shall be appointed for a term of
five years. Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board shall
elect each year one member to serve as the Chair. The Director of
Administrative Services shall serve as the secretary thereof and shall keep all
records of the Board. The Board shall not be subject to the supervision or
control of the Administrative Services Board or any member thereof and shall,
on or before the last Monday of January, 1982, and annually thereafter, make a
report of its proceedings and votes to the City Council.
   (B)   Jurisdiction and duties. The Board shall have jurisdiction over the
selection of all Designers, programmers and Construction Managers performing
design services in connection with any building projects for all City
Departments.
   (C)   Public notice.
      (1)   Each contract for Designer services for a project subject to the
jurisdiction of the Board shall be publicly advertised by the Board in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, local minority papers and in such
places as the Board requires by regulation, at least two weeks before the
deadline for filing applications.
      (2)   The public notice required by the above shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the project, including the specific Designer
services sought, the estimated construction cost and the time period within
which the project is to be completed;
         (b)   If there is a program for the project, a statement of when and
where the program will be available for inspection by applicants, and when and
where a briefing session will be held for applicants, if one is required by the
Board’s regulations and if there is not a program for the project, a statement
to the effect;
         (c)   The qualification required of applicants for the projects; and
         (d)   The categories of Designers, consultants, if any, for which
applicants must list the names of consultants which the applicant may choose to
use;
         (e)   Whether the fee has been set or will be negotiated, and if the
fee has been set, the amount of the fee.
   (D)   Filing of Designer’s statement. No Designer, Programmer or
Construction Manager may file an application for any project subject to the
Board’s jurisdiction unless having first filed with the Board a written
statement containing the following information:
      (1)   Certification that the applicant legal entity, if applying to
perform design services other than preparation of studies, surveys, soil
testing, cost estimates or programs, is a Designer or Construction Manager;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all partners, if a partnership, of all
Officers, Directors and all persons with an ownership interest of more than 5%
in the applicant if not a partnership;
      (3)   The registration number and status of each such person in every
jurisdiction in which such person has ever been registered as an architect,
landscape architect or engineer;
      (4)   A list of all projects for all public Agencies within the
commonwealth for which the applicant has performed or has entered into a
contract to perform design services within the five-year period immediately
preceding the filing of the information required in this Section;
      (5)   A list of all current projects for which the applicant is
performing or is under contract to perform any design services; and
      (6)   If the applicant is a joint venture, the information required in
this Section shall be required for each joint venturer, as well as for the
joint venture itself.
   (E)   Statement required to be current. The Board shall keep a permanent
record of the statements filed pursuant to this Section and shall require the
statements to be made current on a regular basis, and that statements pursuant
to divisions (D)(5) and (D)(6) above be current with each application filed.
   (F)   Statement of experience and qualifications. An applicant to perform
design, programming or construction management services on a project may be
required to file, in addition to the statement required under division (D)
above, a written application as prescribed by the Board, relating to the
applicant’s experience, ability and qualifications.
   (G)   Swearing to statements. Every application or statement filed pursuant
to this Section shall be sworn to under penalties of perjury. A Designer,
Programmer or Construction Manager who has been determined by the Board to have
filed materially false information under this Section shall be disqualified by
the Board from further consideration for any project for such time as the Board
determines is appropriate.
   (H)   Board’s restriction in advertising. The Board shall not advertise for
Designers nor select any finalists to perform any design services other than
the preparation of master plans, studies, surveys, soil tests, cost estimates
or programs unless the Director of Administrative Services certifies: That it
is appropriate to do so and either that a program defining the design services
required has been prepared, and has been approved by the Administrative
Services, or that no program is required by the Administrative Services.
   (I)   Board to adopt written criteria. The Board shall adopt written
applicants’ criteria for selection of semifinalists and finalists based upon
information obtained under division (D) above for each project. The criteria
shall include:
      (1)   Prior similar experience;
      (2)   Past performance on public and private projects;
      (3)   Financial stability;
      (4)   Identity and qualifications of the consultants who will work with
the applicant on the project; and
      (5)   Any other criteria that the Board considers relevant for any
project.
   (J)   Semifinalists. Semifinalists may be chosen for each project. The Board
shall select at least three finalists from among all the applicants, or from
the semifinalists selected under this Section, and in doing so may require all
the applicants or the semifinalists to:
      (1)   Appear for an interview before the Board;
      (2)   Present a written proposal to the Board not including a fee
quotation; or
      (3)   Participate in a design competition held by the Board.
   (K)   List of finalists. 
      (1)   The Board shall transmit a list of the chosen finalists to the
Mayor. No person or firm disqualified pursuant to division (D) above, or
debarred pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 44C, shall be so included as a
finalist.
      (2)   The list shall rank the finalists in order of qualification and
include a record of the final vote of the Board on the selection; and include a
written statement explaining the Board’s reason for its choice and its ranking
of the finalists.
   (L)   Disqualification of Board Member. For the purpose of this Section, and
subject to the penalties therein, no member of the Board shall participate in
the selection of a Designer as a finalist or semifinalist for any project if
the member or any member of his or her immediate family has a direct or
indirect financial interest in the award of the design contract to any
applicant:
      (1)   Is currently or has ever been employed by, or is currently a
consultant to or under contract to an applicant;
      (2)   Is negotiating or has an arrangement concerning future employment
or contracting with any applicant; or
      (3)   Has an ownership interest in, or is an Officer or Director of any
applicant.
   (M)   Fee set by city prior to selection of Designer. 
      (1)   In the selection of a Designer when the fee for design services has
been set by the city prior to the selection process, the Mayor shall appoint a
Designer from among the list transmitted to him or her under division (K)
above. If the Mayor appoints any Designer other than the one ranked first by
the Board, he or she shall file a written justification of the appointment with
the Board.
      (2)   When the fee for design services is to be negotiated, the Mayor
shall review the list transmitted by the Board, and may exclude any Designer
from the list if a written explanation is filed with the Board. The Mayor shall
then appoint a Designer based on a successful fee negotiation. The Mayor or
persons designated by him or her shall first negotiate with the first-ranked
Designer remaining on the list. Should the Mayor be unable to negotiate a
satisfactory fee with the first-ranked Designer within 30 days, negotiations
shall be terminated and negotiations undertaken with the remaining Designers,
one at a time, in the order in which they were ranked by the Board, until an
agreement is reached. In no event may a fee be negotiated which is higher than
a maximum fee set by the city prior to selection of finalists. Should the Mayor
be unable to negotiate a satisfactory fee with any Designer initially selected
as a finalist by the Board, the Board shall recommend additional finalists in
accordance with the provisions of this Section. The Mayor may require a
finalist with whom a fee is being negotiated to submit a fee proposal and
include with it such information as the Mayor requires to provide current cost
and pricing data on the basis of which the Designer’s fee proposal may be
evaluated.
   (N)   Statement of fees in contract. All fees shall be stated in Designer’s
contracts and in any subsequent amendment thereto as a total dollar amount.
Contracts may provide for equitable adjustments in the event of changes in
scope or services.
   (O)   List of consultants used by applicants. When the Board has required
that applicants list consultants which the applicants may employ, in no event
shall a consultant be used who is debarred pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149,
Section 44C, as amended, and any change in or addition to the consultants named
in the application and allowed by the Board upon appointment must be approved
by the Mayor and reported to the Board, along with a written statement by the
Designer or Construction Manager of the reasons for the change.
   (P)   Truth-in-negotiations certificate. If the Designer’s or Construction
Manager’s fee is negotiated, the Designer or Construction Manager must file a
truth-in-negotiations certificate prior to being awarded the contract by the
Mayor, which must be incorporated into the contract. The certificate must
contain:
      (1)   A statement that the wage rates and other costs used to support the
Designer’s compensation are accurate, complete and current at the time of
contracting; and
      (2)   An agreement that the original contract price and any additions to
the contract may be adjusted within one year of completion of the contract to
exclude any significant amounts if the Mayor determines that the fee was
increased by such amounts due to inaccurate, incomplete or noncurrent wage
rates or other costs.
   (Q)   Special conditions. The Board may specify other special conditions or
requirements in selecting a particular applicant as a finalist. If any change
is made by the applicant after appointment relating to such special conditions
or requirements, the change must be approved by the Mayor and reported to the
Board along with a written statement by the appointee of the reasons for the
change.
   (R)   Eligibility. A Designer or programmer appointed to do a feasibility
study, master plan or program for a project shall be ineligible for appointment
to perform the design services for that project.
   (S)   Gifts and contributions prohibited. Every contract for design services
awarded under this Section shall include the following:
      (1)   Certification that the Designer or Construction Manager has not
given, offered or agreed to give any person, corporation or other entity any
gift, contribution or offer of employment as an inducement for, or in
connection with, the award of the contract for design services;
      (2)   Certification that no consultant to or subcontractor for the
Designer or Construction Manager has given, offered or agreed to give any gift,
contribution or offer of employment to the Designer or Construction Manager, or
to any other person, corporation or entity as an inducement for, or in
connection with, the award to the consultant or subcontractor of a contract by
the Designer or Construction Manager; and
      (3)   Certification that no person, corporation or other entity, other
than a bona fide, full-time employee of the Designer or Construction Manager,
has been retained or hired by the Designer or Construction Manager to solicit
for or in any way assist the Designer or Construction Manager in obtaining the
contract for design services upon an agreement or understanding that such
person, corporation or other entity be paid a fee or consideration contingent
upon the award of the contract to the Designer.
   (T)   Liability insurance. 
      (1)   Contracts for design services shall include a requirement that the
Designer at his or her own expense obtain and maintain a professional liability
insurance policy covering negligent errors, omissions and acts of the Designer
or of any person or business entity for whose performance the Designer is
legally liable arising out of the performance of such contracts for design
services. The Designer shall furnish a certificate or certificates of such
insurance coverage to the city prior to the award of the contract. A
professional liability insurance policy obtained and maintained pursuant to
this division (T) shall provide for coverage in an adequate amount for the
applicable period of limitations and include any added coverage and in such
amounts as the city shall require.
      (2)   At the request of the city, a consultant employed by a Designer
subject to this division (T) shall obtain and maintain a liability insurance
policy covering negligent errors, omissions and acts of such consultant or of
any person or business entity for whose performance the consultant is legally
liable arising out of the performance of the contract of consultant services.
   (U)   Disqualification for false statements. A Designer, Construction
Manager or programmer who has been determined by the Board to have provided
materially false statements or information under this Section shall be
disqualified by the Board from future work on any project for such time as the
Board determines is appropriate.
   (V)   Appointment for continuous or extended service. The Mayor may appoint
a Designer to perform continued or extended services if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   A written statement is filed with the Board explaining the reasons
for the continuation or extension of services;
      (2)   The program for the design services is filed with the Board if one
is required by the regulations of the using Agency; and
      (3)   The Board approves the appointment of the Designer for continued or
extended services and states the reasons therefor.
   (W)   Use of expedited procedures. Whenever the Mayor shall declare that the
health or safety of any persons will be endangered because of the time required
for the selection of a Designer, programmer or Construction Manager by the
procedures prescribed in this Section or whenever a deadline for action is set
on a project by any court or federal Agency which cannot be met if those
selection procedures are followed. Finalist selection may be made by the Board
by expedited procedures adopted by regulation by the Board.
   (X)   Contracts under $10,000. Every contract for design services for any
building construction, reconstruction, alteration, remodeling or repair
estimated not to exceed $10,000 by the city, thereof, shall be awarded
complying with the purposes and intent of this Section, and the following
requirements:
      (1)   The establishment by using Agency of uniform requirements of
information to be submitted by all applicants, a uniform procedure for the
evaluation of all applications to a group of no fewer than three finalists and
the opportunity to be afforded equally to all finalists to provide additional
information to or appear before the selection body;
      (2)   A written explanation of the reasons for selection including the
recorded vote, if any was taken, be made public and recorded with the Designer
Selection Board prior to the notification of award;
      (3)   The provisions of this Section regarding the designation of fees in
the contract; and
      (4)   Provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall be
interpreted to require the establishment of a Board or waive or reduce the
requirements of any other applicable law or regulation.
   (Y)   Adoption of procedures. The Board shall independently adopt procedures
and regulations as necessary to implement expeditiously the requirement of this
Section.
(Ord. 1981 c. 21 § 2; CBC 1985 4-1.2)
4-1.3   Failure to Comply With Regulations and Procedures.
   In the event that any City Official awards a contract for design services
after this Section is in force without complying with the provisions of this
Section, such contract shall not be binding on the city; and the Mayor or City
Council, with the assistance of the Corporation Counsel or Special Counsel,
shall proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover any city funds
expended in accordance with the provision of such contract from the contractor
or the City Official who awarded the contract without compliance herewith.
(Ord. 1981 c. 21 § 3; CBC 1985 4-1.3)
4-1.4   Severability Clause.
   If any portion of this Section is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unlawful, such finding shall not affect any other portion of said
ordinance not specifically so found.
(Ord. 1981 c. 21 § 4; CBC 1985 4-1.4)
4-2   TO ENABLE CITY DEPARTMENTS TO GIVE PREFERENCE TO CITY FIRMS IN THE
PURCHASE OF CERTAIN GOODS AND SERVICES.
4-2.1   Definition.
   For purposes of this Section, the term CITY FIRM shall mean that, for the
term of the contract:
   (A)   In the case of a sole proprietorship, the person’s principal place of
business and residence are located in the city, or a majority of his or her
employees are residents in the city;
   (B)   In the case of a partnership, a majority of the partners reside in the
city, or the principal place of business of the partnership is located in the
city, or a majority of the employees of the partnership reside in the city; and
   (C)   In the case of a corporation, a majority of its shareholders are
residents of the city, or the principal place of business of the corporation is
located in the city, or a majority of the employees of the corporation are
residents of the city.
(Ord. 1979 c. 44 § 1; CBC 1985 4-2.1)
4-2.2   City Firms Bid; Mayor’s Permission Required to Award Contract.
   Whenever any Officer or Board in charge of a Department of the city or
county invites proposals to do any work or make any purchase, except work done
or purchases made in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30, Section 39M, or M.G.L.
Chapter 149, Sections 44A—M, and a responsible and eligible city firm bids a
price no higher than 5% above a non-city firm which is the lowest bidder, said
Officer or Board shall request the Mayor’s permission to award the contract
without further advertising to the city firm.
(Ord. 1979 c. 44 § 2; CBC 1985 4-2.2)
4-2.3   Mayor to Refer to Committee.
   The Mayor shall refer such request to a Committee composed of the Director
of Administrative Services, the Collector-Treasurer and the Corporation
Counsel. If a majority of said Committee recommends the award of the contract
to the city firm notwithstanding that its bid was not the lowest, the Mayor may
approve such award.
(Ord. 1979 c. 44 § 3; CBC 1985 4-2.3)
4-2.4   Mayor to Notify Boston City Council; Time Required.
   Provided, however, that at least three weeks prior to the awarding of such a
contract, the Mayor shall notify the Boston City Council.
(Ord. 1979 c. 44 § 4; CBC 1985 4-2.4)
4-3   TASK FORCE FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
4-3.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this task force shall be: to ensure compliance with M.G.L.
Chapter 40, Section 4F in promoting the purchase of clothing and apparel by
cities and towns from manufacturers that pay their employees a prevailing wage;
to review the implementation and enforcement of this Section; and to make
recommendations, from time to time, in connection herewith.
(CBC 1985 4-3.1; Ord. 2001 c. 7)
4-3.2   Composition and Term.
   (A)   The Task Force for Implementation shall be composed of three members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor.
      (1)   One member of the Task Force shall be a labor union member
appointed by the Mayor from a list of three nominees recommended by the AFL-
CIO.
      (2)   One member of the Task Force shall be a representative of the
garment industry or an association representing said industry.
      (3)   One member of the Task Force shall be a member of a public interest
group with experience in the garment industry.
   (B)   Each member of the Task Force shall serve a three-year term.
(CBC 1985 4-3.2; Ord. 2001 c. 7)
4-3.3   Meetings.
   The Task Force shall meet periodically and in special session as required.
All meetings of the task force shall be open to the public under the
commonwealth’s Open Meeting Law, being M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Sections 18—25.
(CBC 1985 4-3.3; Ord. 2001 c. 7)
4-3.4   Reporting.
   (A)   On a regular basis, the City Auditor shall issue a report on the
city’s compliance with M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 4F. The report, sorted by
Department, shall include: contract or order for clothing apparel; the vendor,
name and address of the vendor’s manufacturer(s) and contractor(s); factory
name(s) and address(es) to be used for the contract or order; and a copy of the
bidder’s written declaration of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 4F compliance.
   (B)   This report will also be subject to review by the Boston City Council
Post Audit and Oversight Committee through the formal hearing process of the
Boston City Council and its members.
(CBC 1985 4-3.4; Ord. 2001 c. 7)
4-3.5   Sunset Clause.
   The above terms and conditions for the Task Force for Implementation shall
expire three years from the date of passage of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 4F.
(CBC 1985 4-3.5; Ord. 2001 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
   Former Section 4-3, Conditions Required as Part of Contractual Agreements,
previously codified herein and containing portions of Ordinance Nos. 1986 c. 18
and 1991 c. 6, were repealed in their entirety by Ordinance No. 1994 c. 4.
4-4   PROMOTING MINORITY AND WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN THE CITY.
4-4.1   Findings.
   Whereas, in keeping with the City of Boston’s (the “city”) economic
development philosophy to maximize economic opportunity for all citizens of
Boston and every segment of the business community, it is the policy of the
city to encourage, assist and provide equal opportunity for minority and women
owned businesses to participate in the receipt of city contracts; and whereas,
the city supports every reasonable measure to avoid becoming a passive
participant in any private sector discrimination practiced against minority and
women owned business enterprises within the city’s marketplace; and whereas,
nondiscrimination alone in the awarding of city contracts is not sufficient to
maximize economic opportunity for all residents of Boston and every segment of
the business community, the need exists for purposeful steps to be taken to
ensure that both minority and women owned businesses are utilized by the city
to a more substantial and equitable extent; and whereas, this Section, as
enacted, could no longer be implemented due to United States Supreme Court
jurisprudence; now, therefore, the city declares and finds that it is necessary
to ameliorate the continuing negative impact of said underutilization and
under-representation of minority and women owned businesses in city contracts.
(CBC 1985 4-4.1; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 1; Ord. 1994 c. 18 § 1; Ord. 1995 c. 6 § 1;
Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-4.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY OF BOSTON DEPARTMENTS. Those City Departments, Authorities, Agencies
and any Department or Agency acting on behalf of another (“Awarding
Authorities”) under the supervision of the Mayor or persons appointed by him or
her.
   CITY OF BOSTON MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE INITIATIVE (“MWBE
INITIATIVE”). The initiative outlined in this Section shall be referred to as
and shall commence upon execution of the Section.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the SLBE who, for the purposes of overseeing the
implementation of this Section, shall report directly to the Mayor, or his or
her specified designee, concerning internal compliance with the Section by the
leadership and general ranks of City of Boston Departments.
   MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (“MBE”). A business certified by the Small and
Local Business Enterprise (“SLBE”) Office as a bona fide minority business.
   MWBE. Minority and Women Business Enterprise.
   SLBE OFFICE. The Small and Local Business Enterprise Office, as originally
referenced in this chapter, the Office of Small Business Development or any
other Office similarly charged with implementing diversity initiatives within
city procurement and/or contracting.
   WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (“WBE”). A business certified by the SLBE Office
as a bona fide women business.
(CBC 1985 4-4.2; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 2; Ord. 1995 c. 6 §§ 2-12; Ord. 2008 c. 8;
Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 1)
4-4.31   Supplier Diversity Program.
   The SLBE Office shall establish a supplier diversity program designed and
implemented to achieve meaningful participation on the part of MWBEs in all
city contracts, including those for supplies and services, construction, public
works and design services.
(CBC 1985 4-4.31; Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 2)
4-4.32   Affirmative Marketing Policy.
   (A)   The SLBE Office shall seek to identify those minority and women
businesses that may benefit from this Section, reach them with information and
education regarding city contracting needs and policies and encourage those
businesses to participate in all city contracts, including those for supplies
and services, construction, public works and design services.
   (B)   To the extent not otherwise provided by statute and subject to M.G.L.
Chapter 7C, Sections 44-57 (Designer Selection), whenever any Department of the
city announces contracting opportunities for professional services for an
amount less than $50,000, the city shall seek proposals from at least one MBE
or WBE firm whose professional services qualify as such under the city’s most
recently conducted disparity study.
(CBC 1985 4-4.32; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 3; Ord. 1994 c. 18 § 3; Ord. 1995 c. 6 §
13; Ord. 2008 c. 8; Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 2)
4-4.33   RFP Policy.
   Requests for Proposals (“RFP”s) issued by City Departments used in the
procurement of supplies and services, or contracting for construction, public
works or design services shall reflect WMBE participation goals and diversity
initiatives as laid out in this chapter, and by the SLBE Office. Evaluation of
a proposal submitted in response to a city RFP shall include an assessment and
rating of each proposer’s commitment and approach to meeting city objectives
regarding inclusion of minorities, women and WMBEs.
(CBC 1985 4-4.33; Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 2)
4-4.4   Policy Implementation.
   (A)   The SLBE Office shall have primary oversight authority of the MWBE
Initiative.
   (B)   The SLBE Office shall have primary responsibility for implementation
of MWBE outreach efforts. In order to fulfill this responsibility, the SLBE
Office shall be responsible for providing the resources to each Department to
achieve maximum MWBE participation in Department contracts.
   (C)   The SLBE Office shall be responsible for educating City Departments
regarding the requirements of this Section and shall guide Departments in their
efforts to document and report MWBE participation.
   (D)   The SLBE Office shall be responsible for monitoring the effectiveness
of Departmental efforts and the participation of MBE/WBEs in City of Boston
contracts for goods or services. The SLBE Office shall maintain records
required or reasonably necessary to monitor such participation.
   (E)   The SLBE Office shall develop and maintain a directory of certified
MBEs and WBEs to be published on the SLBE Office’s website. The directory shall
be updated on a bi-monthly basis.
   (F)   Pursuant to the supplier diversity program established under
Subsection 4-4.32(A), the SLBE Office shall adopt contractor participation
goals and develop appropriate contracting language that provide for and ensure
the meaningful participation of MWBEs as contractors.
(CBC 1985 4-4.4; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 5; Ord. 1994 c. 18 § 4; Ord. 1995 c. 6 §§
15, 16; Ord. 2008 c. 8; Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 3)
4-4.5   Compliance and Enforcement.
   The SLBE Office shall be responsible for monitoring and enforcing this
Section.
(CBC 1985 4-4.5; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 6; Ord. 1994 c. 18 § 5; Ord. 1995 c. 6 § 17;
Ord. 1996 c. 14; Ord. 2001 c. 11; Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-4.6   Data Collection.
   (A)   The SLBE Office shall collect, and the City’s Departments shall
provide, data from all parties affected by this Section. This data shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Business name, address, telephone number and name/title of the
vendor;
      (2)   The MWBE status of vendor;
      (3)   Any unique identification code or number for the vendor;
      (4)   A brief description of services to be performed by the vendor;
      (5)   Date and dollar amount of contract award;
      (6)   Funding source of contract; and
      (7)   Start and end dates of the contract.
   (B)   The data shall be submitted in conformity with the schedule and
reporting format developed by SLBE.
   (C)   Data shall be collected for informational purposes and shall not be
used in a discriminatory manner.
   (D)   All City Departments shall require any vendor affected by this Section
to submit the data required under division (A) above as part of the standard
billing/payment submission process.
   (E)   All City Departments shall report to the Mayor and the Boston City
Council on a quarterly basis each Department’s contracting activities,
including utilization of Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises.
   (F)   (1)   The SLBE Office shall compile the following information from
City Departments and Central Procurement, and prepare quarterly reports which
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The total dollars expended on procurement contracts to date;
         (b)   The number and type of contracts entered into to date;
         (c)   The number of contracts entered into with minority business
enterprises;
         (d)   The number of contracts entered into with women business
enterprises;
         (e)   The number of contracts entered into with city resident owned
businesses;
         (f)   The number of contracts entered into with veteran business
enterprises;
         (g)   The dollar value of contracts entered into with minority
business enterprises;
         (h)   The dollar value of contracts entered into with women business
enterprises;
         (i)   The dollar value of contracts entered into with city resident
owned businesses; and
         (j)   The dollar value of contracts entered into with veteran business
enterprises.
      (2)   Said reports shall be submitted to the Mayor and the City Council.
The city shall post each quarterly report on its website.
(CBC 1985 4-4.6; Ord. 2008 c. 8; Ord. 2017 c. 7 § 4)
4-4.7   Waiver.
   If a City Department determines that circumstances exist which prevent it
from complying with this Section, then such Department may request from the
SLBE Office an exemption from compliance with the provisions of this Section.
(CBC 1985 4-4.7; Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-4.8   Conformity with Existing Commonwealth and Federal Law.
   The city’s MWBE Initiative shall be implemented in conformity with any and
all commonwealth and federal law, including, but not limited to, the statutory
standards set forth in the commonwealth’s Construction Reform Law, Chapter 193
of the Acts of 2004 and the revisions it made to M.G.L. Chapter 23A, Section 44
and M.G.L. Chapter 7, Section 6.
(CBC 1985 4-4.8; Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-4.9   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision, or
portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 4-4.9; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 8; Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-4.10   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect upon passage.
(CBC 1985 4-4.10; Ord. 1987 c. 14 § 9; Ord. 1992 c. 14 § 1; Ord. 1993 c. 8 § 1;
Ord. 1994 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 1994 c. 18 § 2; Ord. 1995 c. 6 § 18; Ord. 2000 c. 7;
Ord. 2001 c. 11; Ord. 2008 c. 8)
4-5   REQUIRING HARMONY IN CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS.
4-5.1   Policy Statement.
   It is the policy of the city to ensure that all City Departments,
Authorities, Commissions and Agencies serving as awarding authorities for
contracts for new construction, rehabilitation, renovation or remodeling work
require the contractor and/or sub-contractor to certify in writing that he or
she shall furnish labor who can and will work in harmony with all other labor
employed in any work or at the worksite which is the subject of the written
contract.
(CBC 1985 4-5.1; Ord. 1989 c. 3 § 100)
4-5.2   Continuance of this Section Until Repealed.
   The requirements contained herein shall continue in effect unless
specifically repealed, notwithstanding any repeal of M.G.L. Chapter 30, Section
39M(c).
(CBC 1985 4-5.2; Ord. 1989 c. 3, § 101)
4-6   EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION OF CONSULTANTS.
4-6.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSULTANTS or CONTRACTORS. 
      (1)   Any person or organization who, as a non-employee of the city,
gives advice in the field of his or her knowledge or training, or provides a
service, and whose compensation is payable from other than the salary and wage
account as identified in the city’s Budget Code.
      (2)   This person or organization does not have to be in a supervisory
role but merely identified as a non-employee of the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person whose compensation is payable from the salary and wage
account as identified in the city’s Budget Code and shall not include people on
the Trustee Payroll of Boston City Hospital.
(CBC 1985 4-6.1; Ord. 1989 c. 12, § 1)
4-6.2   Replacement of Unionized Employees by Consultant or Contractor
Contracts Prohibited.
   Consultant or contractor contracts shall not be used to replace any
positions currently held by unionized employees of the city or fill any vacant
union positions.
(CBC 1985 4-6.2; Ord. 1989 c. 12, § 2)
4-6.3   Restriction on Hiring of Consultants to Supervise City Employees.
   After the effective date of this Section, unless an emergency situation
exists and a waiver is approved by the Mayor and City Council, no person shall
be hired by the city as a consultant or contractor, so-called, to directly or
indirectly supervise another temporary, provisional or permanent employee of
the city. This shall not apply to current consultant/contractor contracts or
their reapproval.
(CBC 1985 4-6.3; Ord. 1989 c. 12, § 3)
4-6.4   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect immediately.
(CBC 1985 4-6.4; Ord. 1989 c. 12, § 4)
4-7   CORI SCREENING BY VENDORS OF THE CITY.
4-7.1   Purpose.
   These Sections are intended to ensure that the persons and businesses
supplying goods and/or services to the city deploy fair policies relating to
the screening and identification of persons with criminal backgrounds through
the CORI system.
(CBC 1985 4-7.1; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any current or prospective employee, licensee or volunteer and
includes all persons included in 803 CMR 2.03.
   AWARDING AUTHORITY. Any Department, Agency or Office of the city that
purchases goods and/or services from a vendor.
   CHSB. The Criminal History Systems Board defined in M.G.L. Chapter 6 and 803
CMR 2.00.
   CITY. The City of Boston or Department, Agency or Office thereof.
   CORI. The commonwealth’s Criminal Offender Record Information System defined
in M.G.L. Chapter 6 and 803 CMR 2.00.
   OTHERWISE QUALIFIED. Any applicant that meets all other criteria for a
position or consideration for a position.
   VENDOR. Any vendor, contractor or supplier of goods and/or services to the
city.
(CBC 1985 4-7.2; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.3   CORI-Related Standards of the City.
   (A)   The city will do business only with vendors that have adopted and
employ CORI-related policies, practices and standards that are consistent with
city standards.
   (B)   The city employs CORI-related policies and practices that are fair to
all persons involved and seeks to do business with vendors that have
substantially similar policies and practices. The awarding authority shall
review all vendors’ CORI policies for consistency with city standards. The
awarding authority shall consider all vendors’ CORI standards as part of the
criteria to be evaluated in the awarding of a contract and will consider a
vendor’s execution of the CORI standards to be evaluated among the performance
criteria of a contract. The awarding authority shall consider any vendor’s
deviation from the CORI standards as grounds for rejection, rescission,
revocation or any other termination of the contract.
   (C)   The CORI-related policies and practices of the city include, but are
not limited to the following.
      (1)   The city does not conduct a CORI check on an applicant unless a
CORI check is required by law or the city has made a good faith determination
that the relevant position is of such sensitivity that a CORI report is
warranted.
      (2)   The city reviews the qualifications of an applicant and determines
that an applicant is otherwise qualified for the relevant position before the
city conducts a CORI check. The city does not conduct a CORI check for an
applicant that is not otherwise qualified for a relevant position.
      (3)   If the city has been authorized by the CHSB to receive CORI reports
consisting solely of conviction and case-pending information and the CORI
report received by the city contains other information (i.e. cases disposed
favorably for the applicant such as not guilty, dismissal) then the city
informs the applicant and provides the applicant with a copy of CHSB’s
information for the applicant to pursue correction.
      (4)   When the city receives a proper CORI report of an applicant that
contains only the CORI information that the city is authorized to receive and
the city is inclined to refuse, rescind or revoke the offer of a position to an
applicant then the city fully complies with 803 CMR 6.11 by, including, but not
limited to, notifying the applicant of the potential adverse employment action,
providing the applicant with a photocopy of the CORI report received by the
city, informing the applicant of the specific parts of the CORI report that
concern the city, providing an opportunity for the applicant to discuss the
CORI report with the city including an opportunity for the applicant to present
information rebutting the accuracy and/or relevance of the CORI report,
reviewing any information and documentation received from the applicant and
documenting all steps taken to comply with 803 CMR 6.11.
      (5)   The city makes final employment- related decisions based on all of
the information available to the city, including the seriousness of the crime
(s), the relevance of the crime(s), the number of crime(s), the age of the
crime(s) and the occurrences in the life of the applicant since the crime(s).
If the final decision of the city is adverse to the applicant and results in
the refusal, rescission or revocation of a position with the city, then the
city promptly notifies the applicant of the decision and the specific reason(s)
therefor.
(CBC 1985 4-7.3; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.4   Waiver.
   (A)   Under exigent circumstances, an awarding authority, by its highest
ranking member, may grant a waiver of Subsection 4-7.3 on a contract-by-
contract basis and shall submit a written record of the waiver to the Office of
Civil Rights and to the Boston City Council’s Staff Director who shall provide
a copy to each and every City Councillor. The written record shall include, but
not be limited to:
      (1)   A summary of the terms of the contract;
      (2)   The details of the vendor’s failure or refusal to conform with the
city’s CORI-related standards; and
      (3)   A brief analysis of the exigency causing the grant of waiver.
   (B)   No waiver may be considered perfected unless the awarding authority
fully complies with the provisions of this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 4-7.4; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.5   Data Collection and Report.
   Any awarding authority, vendor, applicant or other interested party may
contact the Office of Civil Rights to report any problems, concerns or
suggestions regarding the implementation, compliance and impacts of these
Sections, and the Office of Civil Rights shall log every comment received with
a summary of the comment and shall keep on file any written comments.
Subsequent to logging any comment, the Office of Civil Rights may refer a
complaint to the CHSB and shall notify the relevant awarding authority. The
Office of Civil Rights shall prepare a written report including, but not
limited to, a summary of the granted waivers, a summary of any feedback
regarding CORI-related policies and/or practices and any other information or
analysis deemed noteworthy by the Director of the Office of Civil Rights. The
Office of Civil Rights shall file the report with the Boston City Council via
the Boston City Clerk every six months from the implementation date of these
Sections.
(CBC 1985 4-7.5; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.6   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 4-7.6; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.7   Regulatory Authority.
   The Office of Civil Rights shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations necessary to implement and enforce these Sections and may
promulgate a form of the affidavit.
(CBC 1985 4-7.7; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.8   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 4-7.8; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-7.9   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective on July 1, 2006.
(CBC 1985 4-7.9; Ord. 2005 c. 7)
4-8   REQUIRING CITY VENDORS TO SAFEGUARD UNPROTECTED ROAD USERS.
4-8.1   Purpose.
   Vehicles covered by this Section shall be so constructed and/or equipped as
to offer effective protection to unprotected road users against the risk of
falling under the sides of the vehicle and being caught under the wheels.
(CBC 1985 4-8.1; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVAL OF A VEHICLE. The approval of a complete vehicle type with regard
to its lateral protection.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   CONTRACT. The contract between a vendor and a Department resulting from a
request for proposals or an invitation for bids issued by the city to do any
work or to make any purchase.
   DEPARTMENT(S). Those City Departments, Authorities, Agencies, Commissions
and any other instrumentality acting on behalf of another (“Awarding
Authorities”) under the supervision of the Mayor or persons appointed by him or
her.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The sum of the weights transmitted to the road surface by all
the wheels of the vehicle.
   LARGE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with a gross weight exceeding 10,000 pounds;
or a trailer with an unladen mass exceeding 10,000 pounds; or a semi-trailer
with a gross weight exceeding 26,000 pounds.
   LATERAL PROTECTIVE DEVICE. An apparatus installed on large vehicles between
the front and rear wheels to help prevent injuries to unprotected road users,
particularly from falling underneath the vehicle.
   MAYOR. The Mayor or persons designated by him or her.
   OTHERWISE QUALIFIED. Any vendor that meets all other criteria for the award
of a contract.
   UNLADEN MASS. The weight of the vehicle in running order, unoccupied and
unloaded, but complete with fuel, coolant, lubricant, tools and spare wheel, if
supplied by the vehicle manufacturer as standard equipment.
   UNPROTECTED ROAD USERS. Pedestrians, cyclists or motorcyclists using the
road in such a way that they are liable to fall under the sides of the vehicle
and to be caught under the wheels.
   VENDOR. Any firm, vendor, contractor or supplier of goods and/or services to
the city, and any of its subcontractors.
(CBC 1985 4-8.2; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.3   Requirements for Large Vehicles.
   When any Officer or Board in charge of a Department or other awarding Agency
of the city issues requests for proposals or invitations for bids to do any
work or make any purchase, said Officer or Board shall contract with a
responsible and eligible vendor that has also installed, or that demonstrates
that it will install, side under-ride guards, convex mirrors and appropriate
warning signage on all large vehicles it uses or will use within the city in
connection with the contract in preference of otherwise qualified vendors.
(CBC 1985 4-8.3; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.4   Policy Implementation.
   Every large vehicle or a conventional cab configuration in which more than
half of the engine length is forward of the foremost point of the windshield
base and the steering wheel hub is in the forward quarter of the vehicle length
used by a vendor in connection with a contract shall be equipped with convex
mirrors, cross-over mirrors, decals and side under-ride guards affixed to the
sides of such vehicles in a manner consistent this Section and with rules and
regulations further promulgated by the Boston Transportation Department, the
Boston Police Department and the Inspectional Service Department. As future
technical innovations to improve safety for vulnerable road users become
available, the city will make efforts to test and update these requirements.
(CBC 1985 4-8.4; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.5   Technical Specifications for the Equipment of Lateral Protective
Devices, Convex Mirrors and Convex Cross-over Mirrors and Safety Decals.
   (A)   Lateral protective devices. Large vehicles must be constructed or
equipped in such a way as to offer, throughout their length, effective
protection to unprotected road users against the risk of falling under the side
of the vehicle and being caught under the wheels. This requirement will be
considered satisfied either:
      (1)   If the vehicle is equipped with a special lateral protective device
(side under-ride guard) in accordance with the requirements of division (B)
below;
      (2)   If the vehicle is so designed and/or equipped at the side that, by
virtue of its shape and characteristics, its component parts can be
incorporated and/or regarded as replacing the lateral protective device.
Components whose combined function satisfies the requirements set out in
division (B) below are considered to form a lateral protective device.
   (B)   Technical specifications. The lateral protective device can use
horizontal rails or a continuous flat surface that meets the following
dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The lower edge of the lateral protective device shall at no point
be more than 21½ inches above the ground.
      (2)   The upper edge of the lateral protective device shall not be more
than 14 inches below that part of the structure of the vehicle, cut or
contracted by a vertical plane tangential to the outer surface of the tires,
excluding any bulging close to the ground.
      (3)   Not more than 12 inches to the rear of the vertical plane
perpendicular to the longitudinal plane of the vehicle and tangential to the
outer surface of the tire on the wheel immediately forward of the guard.
      (4)   The rearward edge of the lateral protective device shall not be
more than 12 inches forward of the vertical plane perpendicular to the
longitudinal plane of the vehicle and tangential to the outer surface of the
tire on the wheel immediately to the rear.
      (5)   The lateral protective device shall not increase the overall width
of the large vehicle and the main part of its outer surface shall not be more
than 5 inches inboard from the outermost plane (maximum width) of the vehicle.
      (6)   Every lateral protective device shall be essentially rigid and
securely mounted. They shall not be liable to loosening due to vibration in
normal use of the vehicle. The lateral protective device shall be considered
suitable if it is capable of withstanding a force of 440 pounds applied
perpendicularly to any part of its surface by the center of a ram, the face of
which is circular and not more than 8½ inches in diameter, and during such
application.
      (7)   No part of the side under-ride guard shall be deflected by more
than 6 inches.
      (8)   No part of the side under-ride guard which is less than 10 inches
from its rearmost part shall be deflected by more than 1¼ inches.
   (C)   Convex mirrors. Large vehicles must be equipped with convex mirrors to
enable the operator of the large vehicle to see all points on an imaginary
horizontal line which:
      (1)   Is 3 feet above the road; and
      (2)   Is 1 foot directly forward from the midpoint upon the longitudinal
axis of the front of such large vehicle; and extends the full width of such
large vehicle
   (D)   Cross-over mirrors. Large vehicles must be equipped with convex cross-
over mirror on the front of the vehicle to enable the operator of the large
vehicle with a conventional cab configuration in which at least more than half
of the engine length is forward of the foremost point of the windshield base
and the steering wheel hub is in the forward quarter of the vehicle length to
allow the driver to see:
      (1)   Any person or object at least 3 feet tall passing in front of the
vehicle; and
      (2)   The area from the front bumper to where direct vision is possible.
   (E)   Safety decals. Large vehicles must be equipped with a minimum of three
safety decals on the rear and sides that warn pedestrians and cyclists of blind
spots.
      (1)   Decals should be safety yellow in color.
      (2)   Decals should include language or images warning of the blind spot
locations on the vehicle.
      (3)   Decals should be placed, when possible, on or near the lateral
protection devices.
(CBC 1985 4-8.5; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.6   Compliance and Enforcement.
   (A)   Non-compliance with the provisions of this Section by a vendor shall
be grounds for:
      (1)   A fine of $100 for the first offense on a contract, escalating to
$150 for the second offense and $200 for the third offense; and
      (2)   Termination of the contract.
   (B)   This Section shall be enforced by the Inspectional Services
Department’s Weights and Measures Division and the Boston Police Department.
The Boston Police Department and the Inspectional Services Department shall
determine non-compliance with the provisions of this Section and any applicable
regulations and may make recommendations, if any, to the contracting
Department.
   (C)   The Inspectional Services Department shall issue, for a vendor’s large
vehicles, a compliance certification through a vehicle inspection of convex
mirrors, lateral protective devices and decals prior to the date vendor begins
work on a contract. A fee to cover the costs associated with inspection will be
determined by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department and
passed on to the vendor.
   (D)   Vehicle compliance will be certified with a sticker denoting the year
of inspection. Inspections must be updated biennially.
   (E)   Vendors may file for a waiver as stipulated in Subsection 4-8.7.
Waiver applications must be made in writing at the time of contract bid to the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services, the Department requesting services and
the Commissioner of Transportation. Waiver applications filed after contract
bids will not be considered.
   (F)   Inspectional Services Department shall issue an annual report to be
filed with the Mayor and the City Clerk and transmitted by the Clerk to the
Boston City Council on the actions undertaken by the Inspectional Services
Department on enforcement of this Section no later than May 31 of each year.
The annual written report shall include, but not be limited to, the following
items for the 12-month period prior to the report’s due date:
      (1)   Any financial costs to the city associated with this Section;
      (2)   The number of vehicles this Section applied to;
      (3)   The number of vehicle exemptions, if any;
      (4)   The total number of inspections performed by inspectors and any
subsequent violations of this Section; and
      (5)   Evaluation of safety performance on equipped vehicles from Boston
EMS and BPD reports of incidents.
(CBC 1985 4-8.6; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.7   Waiver.
   (A)   If a vendor or Department determines that extenuating circumstances
exist which prevent the vendor from complying with this Section, then such
vendor or Department may request an exemption from compliance to the city with
its provisions. Waivers are issued at the sole discretion of the city.
   (B)   This Section does not apply to:
      (1)   A motor vehicle which has a maximum speed not exceeding 15 mph;
      (2)   An agricultural trailer;
      (3)   A fire engine;
      (4)   An emergency medical vehicle;
      (5)   A vehicle which is being driven or towed to a place where by
previous arrangement a side under-ride guard is to be fitted so that it
complies with this Section;
      (6)   Vehicles used solely for the purpose of snow removal;
      (7)   Street sweeper vehicles; and
      (8)   City of Boston Fleet Vehicles purchased before July 1, 2014.
(CBC 1985 4-8.7; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.8   Conformity with Existing Commonwealth and Federal Law.
   This Section shall be implemented in conformity with commonwealth and
federal law.
(CBC 1985 4-8.8; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.9   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision, or
portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 4-8.9; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-8.10   Effective Date.
   (A)   This Section shall take effect 180 days after passage and shall apply
to all new contracts awarded and to all renewal terms of existing contracts
executed after that date.
   (B)   City of Boston fleet vehicles purchased after July 1, 2014 that are
large vehicles as defined herein will be required to comply with the provisions
of this Section.
   (C)   The Inspectional Services Department, Boston Police Department and the
Transportation Department shall issue rules and regulations to implement the
provisions of this Section within 90 days of the date it takes effect.
(CBC 1985 4-8.10; Ord. 2014 c. 14)
4-9   REQUIRING CITY DEPARTMENTS AND VENDORS TO ADOPT GOOD FOOD PURCHASING
STANDARDS.
4-9.1   Purpose.
   (A)   In order to leverage city purchasing and procurement to improve public
health, sustainability, fair working conditions and local opportunity across
the city and the commonwealth, the city embraces the Good Food Purchasing
Program (“GFPP”) as a strategy to help improve our region’s food system through
the adoption and implementation of Good Food Purchasing Standards, which
emphasize values that would:
      (1)   Support small- and mid-sized agricultural and food processing
operations within the local area or region;
      (2)   Support producers that employ sustainable production systems that
reduce or eliminate synthetic pesticides and fertilizers; avoid the use of
hormones, antibiotics and genetic engineering; conserve soil and water; protect
and enhance wildlife habitat and biodiversity; and reduce on-farm energy
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions;
      (3)   Protect workers’ rights to freedom of association, to organize a
union and collectively bargain in order to better ensure safe and healthy
working conditions, fair compensation and access to health insurance and
affordable child care for all food chain workers;
      (4)   Ensure farmers a fair price for their products that covers the cost
of production and fair remuneration for their management and labor;
      (5)   Provide healthy and humane care for farm animals; and
      (6)   Promote health and well-being by offering generous portions of
vegetables, fruit and whole grains; reducing salt, added sugars, fats and oils;
and by eliminating artificial additives.
   (B)   Additionally, in support of the State of Equity in Metro Boston Policy
Agenda 2017 (including Metro Future Goals #22, 38, 39), the following goal is
also adopted and implemented to address ongoing inequities and issues caused by
unequal access to resources: Encourage prospective food vendors to invest in
our disadvantaged and minority communities by including in procurement requests
preferences for prospective vendors who demonstrate a track record of hiring
and investing in local disadvantaged communities; provide living wages to all
their employees, including frontline food workers; are local minority, disabled
and/or women owned businesses; and are local producers and processors operating
in low-income communities and employing nontoxic, environmentally sustainable
methods.
(CBC 1985 4-9.1; Ord. 2019 c. 1 § 1)
4-9.2   Requirements for Departments and Agencies.
   (A)   City Departments and Agencies requiring procurement or service
contracting of foods shall adopt Good Food Purchasing Standards as a framework
for guiding values driven purchasing.
   (B)   City Departments and Agencies that purchase or procure food or food
services shall take the following steps in support of Good Food Purchasing:
      (1)   Within 12 months of the passage of this Section, or in the case of
a newly created Department or Agency or new procurement responsibilities for an
existing Department or Agency, within 12 months of the start of new repeated
procurement practices, communicate Good Food Purchasing Standards to
appropriate and selected suppliers, including distributors and food service
companies, and request them to share data that will help the Department or
Agency complete a baseline Good Food Purchasing assessment of food procurement
practices;
      (2)   Within six months after the baseline assessment has been completed,
develop and adopt a multi-year action plan with benchmarks to measure success
towards Good Food Purchasing Standards, including accountability systems with
appropriate vendors or distributors to verify sourcing commitments and assess
current food procurement practices;
      (3)   To the extent permitted by law, within one year after the baseline
assessment has been completed, incorporate Good Food Purchasing Standards into
new procurement requests and contracts; and
      (4)   Commit to reasonable public review, robust analysis and full
transparency during implementation of the Good Food Purchasing Standards, which
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The release of the baseline assessment by each respective
Department or Agency for public comment at least 30 days prior to the public
hearing provided for in Subsection 4-9.3; and
         (b)   Hold a public hearing to receive public testimony on the
baseline no later than 90 days after completion of the assessment.
(CBC 1985 4-9.2; Ord. 2019 c. 1 § 1)
4-9.3   Transparency.
   Good Food Purchasing Policy reflects multiple values of diverse
stakeholders. Therefore, maximum transparency, along with adequate time for
public review and comments, are essential to ensure the best possible outcomes
for Department and Agency procurement decisions to reflect GFPP values to the
greatest degree possible, and to charter an ever-improving path towards greater
sustainability in Boston food procurement. Departments and Agencies must
therefore balance the legitimate confidentiality needed for maintaining the
integrity of a fair, competitive process with the right of the public to have
adequate time with and access to all relevant information, in order to provide
meaningful comments to the Departments and Agencies and their respective final
decision-makers for the purpose of improving the implementation of the Good
Food Purchasing Policy in the future.
   (A)   A representative from the Office of Neighborhood Services, as a
representative of city constituents, shall serve as a member of the
Departmental or Agency team evaluating responses to procurement requests.
   (B)   Within 60 days of final approval and acceptance of responses to
procurement requests, the Department or Agency shall hold a public hearing on
the final response chosen.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the public hearing, the Department or
Agency shall make available for public comment on an Agency website:
         (a)   The Department or Agency’s evaluation process and rationale for
selection of the final response;
         (b)   All successful and unsuccessful responses to procurement
requests, along with all supporting information, including, but not limited to,
the GFPP scoring method, for all responses; and
         (c)   Except that no confidential business information protected by
the commonwealth will be included in the release of the information required in
these Subsections.
      (2)   The Agency shall compile and forward all public comments, along
with the public hearing record, to the Community Advisory Council created in
Subsection 4-9.4.
(CBC 1985 4-9.3; Ord. 2019 c. 1 § 1)
4-9.4   Community Advisory Council.
   The head of the respective Department or Agency shall convene a Community
Advisory Council comprised of community stakeholders, including a minimum of
one representative from each of the GFPP value categories, including those as
delineated in Subsection 4-9.1 to support Departments and Agencies in the
process of implementation as laid out in this Section and ongoing as requested
by Departments and Agencies.
(CBC 1985 4-9.4; Ord. 2019 c. 1 § 1)
4-9.5   Reporting.
   (A)   Participating City Departments and Agencies shall provide annual
progress reports, including compliance data, to the City Council. Such progress
reports shall be made readily available to the public online and in print by
request.
   (B)   Within two years of completion of the baseline assessments, each
participating Department and Agency will begin requesting an annual assessment
from the Center for Good Food Purchasing. The Departments and Agencies will
hold public annual hearings where they will present their GFPP assessment, to
receive public comment on the progress made by each respective Department or
Agency, and associated suppliers, toward more sustainable procurement under the
Good Food Purchasing Program. Community stakeholders will have sufficient time
to ask questions and make public comment. All Department or Agency assessments
will be made publicly available online and at Boston Public Libraries in print
form at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
(CBC 1985 4-9.5; Ord. 2019 c. 1 § 1)
4-9.6   Severability.
   The invalidity of any Section or provision of this Section shall not
invalidate any other Section or provision thereof, nor shall it invalidate any
contract, approval or determination which previously has been issued.
(CBC 1985 4-9.6; Ord. 2019 c. 1)
CHAPTER V: ADMINISTRATION
Section
5-1   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   
5-1.1   Administrative Services Board; Appointment and Term of Members
   
5-1.2   Duties of Director
   
5-1.3   Duties of Deputy Director
   
5-1.4   Duties of Supervisor of Labor Relations
   
5-1.5   Duties of Supervisor of Budgets
   
5-1.6   Duties of Supervisor of Personnel
   
5-1.7   Personnel Practices in Youth Activities Commission
   
5-1.8   Duties of Purchasing Agent
   
5-1.9   Printing Plant; Union Label
   
5-1.10   City Documents
   
5-1.11   Office of Participatory Budgeting
      
5-1.11.1   Establishment
      
5-1.11.2   Purpose
      
5-1.11.3   Appointment, Term of Director
      
5-1.11.4   Duties of the Director
      
5-1.11.5   Composition, Appointment, and Term of the External Oversight Board
      
5-1.11.6   Rules and Regulations of the External Oversight Board
      
5-1.11.7   Power and Duties of the External Oversight Board
      
5-1.11.8   Powers and Duties of the Office
      
5-1.11.9   Fiscal Accountability
5-2   ART COMMISSION
   
5-2.1   Art Commissioners; Appointment, Term, Compensation, Powers and Duties
5-3   PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
   
5-3.1   Established; Powers and Duties
5-4   DEPARTMENT OF FEDERALLY FUNDED AGENCIES
   
5-4.1   Federally Funded Agencies Board; Appointment and Terms
   
5-4.2   Powers and Duties
   
5-4.3   Divisions Within Department
   
5-4.4   Annual Report
   
5-4.5   Appoints to Subordinate Positions
5-5   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS: OFFICERS, SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES
   
5-5.1   Acceptance of Office
   
5-5.2   Residency and Voting Requirements for Certain Officers
   
5-5.3   Residency Requirement
   
5-5.4   Selection Process for Applicant for Provisional or Temporary Positions
   
5-5.5   Suspension of Employees; Order of Suspension
   
5-5.6   Bonds of Officers and Subordinates
   
5-5.7   Personal Liability of Auditor and/or Collector-Treasurer
   
5-5.8   Bonds Not Required by Statute or Ordinance
   
5-5.9   Allowance of Premium as Expense
   
5-5.10   Salary Categories for Certain Offices
   
5-5.10A   Boston Compensation Advisory Board
   
5-5.11   Provisions Regarding Holdovers
   
5-5.12   County Officers
   
5-5.13   Temporary Officers
   
5-5.14   Vacation and Other Absence
   
5-5.15   Boards to Organize First Monday of May
   
5-5.16   Office Hours
   
5-5.17   Records of Acts and Doings of Departments
   
5-5.18   Employment, Compensation and Tenure of Subordinates
   
5-5.19   Reimbursement of Legal Expenses to City Employees Incurred Within the
Scope of Employment
   
5-5.20   Paid Parental Leave for City Employees
   
5-5.21   To Expend Gifts as Directed
   
5-5.22   Personal Property Not Required by Department
   
5-5.23   Inspection and Certificate by Weigher
   
5-5.24   Printing and Office Supplies
   
5-5.25   Settlement of Claims
   
5-5.26   Fees and the Like Received for Services
   
5-5.27   Bills and Demands Sent to Auditor
   
5-5.28   Certification by City Auditor
   
5-5.29   Pay Rolls
   
5-5.30   Conditions in License of Permits
   
5-5.31   Subordinate Acting Temporarily for Officer
   
5-5.32   Mandatory Referral of Capital Improvements
   
5-5.33   Estimates of Appropriations and Income
   
5-5.34   Annual Reports of Departments
   
5-5.35   Notice of Illness of Inmates of Public Institutions
   
5-5.36   Equal Opportunity Policy
   
5-5.37   Public Access to Computerized Information
   
5-5.38   Public Information Officer; Prohibition of
   
5-5.39   Comparable Worth Commission
   
5-5.40   Notification of Employees Regarding Municipal Ethics Laws
   
5-5.41   Reporting Requirements to the City Retirement Board
   
5-5.42   Gender Identity Nondiscrimination in Health Care Coverage for City
Employees
5-6   PENSIONS, RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES AND ANNUITIES
   
5-6.1   Pension Reserve Fund
   
5-6.2   Allocation of the Fund
   
5-6.3   Use and Maintenance of the Fund
   
5-6.4   Custody of the Fund
   
5-6.5   Appropriation of Fund Monies
   
5-6.6   Fund Not to Vest, and the Like
   
5-6.7   Construction
   
5-6.8   Custodial Accounts, Deposits
   
5-6.9   Severability
5-7   BOSTON RETIREMENT BOARD
   
5-7.1   Powers and Duties
5-8   LAW DEPARTMENT
   
5-8.1   Corporation Counsel
   
5-8.2   Prohibition
5-9   BOSTON CULTURAL COUNCIL
   
5-9.1   Creation; Members; Terms
   
5-9.2   Purpose
   
5-9.3   Election of Officers
   
5-9.4   Powers and Duties
   
5-9.5   Council Rules and Guidelines
   
5-9.6   Application for Funds; Use of Funds
   
5-9.7   Audit of Expenditures
5-10   RESIDENCY COMPLIANCE
   
5-10.1   Residency Compliance Commission
   
5-10.2   Residency Compliance Unit
5-1   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
5-1.1   Administrative Services Board; Appointment and Term of Members.
   There shall be in the city a Department, known as the Administrative
Services Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the
Administrative Services Board, consisting of an Officer, known as the Director
of Administrative Services, who shall be Chair of the Board, an Officer known
as the Deputy Director of Administrative Services for Fiscal Affairs, an
Officer known as the Supervisor of Budgets, an Officer known as the Supervisor
of Labor Relations, an Officer known as the Supervisor of Personnel, an Officer
known as the Purchasing Agent and the Commissioner of Assessing, the City
Auditor and the Collector-Treasurer, ex officio. The Director Administrative
Services, the Deputy Director of Administrative Services for Fiscal Affairs,
the Supervisor of Budgets, the Supervisor of Labor Relations and the Purchasing
Agent shall each be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first
Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a
Mayor is elected, and shall devote their whole time to the duties of their
respective Offices. The Supervisor of Personnel shall be appointed by the
Mayor, and hold Office, subject to the Civil Service laws and rules, and shall
devote his or her whole time to the duties of his or her Office. The Director
of Administrative Services shall exclusively have the powers, and perform the
duties, of a Department head with respect to the appointment, suspension,
discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates for the
Administrative Services Department and the several Officers thereof.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 9; Ord. 1956 c. 3 § 2; Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 3; Ord. 1968 c. 2 §
2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 5 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 §
1; CBC 1985 5-1.1)
5-1.2   Duties of Director.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrative Services Board, and more
especially of the Director of Administrative Services, to make, under the
Mayor, studies and recommendations with respect to the organization,
activities, policies and procedures of all Departments, Boards and Officers so
that the administration thereof shall be economical and efficient. The
Administrative Services Board shall divide the Administrative Services
Department, from time to time, into such divisions as said Board shall adjudge
necessary for the proper conduct of the Department. The Director of
Administrative Services shall, from time to time, as written studies and
recommendations are made by him or her or by the Administrative Services Board,
and at such times as the Boston City Council may order, file a copy thereof
with the City Clerk for transmission to the Boston City Council and shall cause
to be included in the annual report of said Board, summaries of all such
studies and recommendations.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, it shall be the responsibility of
the Director of Administrative Services to provide the Boston City Council with
access, during regular business hours, to all information contained within all
electronic data retrieval system owned or leased by the city through a terminal
located in the Boston City Council Chambers.
   (B)   The Director of Administrative Services shall also provide the Boston
City Council with a listing of all such retrieval systems currently in use and
all changes or additions to such systems as they occur, together with
appropriate access codes for entry into all such systems.
   (C)   Failure by the Director of Administrative Services to comply with the
provisions of this Section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
Every day during which such noncompliance shall exist shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 2; Ord. 1981 c. 2; CBC 1985 5-1.2)
5-1.3   Duties of Deputy Director.
   The Deputy Director of Administrative Services for fiscal affairs shall,
under the direction of the Mayor, and in consultation with the Director of
Administrative Services, review all aspects of the fiscal affairs of the city
and make recommendations for continual modernization and improvement in the
basic fiscal policies and procedures of the city, including, but not limited
to, the means by which the budget can be used to effectuate policy decision.
The Deputy Director of Administrative Services shall be the Chief Procurement
Officer of the city for the purposes set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 30B.
(Ord. 1968 c. 2 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4 § 2A; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 §
3; CBC 1985 5-1.3; Ord. 1991 c. 1 § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Sec. 2-13
5-1.4   Duties of Supervisor of Labor Relations.
   (A)   The Supervisor of Labor Relations shall, under the direction of the
Mayor, and in consultation with the Director of Administrative Services, review
all aspects of the labor relations of the city and make recommendations for
their improvement, represent the Mayor in all collective bargaining in which
the city is involved and by himself or herself or through assistants appear in
all grievance, arbitration and court proceedings involving labor relations.
   (B)   This Section shall be deemed to be made under Section 5 of Chapter 486
of the Acts of 1909, as amended by Section 1 of Chapter 473 of the Acts of
1953, and shall be so construed that no person holding, whether under general
or special law or otherwise, an Office or position subject to the Civil Service
laws and rules shall, by reason of the adoption of this Section, be without a
similar Office or position or be reduced in rank or compensation.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4; Ord. 1968 c. 2; Ord. 1974 c. 5 §§ 3, 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T5
§ 4; CBC 1985 5-1.4)
5-1.5   Duties of Supervisor of Budgets.
   The Supervisor of Budgets shall, under the direction of the Mayor and in
consultation with the Director of Administrative Services, prepare in
segregated form the annual and all supplementary budgets to be submitted by the
Mayor to the Boston City Council and shall report to the Mayor on all
subsequent revisions of the items of any budget. The Supervisor of Budgets
shall also prepare, under the direction of the Mayor and in consultation with
the Director of Administrative Services, all transfer order to be submitted by
the Mayor to the Boston City Council under Section 3B of Chapter 486 of the
Acts of 1909. The Supervisor of Budgets shall further prepare, under the
direction of the Mayor and in consultation with the Director of Administrative
Services, the form of estimate sheets to be used by each Officer, Board and
Department, and each Division of a Department, for which the city appropriates
money, and the form of monthly report of such Officer, Board and Department,
and each division thereof, showing expenditures to date of all appropriations
by item. In order to assist in the implementation of the provisions of Section
16 of Chapter 486 of the Acts of 1909, for each Agency to which funds are
appropriated, it shall be the responsibility of the Supervisor of Budgets to
establish and supervise a system of monthly allotments of the funds in each
budget item approved by the City Council; and, except in extreme emergency, as
provided by said Section 16, no official in charge of any Agency shall expend
in any month any sum in excess of said budget item allotment except upon
recommendation of the Supervisor of Budgets with the approval of the Mayor and
City Council. The Supervisor of Budgets shall, in addition, have the powers and
perform the duties conferred or imposed on the Budget Commissioner by any
statute other than M.G.L. Chapter 35, Section 56. There shall be a fine of $200
for each violation of this Section.
(St. 1909 c. 486 § 3B; Ord. 1956 c. 3 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 § 3; CBC 1975
Ord. T5 § 5; Ord. 1979 c. 27; CBC 1985 5-1.5)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 35, Section 56
5-1.6   Duties of Supervisor of Personnel.
   The Supervisor of Personnel shall:
   (A)   Establish and maintain personnel records, as complete as practicable,
for all persons in the service of the city;
   (B)   Make a continuing study of personnel problems, employment conditions
and economic changes affecting the several Departments of the city;
   (C)   Recommend, from time to time, to the Mayor and the several Officers
appointing subordinates, programs designed to provide opportunities for career
service within the city and administrative policies tending to improve and
coordinate the handling of personnel matters including providing annually to
each city employee a statement of the city’s child care policy for city
employees and a complete listing of all licensed child care centers in the
city;
   (D)   Supervise the administration of all compensation plans established for
employees of the city and recommend such changes in those plans as, from time
to time, shall seem to him or her necessary or advisable; and
   (E)   Have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed on the
Budget Commissioner by M.G.L. Chapter 35, Section 56. The Supervisor of
Personnel shall furnish the Supervisor of Budgets such assistance as said
Supervisor shall require in connection with the performance by said Supervisor
of his or her duties under Subsection 5-1.5.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 6; CBC 1985 5-1.6; Ord. 1987 c.
16)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 35, Section 56
5-1.7   Personnel Practices in Youth Activities Commission.
   (A)   The Supervisor of Personnel, on or before September 1, 1979, shall
establish, subject to approval of the City Council, rules and regulations to
govern personnel in the Youth Activities Commission which shall:
      (1)   Ensure that for all appointments to positions within the
Commission, made after June 30, 1979, every reasonable effort shall be made to
guarantee any resident of the city, who is qualified for any such position,
timely notice that such position is available, reasonable opportunity to apply
for such position and equal opportunity with all qualified applicants for
appointment;
      (2)   Ensure that all employees of the Commission have equal opportunity
for promotion, pay increases or other job-related benefits based on their
training, experience and work performance as such employees; and
      (3)   Ensure that any such employee is given an opportunity to join a
collective bargaining unit, if he or she so chooses, without interference from
any Official or employee of the city.
   (B)   In addition, it shall also be the responsibility of said Supervisor,
on or before September 1, 1979, to establish and submit to the City Council,
job descriptions and qualifications for all positions within the Commission
excepting that of Commissioner.
(Ord. 1979 c. 26; CBC 1985 5-1.7)
5-1.8   Duties of Purchasing Agent.
   The Purchasing Agent shall, when satisfied of the legality of any
requisition in writing signed by the Officer in charge of a Department
requiring material or supplies of any kind, at once comply with such
requisition and furnish the material or supplies requisitioned; shall require
suitable evidence that the material or supplies furnished are accepted by the
Officer issuing the requisition; and shall keep suitable records of all
requisitions received and materials and supplies furnished.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 7; CBC 1985 5-1.8)
5-1.9   Printing Plant; Union Label.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have charge of the printing plant; shall, when
satisfied of the legality of any requisition in writing signed by any Officer
to whom the city is required by law to furnish printing or binding, supply the
printing or binding requisitioned; and shall, wherever practicable, standardize
all such printing and binding. All printed matter done for the city shall, so
far as it can legally do so, bear the imprint of the union label of the Allied
Printing Trades Council of Boston.
(Ord. 1901 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c 4 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 8; CBC 1985 5-1.9)
5-1.10   City Documents.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent shall number and print as City Documents copies
of the Mayor’s Inaugural or Annual Address, the Department Reports and such
other matter as may be ordered to be printed in the form of a city document by
the Boston City Council or by the Mayor. The number of copies of each document
to be printed shall, unless specified by the Boston City Council, be determined
by the Mayor; provided, however, that the minimum shall be 100, of which 50
copies shall be bound in sets of volumes containing all such city documents
with an alphabetical index. All city documents and sets of volumes shall be
delivered to the City Messenger and distributed in such manner as the Boston
City Council may direct. The fee chargeable for any available printed city
documents provided by the Boston City Council to persons other than City
Departments shall be:
      (1)   Fifty cents for documents measuring 6 inches by 9 inches or less
and numbering fewer than 25 pages;
      (2)   One dollar for documents measuring 6 inches by 9 inches or less and
numbering between 25 and 100 pages;
      (3)   Two dollars for documents measuring 6 inches by 9 inches or less
and numbering more than 100 pages;
      (4)   Two dollars and fifty cents for documents 8½ inches by 11 inches
and numbering fewer than 100 pages;
      (5)   Three dollars and fifty cents for documents 8½ inches by 11 inches
and numbering more than 100 pages; and
      (6)   Fifteen dollars for a copy of the book entitled “Boston’s Streets”
and $15 for a copy of the book entitled “City of Boston, Municipal Register”.
   (B)   The fees shall be collected by the Staff Director or the Librarian of
the Boston City Council and used to defray the cost of obtaining printed
documents.
   (C)   Special publications shall, from time to time, be printed on the order
of the Boston City Council approved by the Mayor to which the provisions of
this Section, except as to distribution shall not apply.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 9; Ord. 1978 c. 3; CBC 1985 5-
1.10; Ord. 1990 c. 11; Ord. 1999 c. 1)
5-1.11   Office of Participatory Budgeting.
5-1.11.1   Establishment.
   There shall be within the Finance Cabinet an office, known as the Office of
Participatory Budgeting (the “Office”). The Office shall consist of a Director,
appointed by the Mayor pursuant to Subsection 5-1.11.3, and an External
Oversight Board (the “Board”), appointed by the Mayor pursuant to Subsection 5-
1.11.5.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.2   Purpose.
   (A)   The purpose of the Office is to further public engagement and direct
democratic involvement, and to align with the city’s goals of achieving and
embedding equity and inclusion into city practices, and building collective
capacity on issues of racial and social justice.
   (B)   Participatory budgeting in city spending will provide an official
point of entry for residents to contribute to the city’s budget process. To
accomplish this purpose, the Office, in partnership with the Board, shall
create and oversee an equitable and binding decision-making process open to all
city residents by Fiscal Year 2024, consistent with M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section
53 (“the Participatory Budgeting Process”). The Office shall build partnerships
with other City Departments and Agencies, external organizations, and community
representatives to promote year-round public involvement and engagement with
the Participatory Budgeting Process. The Office shall establish an equitable
and binding method of city resident engagement.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.3   Appointment, Term of Director.
   The Office shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director,
to be appointed by the Mayor. The Mayor may receive input from the External
Oversight Board in the selection of the Director.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.4   Duties of the Director.
   The Director shall have the power to appoint staff members, as appropriate,
and shall be responsible for the daily management and operations of the Office
and staff members. The Director shall administer the participatory budgeting
process consistent with this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.5   Composition, Appointment and Term of the External Oversight Board.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of nine city residents with experience and
expertise in various topics relevant to participatory budgeting, including, but
not limited to, community investment and development, public finance, open
space, urban planning, community organization and outreach, affordable housing,
public education, public health, environmental protection and historic
preservation, and a demonstrated history of civic involvement in their local
communities. The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall solicit applications for
Board membership, which shall require a statement of interest from the
applicant.
   (B)   The selection of the nine Board members will be as follows.
      (1)   All potential nominations must include an application of interest
addressed to the Mayor, or his or her designee, for review.
      (2)   The Mayor will appoint five individuals to the Oversight Board.
      (3)   The Mayor will appoint four individuals to the Oversight Board from
a pool of eight applicants provided by the Boston City Council.
   (C)   Board members shall reflect the diversity of the city. All Board
members shall be residents of the city. Board members may not include city
employees or city-elected officials.
   (D)   The Mayor shall appoint all members of the Board for two-year terms,
and no Board member shall serve more than three consecutive terms; provided
that members may continue to serve until their replacement is appointed.
Vacancies in Board membership shall be filled in the same manner in which
members are appointed. If a vacancy should arise and a new member is appointed
to serve a partial term of less than two years, that partial term shall not
count against the three-year term limit.
   (E)   The Board members shall be deemed to be Special Municipal Employees
for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.6   Rules and Regulations of the External Oversight Board.
   (A)   The Board, by majority vote, shall elect two of its members as Chair
and Co-Chair on an annual basis. In the event both Chairs are unavailable, the
most senior member in tenure of the Board shall chair the Board.
   (B)   Five members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of convening a
meeting and of conducting the business of the Oversight Board. The Board shall
approve its actions by majority vote of the quorum.
   (C)   All records of the Office and Board shall be public unless an
exemption applies under the commonwealth’s Public Records Law, being M.G.L.
Chapter 66, Section 10.
   (D)   The Board shall serve without compensation, but each commissioner
shall be entitled to his or her reasonable expenses actually and necessarily
incurred in the performance of their duties as Board members, as defined by the
Rule Book. These expenditures shall be paid from the budget of the Office of
Participatory Budget.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.7   Power and Duties of the External Oversight Board.
   (A)   Consult with staff in the Office of Participatory Budgeting to create,
formally adopt and annually review, amend or update Boston’s Participatory
Budgeting Rule Book (the “Rule Book”).
   (B)   Request and receive relevant information for the oversight of the
participatory budgeting process from the Director of the Office of
Participatory Budgeting as well as other city officials and employees.
   (C)   At the end of each fiscal year, create an annual review of the
participatory budgeting process for review by the Mayor and City Council and
accessible to the public.
   (D)   Review candidates and provide recommendations to the Mayor for
appointing the Director of Office of Participatory Budgeting.
   (E)   Based on the outcome of the Participatory Budgeting Process, the
Board, in partnership with the Director, shall submit project proposals to the
Mayor consistent with the legal authority of the city for public spending.
(Ord. 2023 c. 2)
5-1.11.8    Powers and Duties of the Office.
   (A)   The Office shall study the best practices for creating an inclusive
and equitable participatory budgeting process in the city and, in collaboration
with the Board, work to produce Rule Book. In doing so, the Office shall
consult with Boston residents, experts. and other cities that have established
participatory budgeting processes to incorporate best practices and policies
into the Rule Book. This Rule Book shall outline the policies and procedures of
the Participatory Budgeting Process, including measures that align with the
city goals of achieving and embedding equity and inclusion into city practices
and building collective capacity on issues of racial and social justice. The
Rule Book shall be a standard set of rules and operations that will include,
but are not limited to: outlining project solicitation; project nomination;
project proposals; project submission; and other processes that would be
appropriate for the Rule Book.
The Office shall annually review, amend and update the Rule Book as needed, in
consultation and with the majority approval of the Board, The Office shall
annually update the City Council on the participatory budget process through an
executive summary submitted at the end of the fiscal year.
   (B)   Public hearings of the Board shall be planned so as to maximize
citizen attendance including a preference to hold hearings in the evenings or
off-site from City Hall, as well as ensuring language accessibility for city
residents. Notice of all public hearings of the Board shall be posted publicly
on the city website and published once a week for two weeks preceding a hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (C)   Participatory budgeting proposals shall be limited to one-time, non-
recurring programs, shall not include the creation of new permanent positions,
must be feasible to implement, and shall be implemented by the appropriate City
Department or Agency with jurisdiction for the project being proposed.
Proposals that would require multi-year funding may make payments to a special
revenue fund and can accept and expend additional grant funds as they are
awarded.
   (D)   Participatory budget proposals shall include cost estimates for
implementation and be provided by the Board and Director in a timeframe that
aligns with the city’s regular budget process and are subject to appropriation.
   (E)   Proposals with estimated costs will be reviewed in advance by an
appropriate City Department or Agency and will be certified by the city’s Chief
Financial Officer. The Office may consult with appropriate city staff to
support the development of proposals.
   (F)   The Office shall regularly report on the uses of the funds, map the
geographic distribution of funded projects, and study the economic and
demographic breakdown of benefitting areas. It shall make such analysis and the
underlying data available on a city website on at least an annual basis in a
public hearing held by the Oversight Board.
(Ord. 2023 c.2)
5-1.11.9   Fiscal Accountability.
   (A)   The Office’s annual operating budget is subject to annual
appropriations, and shall include funding for the administration of the Office,
the Participatory Budgeting Process, and the funding for projects that are
proposed by the Board and Director based on the results of the Participatory
Budgeting Process.
   (B)   Funded projects shall be limited to one-time, non-recurring programs,
and shall not include the creation of new permanent positions.
   (C)   The Office can make payments to support multi-year projects in a
special revenue fund and can accept and expend additional grant funds as they
are awarded.
(Ord. 2023 c.2)
5-2   ART COMMISSION.
5-2.1   Art Commissioners; Appointment, Term, Compensation, Powers and Duties.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be within the Office of the Arts and Humanities a
Board, known as the Art Commission, consisting of five Commissioners, all of
whom shall be residents of the city, appointed by the Mayor as follows:
         (a)   One from three candidates nominated by the Boston Society of
Architects;
         (b)   One from three candidates nominated by the Copley Society of
Boston;
         (c)   One from three candidates nominated by the Museum of Fine Arts;
         (d)   One from candidates nominated by the Trustees of the Public
Library of the city; and
         (e)   The Executive Director of the Office of the Arts and Humanities
ex officio who shall serve without additional compensation.
      (2)   As the term of any Commissioner in Office expires, his or her
successor shall be appointed as such Commissioner for a term of five years.
Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term. The members
of the Art Commission shall serve without compensation. Any Secretary elected
by the Commission outside of its own members shall also serve without
compensation.
   (B)   The Art Commission shall not be subject to the supervision or control
of the Office of the Arts and Humanities or any member thereof; but unless
otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Art Commission shall not communicate with
the Mayor except through the Executive Director of the Office of the Arts and
Humanities and shall not make any annual or other report except through the
Office of the Arts and Humanities.
   (C)   The Art Commission shall have the powers and perform the duties
conferred or imposed by law on the Board of Art Commissioners in existence
immediately prior to the taking effect of Chapter 8 of the Ordinances of 1953.
(St. 1898 c. 410; Sp. St. 1919 c. 87; Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 9; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 4 §
8; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 10; CBC 1985 5-2.1; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 2)
5-3   PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION.
5-3.1   Established; Powers and Duties.
   There shall be in the Administrative Services Department, the Board, known
as the Public Safety Commission; provided for by Section 1 of Chapter 203 of
the Acts of 1959. Said Board shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
provided by statute.
(St. 1959 c. 203 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 C. 4 § 9; CBC 1975 T5 § 11; CBC 1985 5-
3.1)
5-4   DEPARTMENT OF FEDERALLY FUNDED AGENCIES.
5-4.1   Federally Funded Agencies Board; Appointment and Terms.
   There shall be in the city a Department known as the Department of Federally
Funded Agencies. This Department shall be under the charge of a Board, known as
the Board of Federally Funded Agencies, consisting of an Officer known as the
Commissioner of Federally Funded Agencies, appointed by the Mayor for a term
expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, who shall be the Chair of the
Board and two other Officers known as Associate Commissioners of Federally
Funded Agencies, each likewise appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on
the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election
at which a Mayor is elected.
(Ord. 1979 c. 21; CBC 1985 5-4.1)
5-4.2   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Federally Funded Agencies shall exclusively have
the powers, and perform the duties of a Department head with respect to the
appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of
subordinates for the Department; but otherwise, all powers and duties shall be
exercised by the Board, and the Commissioner as a member of said Board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Department to determine what funds are
available from the United States to assist the city and its people, to obtain
and to monitor the expenditure of all such funds and to administer all Agencies
within the Department.
   (C)   Any Agency, purporting to be a City Agency, funded to an extent of 50%
or more by such funds, existing on July 1, 1978, and continuing to exist on the
date on which this Section is in force, which was not created and presently
existing by previous ordinance, is hereby created and shall be in and subject
to the administrative control of this Department.
   (D)   The Department of Federally Funded Agencies shall serve as a liaison
between the city and the various federal Agencies providing funds to
municipalities, informing said Agencies of the city’s needs with respect to
federal programs and assistance; shall seek out and provide all Boston
Municipal Agencies with federal funding information of import to said Agencies;
shall procure, distribute and monitor the expenditure of federal funds to
ensure compliance with federal law, rules, regulations and all other applicable
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. All Officers and employees of the
Department shall be subject to the residency and/or voter registration
requirements established by ordinance.
(Ord. 1979 c. 21; CBC 1985 5-4.2)
5-4.3   Divisions Within Department.
   (A)   There shall be in the Department the following three Divisions:
      (1)   A Division of Information, Application and Distribution;
      (2)   A Division of Federal, State and Municipal Compliance; and
      (3)   A Division of Administration.
   (B)   The Division of Administration shall be under the direction, control
and supervision of the Commissioner. Each of the other Divisions shall be under
the direction, control and supervision of an Associate Commissioner.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of said Division of Information, Application and
Distribution to serve as liaison between the city and the various federal
Agencies providing funds to the city to inform such federal Agencies of the
city’s need with respect to existing federal programs and assistance, to
encourage the establishment of new sources of federal funding to aid the city,
to provide Boston Municipal Agencies with all relevant federal funding
information, to assist said Agencies in applying for such funding and to
distribute such federal funds to all City Agencies which are funded to any
extent by such funds. In the interest of efficiency in the implementation of
such information, application and distribution functions, said Division shall
maintain a Washington, D.C. Office to be under the direction, control and
supervision of the Associate Commissioner for the Division of Information,
Application and Distribution.
   (D)   The Division of Administration shall contain all City Agencies which
are funded to an extent of 50% or more by such federal funds. It shall be the
duty of said Division to administer such subordinate Agencies within said
Division and, in performing this function, to coordinate the activities and
expenditure of all such subordinate Agencies within said Division.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Division of Federal, State and Municipal
Compliance to monitor the expenditure of such funds by Municipal Agencies. In
serving as monitor, said Division shall ensure that municipal Agencies
receiving such federal funds comply with all commonwealth and federal laws,
rules, regulations and funding guidelines and all other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1979 c. 21; CBC 1985 5-4.3)
5-4.4   Annual Report.
   On or before April 15, 1980, and on or before April 15 of each succeeding
year, such Department shall report in writing to the Mayor and City Council.
Such report shall include, but not be limited to, a report on all funds
received by the city from the United States for the 12-month period ending on
the previous June 30, how much of such funds were used by the Department as
administrative expense, how much of such funds were distributed to each City
Agency, how much of such funds distributed to each such Agency were used by
such Agency as administrative expense and if the Department or City Agency
which is funded in whole or in part by such funds contracts for services, how
much of the funds received by the contractor for such services were used for
administrative purposes by the contractor, a narrative style account of the
activities of the Department during the year covered by the report and the
goals and outlook for the Department in the immediately succeeding years.
(Ord. 1979 c. 21; CBC 1985 5-4.4)
5-4.5   Appoints to Subordinate Positions.
   (A)   If for any reason any appointment to a position within the Department,
excepting that of Commissioner or Associate Commissioner, is not made in
accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 31, it shall be the
responsibility of the Department to forthwith establish and promulgate, subject
to approval of the Boston City Council rules and regulations which shall:
      (1)   Ensure that for all appointments to positions within the Department
made after June 30, 1978, every reasonable effort shall be made to guarantee
any resident of the city, who is qualified for any such position, timely notice
that such position is available, reasonable opportunity to apply for such
position and equal opportunity with all qualified applicants for appointment.
All positions established and all appointments to positions in Agencies within
the Department, excepting that of Commissioner and Associate Commissioner, made
after June 30, 1978, are hereby abolished and cancelled as of July 1, 1979, and
if reestablished and new appointments made, such appointments shall be made in
accordance with this division (A)(1);
      (2)   Ensure that all employees have equal opportunity for promotion, pay
increases or other job-related benefits based on their work performance as such
employees;
      (3)   Ensure that any employee is protected in his or her employment
against any inequitable threat of demotion, loss of pay, job termination or
other unfair labor or discriminatory practice; and
      (4)   Ensure that any employee is given an opportunity to join a
collective bargaining unit, if he or she so chooses, without interference from
any official or employee of the city.
   (B)   In addition, it shall also be the responsibility of the Department to
forthwith establish and promulgate, subject to approval of the City Council,
job descriptions for all positions within the Department which are not filled
in accordance with the provision of M.G.L. Chapter 31.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section, however, shall not apply to public
service employment positions under the Federal Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act which have been filled by lottery, or otherwise.
(Ord. 1979 c. 21; CBC 1985 5-4.5)
5-5   BOARDS, DEPARTMENTS: OFFICERS, SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES.
5-5.1   Acceptance of Office.
   Every Officer appointed by the Mayor or elected by the City Council, unless
removed from Office in accordance with law or unless such person leaves Office
by voluntary resignation, shall continue to hold Office until his or her
successor is appointed or elected and duly qualified. No such Officer shall
submit a resignation prior to taking Office, and shall, at the time of taking
Office, submit to the City Clerk, for transmittal to the City Council, a
written affidavit duly sworn and witnessed by a notary public, certifying that
such person has not submitted any such resignation to the appointing official
or body. The Mayor, within five days of receipt of any resignation from such
Officer or within five days after the expiration of any such Officer’s term,
shall communicate such fact in writing to the City Clerk for notification to
the Boston City Council at its next Council meeting. Every such Officer shall
subscribe in a book, to be kept by the City Clerk for that purpose, a statement
that he or she accepts his or her Office subject to the statutes and
ordinances; whoever violates any provision of this Section shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $200 each day, or part thereof, during which such
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense.
(St. 1885 c. 266 § 4; St. 1980 c. 418; Ord. 1883 c. 10; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 §
1; CBC 1975 T5 § 100; Ord. 1979 c. 42; CBC 1985 5-5.1)
5-5.2   Residency and Voting Requirements for Certain Officers.
   (A)   Each Officer appointed by the Mayor or elected by the Boston City
Council to a cabinet level or Department Head position, and every person who
for a period of more than 180 days acts in place of such an Officer, except
those Officers appointed by the Mayor under the provisions of Subsection 5-5.6,
shall be, or within the six months next following the date of his or her
acceptance of Office shall become, both a resident and registered voter of the
city and each such Officer shall continue to be both a resident and a
registered voter of the city during his or her term of Office. This Section
shall not apply to those Officers serving in positions without compensation
except for reimbursement for expenses actually incurred in the performance of
official duties, or to persons acting in place of such Officers; nor shall this
Section apply to an Officer appointed by the Mayor to the position of
Department Head, or interim or acting Department Head, before January 1, 2016,
who immediately, prior to such appointment, was a member of a collective
bargaining unit and who, under the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement, previously lived in the city for ten consecutive years during such
employment but at the time of his or her appointment no longer resided in the
city. If any such Officer shall during his or her term of Office remove from
the city or cease to be a registered voter therein he or she shall be deemed to
have become disqualified from holding his or her Office as of the date of such
removal or such cessation. Each Officer affected by this Section shall, upon
his or her acceptance of Office or within the six months next following
thereupon, and annually on March 1 thereafter, in writing and under the
penalties of perjury, certify to the City Clerk that he or she is both a
resident and a registered voter of the city, and accompany such certification
with two proofs of residency. A copy of every such certificate shall be
transmitted by the City Clerk to the Office of Human Resources and the Boston
Residency Compliance Commission within five business days of filing. If, upon
the expiration of the six months next following his or her acceptance of
Office, and annually after March 1 thereafter, any such Officer shall not have
so certified to the City Clerk that he or she is both a resident and a
registered voter of the city, or shall have so falsely certified, he or she
shall be deemed disqualified from holding his or her Office, and the City Clerk
shall forthwith so notify the Mayor, the City Council, the Office of Human
Resources and the Collector-Treasurer. Upon receipt of such notification the
Collector-Treasurer shall strike from the payroll the name of any such Officer
and shall cause no further payments of salary or other compensation to be made
thereto. A person who falsely certifies as to his or her residency shall be
fined the sum of $300 for each such false certification filed. No person deemed
disqualified hereunder shall be appointed or elected to any Office subject to
the provisions of this Section for a period of five years next after the date
he or she becomes disqualified. This Section shall not apply to any person in
Office on the date of the adoption of this Section; provided, however, that
this Section shall apply to any such person upon the expiration of his or her
current term of Office whether or not his or her successor shall have been
appointed or elected; and provided further, that this Section shall apply to
any such person who shall be appointed or elected to another Office to which
this Section applies upon the date of his or her acceptance of such other
Office. Those provisions of this Section which require that an Officer be a
registered voter shall not apply to any person who is by law ineligible to vote
if such person shall certify to the City Clerk his or her ineligibility and the
reason therefor.
   (B)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may grant, by petition subject to
ratification by the Residency Compliance Commission, a waiver of the residency
requirement and its related provisions herein if the position to be filled
requires a unique set of skills, which, without lifting the residency
requirement, would render the position difficult to fill within a reasonable
time. The petition to waive the residency requirement must be presented to the
Residency Compliance Commission for ratification by a majority of its
Commissioners. Such waiver may, at the discretion of the Mayor or his or her
designee, be granted for the duration of the appointment or for such other
limited duration, not to exceed 36 months, after which the Officer shall become
a resident of the city and shall not cease to be a resident of the city.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3; Ord. 1973 c. 7; Ord. 1974 c. 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 101;
CBC 1985 5-5.2; Ord. 2014 c. 5; Ord. 2016 c. 2 § 1)
5-5.3   Residency Requirement.
   (A)   Every person first employed by the city on or after July 1, 1976,
shall be a resident of the city, and shall not cease to be a resident of the
city during his or her employment by the city. For the purposes of this
Section, an EMPLOYEE shall be any person receiving monies from the city subject
to withholding taxes by the commonwealth or federal government, except
principal employees and Officers subject to the provisions of Subsection 5-5.2
hereof. All persons promoted by the city on or after July 1, 1976, shall be, or
within one year of such promotion become, a resident of the city as defined
herein. Failure to do so shall be determined to be a voluntary termination of
employment.
   (B)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any current sworn
member of the command staff of the Boston Police Department or senior
management appointee in the Boston Fire Department who immediately prior to
such appointment was a member of a collective bargaining unit and who, under
the terms of the collective bargaining agreement, previously lived in the city
for ten consecutive years during such employment but at the time of his or her
appointment no longer resided in the city. Any sworn member of the command
staff of the Boston Police Department appointed after January 1, 2016 shall be,
or within the six months next following the date of his or her acceptance of
such appointment shall become, both a resident and registered voter of the city
and each such Officer shall continue to be both a resident and a registered
voter of the city during his or her term of Office.
   (C)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may grant, by petition subject to
ratification by the Residency Compliance Commission, a waiver of the residency
requirement herein if the position to be filled requires a unique set of
skills, which, without lifting the residency requirement, would render the
position difficult to fill within a reasonable time. The petition to waive the
residency requirement must be presented to the Residency Compliance Commission
for ratification by a majority of its Commissioners. Such waiver may, at the
discretion of the Mayor or his or her designee, be granted for the duration of
the employment or for such other limited duration, not to exceed 36 months,
after which the employee shall become a resident of the city and shall not
cease to be a resident of the city.
   (D)   Upon taking employment with the city, and annually on March 1
thereafter, every person subject to this Section shall file with his or her
Department head, or like Officer, a certificate, signed under the pains and
penalties of perjury, stating his or her name, and place of residence, and
accompany such certification with two proofs of residency. A copy of every such
certificate shall be transmitted by the Department head or like Officer to the
Office of Human Resources and the Boston Residency Compliance Commission within
five business days of filing. Upon receipt of a certificate indicating a place
or residence not within the city, or if no such certificate is filed, the
Department head or like Officer shall forthwith strike the name of the employee
from the payroll, that person shall cease to be employed by the city and the
Department head or like Officer shall give notice of his or her action to the
City Clerk, who shall transmit the same to the City Council, the Mayor, the
Office of Human Resources and the Collector-Treasurer. A person who falsely
certifies as to his or her residency shall be fined the sum of $300 for each
such false certification filed. No person so stricken from a payroll shall be
reemployed by the city for a period of five years following the cessation of
his or her employment. Every employee shall be furnished a copy of the
residency ordinance when hired and annually thereafter, but failure to receive
a copy shall not be held to excuse any violation.
   (E)   The City’s Office of Human Resources shall prepare a report on
compliance with the residency requirements herein and submit such report
annually to the City Clerk and the City Council.
   (F)   Any person, acting on behalf of the city who makes payment of wages to
any person stricken from a payroll under the provisions hereof, within one year
of the date of striking, and any person accepting such payment, shall be
punished by a fine of $2 for each dollar so paid or accepted.
   (G)   To the extent permissible by law, no collective bargaining agreement
hereafter entered into by the city shall contain any provision contrary to the
provisions hereof, nor shall the absence of any provision with respect to the
residency of any person hired after the date of such contract be deemed to
prevent enforcement of this Section.
   (H)   To the extent permitted by M.G.L. Chapter 31, every examination held
to establish a Civil Service list for employment by the city shall be
restricted to city residents.
   (I)   In the event that this Section shall be deemed to be in conflict with
a provision of any general or special law, the provision of that general or
special law shall govern, and shall not defeat the application of this Section
with respect to any position not governed by that law.
   (J)   The provisions hereof are severable, and the action of any court of
competent jurisdiction in declaring any part or portion hereof invalid, shall
not act to defeat any remaining part or portion hereof, and any such action
declaring this Section invalid with respect to any position or person shall not
be held to apply to any other person or position.
   (K)   In construing this Section, residence shall be the actual principal
residence of the individual, where he or she normally eats and sleeps and
maintains his or her normal personal and household effects. This Section shall
be deemed to affect both Civil Service and non-Civil Service employees of the
city.
(Ord. 1976 c. 9; CBC 1985 5-5.3; Ord. 1994 c. 10 §§ 1-4; Ord. 1995 c. 7 § 1;
Ord. 2016 c. 2 § 2)
5-5.4   Selection Process for Applicant for Provisional or Temporary Positions.
   (A)   No appointment on a provisional or temporary basis made to any
position in a city or County Agency, Department or Commission or in any Agency
funded to the extent of 50% or more by funds whose expenditure by law requires
approval of the City Council, unless such appointment is made in compliance
with one of the following.
      (1)   The position is filled by appointment from a duly certified Civil
Service list of eligible candidates for the position established under the
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 31.
      (2)   The position is filled by the Office of Personnel within the
Administrative Services Department in the following manner:
         (a)   An advertisement inviting applications of such positions shall
be placed on one of the first six pages in at least two daily newspapers of
general circulation in the city 30 days prior to the closing date for accepting
such applications, setting forth a period of not less than four weeks during
which applications will be accepted, the closing date for acceptance of
applications; a job description; the specific educational and prior work
experience, including experience in a permanent position within the Department
Agency, if any, actually needed in order to successfully perform the work; the
Office within city or county government to which applications or inquiries may
be made during regular business hours; the proposed salary of such position;
and all other information reasonably relevant to prospective applicant,
including the number of appointments to be made to that position if more than
one;
         (b)   Applicants for such positions in city service shall, at the time
of application, reside within the city, and applicants for such
position in county service shall reside within Suffolk County at the time of
application;
         (c)   Upon expiration of the application period, the names of all
persons meeting such eligibility requirements shall be inscribed on individual
pieces of paper which shall be folded twice and placed in suitable container by
the Supervisor of Personnel or his or her designee; at a public place to which
all such eligible applicants shall be invited, such Supervisor, or his or her
designee, then publicly shall draw out the pieces of paper individually and
announce the names in the order in which they are drawn, and shall thereby
establish the priority order in filling such position or positions;
         (d)   The Supervisor of Personnel shall present to the Mayor, the
Boston City Council and the Auditor, within 15 days after the completion of
each such drawing, a copy of the list of the names so drawn for such position
or positions containing a statement sworn before a notary public and signed by
him or his or her designee, that the procedures set forth in this division (A)
(2) were followed in establishing such list;
         (e)   Persons appointed through the eligibility and drawing process to
positions on a quarterly or semi-annual basis may have reappointment pending
preparation of a qualifying examination for Civil Service tenure in the
position, but such employee shall not serve more than a year in total on a
provisional basis; and
         (f)   If several different positions are to be filled on a provisional
basis, the Supervisor of Personnel may cause them to be listed in a single,
comprehensive advertisement as long as particulars enumerated above are clearly
set forth for each position.
      (3)   No such position shall be filled in any such Agency, except in
accordance with this Section unless otherwise expressly provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 1977 c 8; Ord. 1979 c. 16 § 1)
   (B)   This Subsection shall not prohibit the reappointment of any person to
the provisional or temporary position held by such person on the effective date
of this Subsection. The effective date of this Subsection is May 16, 1979.
(Ord. 1979 c. 16 § 2; CBC 1985 5-5.4)
5-5.5   Suspension of Employees; Order of Suspension.
   (A)   In the event that employees of the city are to be laid-off or
temporarily suspended from employment, employees who are residents of the city,
as defined in Subsection 5-5.3, shall be laid-off or temporarily suspended last
and those employees who are not residents of the city, as defined in Subsection
5-5.3, shall be laid-off or temporarily suspended first.
   (B)   Any person laid-off or temporarily suspended from employment by the
city as prescribed above may be rehired; provided, however, that those persons
who are residents of the city, as defined in Subsection 5-5.3, shall have
priority with regard to rehire.
   (C)   If the provisions of this Section are in conflict with a contractual
agreement between the employer (City of Boston) and the employee or an
organization recognized to represent said employee, the provisions of the
contractual agreement shall rule. The provisions of this Section shall be
applicable to Civil Service personnel only to the extent permitted by M.G.L.
Chapter 31.
(Ord. 1984 c. 11; CBC 1985 5-5.5)
5-5.6   Bonds of Officers and Subordinates.
   (A)   The Collector-Treasurer, Supervisor of Budgets and the City Auditor,
before, and the City Clerk, within five days after, entering upon the duties of
their respective Offices and annually thereafter and at such other times as the
Mayor shall determine, shall give bond to the city, in the case of the
Collector-Treasurer, in the penal sum of $500,000, in the case of the City
Auditor, and the Supervisor of Budgets, in the penal sum of $100,000, and in
the case of the City Clerk, in the penal sum of $5,000.
   (B)   Every bond given under this Section shall be upon the condition that
the person named therein as principal and all his or her subordinates shall,
while he or she continues in Office, by reappointment, re-election or
otherwise, faithfully discharge their duties and trusts, and safely hold and
lawfully dispose of and account for all money and other property belonging to
the city or county which may come into his or her possession or that of his or
her subordinates; and that he or she shall deliver, according to law, to his or
her successor in Office or such other person as may be authorized to receive
the same all money and other property in his or her possession or that of his
or her subordinates belonging to the city or county. Every bond given under
this Section shall be executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the commonwealth as surety, shall be approved by the Mayor and
shall be filed with the City Auditor, except that the bond of the City Auditor
shall be filed with the Collector-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 102; Ord. 1979
c. 23; CBC 1985 5-5.6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 1, 153
5-5.7   Personal Liability of Auditor and/or Collector-Treasurer.
   In the event city funds are expended, with the approval of the City Auditor
and/or Collector- Treasurer, in a manner contrary to the provisions of a city
ordinance and such Auditor and/or Collector- Treasurer knows such expenditure
to be in contravention of such ordinance, such Auditor and/or Collector-
Treasurer shall be held personally liable in his or her individual capacity for
any such city expenditure; and the Corporation Counsel shall bring civil action
against the person of such Auditor and/or Collector-Treasurer to recover any
funds so expended for the city; in the event the Corporation Counsel fails or
refuses to so proceed against such Auditor and/or Collector-Treasurer the
Boston City Council may retain special counsel to so proceed.
(Ord. 1979 c. 19; CBC 1985 5-5.7)
5-5.8   Bonds Not Required by Statute or Ordinance.
   Every person entrusted with the collection, custody or disbursement of
public monies who is not required by statute or other ordinance to give bond
shall, if the Officer appointing him or her so requires, give before entering
upon the duties of his or her Office or position and annually thereafter and at
such other times as such Officer shall determine, a bond running to the city
or, if such Officer is bonded to the city upon the condition set forth in
Subsection 5-5.6, to such Officer, in such penal sum not exceeding $20,000,
with such surety, and upon such condition as such Officer shall prescribe.
Every bond given under this Section running to the city shall be filed with the
City Auditor.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 3; CBC 1975 T5 § 103; CBC 1985 5-
5.8)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.2
5-5.9   Allowance of Premium as Expense.
   The premium for the surety upon any bond given under Subsection 5-5.6,
Subsection 5-5.8 or Subsection 6-3.4 shall be allowed and paid as an expense of
the Department of which the principal on the bond is an Officer or Employee.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 4; CBC 1975 T5 § 104; CBC 1985 5-
5.9)
Cross-reference:
   CBC 1975, ss 6-3.4
5-5.10   Salary Categories for Certain Offices.
   (A)   (1)   Holders of the following Offices shall receive such annual
salary as shall be fixed by the Mayor within the limits set out below for the
category in which said Office is placed. In fixing such salary, the Mayor shall
consider the salaries paid equivalent Offices by comparable governmental units
elsewhere in the United States, the salary necessary to attract or retain
competent individuals in the city’s service and the recommendation of the
Boston Compensation Advisory Board. Such salary shall, except as otherwise
provided by statute or ordinance, be in full for all services rendered to the
city and county, shall be apportionable in the event of service for only part
of the year and shall be subject to deduction for any and all sums due to the
city or county from such Office holder.
         (a)   Category IA shall include the Director of Administrative
Services, the Police Commissioner and the Fire Commissioner, who shall receive
as salary not less than $260,000 and not more than $325,000.
         (b)   Category IB shall include the Corporation Counsel, the
Collector-Treasurer and the Chief Information Officer, who shall receive as
salary not less than $160,000 and not more than $225,500.
         (c)   Category II shall include the Commissioner of Assessing, the
Commissioner of Public Works, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services, the
Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, the Commissioner of Transportation, the
City Auditor and the Commissioner of Property Management, who shall receive as
salary not less than $140,000 and not more than $180,000.
         (d)   Category III shall include the Supervisor of Budgets, the
Supervisor of Personnel, the Supervisor of Labor Relations, the Purchasing
Agent and the City Clerk, who shall receive as salary not less than $120,000
and not more than $175,000.
         (e)   Category IVA shall include the Commissioner of Elderly Affairs,
the Commissioner of Veterans’ Services, the Chair of the Election Commission,
the Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, the Associate Commissioner
of Assessing, the Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Recreation and the Chair and
members of the Board of Review, Chair of the Licensing Board, members of the
Licensing Board and Secretary of the Licensing Board, who shall receive as
salary not less than $110,000 and not more than $160,000.
      (2)   Persons holding the Offices mentioned above shall devote their
entire time during ordinary business hours to their respective duties. No
person holding such an Office or serving in such an Office on an acting or
temporary basis shall receive compensation in the form of overtime. The Mayor
may appoint persons to positions not enumerated in categories herein; provided,
however, that the Department or Agency into which the person is appointed
lawfully exists at the effective date of this Section or is duly established by
statute hereafter by the Legislature or by ordinance in accordance with law;
and provided further, that the assignment of the position to one of the
categories enumerated herein will be made by ordinance, and no position shall
be transferred from category to category except by ordinance.
      (3)   Category V shall set per diem rates as follows: the Chair and each
member of the Board of Appeal in the Inspectional Services Department shall
receive for every day or part thereof of actual service $460; but in no event
shall the Chair or any member of said Board receive in any one calendar year
more than $34,000 in the aggregate for services rendered under the Building
Code, being 780 CMR, and the Zoning Law. The Chair and members of the Board of
Examiners in the Inspectional Services Department shall receive for every day
or part thereof of actual service $287.50, but in no event more than $23,000 in
any one calendar year.
      (4)   The Chair and each member of the Zoning Commission shall receive
for every day or part thereof of actual service, $287.50, but in no event shall
the Chair or any member of said Board receive in any one calendar year more
than $8,625.
      (5)   The Deputy Assessors shall be compensated as if they held an Office
allocated to Grade No. R-19 of the compensation plan, from time to time, in
effect for the county; Assistant Assessors lawfully required to devote at least
35 hours a week to their work shall be compensated as if they held an Office
allocated to Grade No. R-15 of said compensation plan.
   (B)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (C)   The divisions of this Subsection shall be severable, and if any one or
more paragraphs or portions thereof, shall be held invalid by any Court of
competent jurisdiction, the decision of such Court shall not affect or impair
any of the remaining Sections or portions hereof.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 3 § 5; Ord. 1972 c. 13; Ord. 1973 c. 5; Ord.
1974 c. 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 105; Ord. 1979 cs. 12, 20, 25; Ord. 1980 c. 11;
Ord. 1982 cs. 13, 24, 25, 31; Ord. 1983 cs. 15, 16, 27; Ord. 1984 cs. 23, 24;
CBC 1985 5-5.10; Ord. 1986 c. 23 §§ 1-3; [105]; Ord. 1987 c. 2 § 4; Ord. 1993
c. 5 §§ 1, 2; Ord. 1994 c. 17 § 1; Ord. 1995 c. 3 § 3; Ord. 1998 c. 2 § I; Ord.
2002 c. 6 § 3; Ord. 2004 c. 2 § 2; Ord. 2006 c. 3 § 3; Ord. 2006 c. 6 § 2; Ord.
2006 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 4; Ord. 2018 c. 6 §§ 3, 4, 5, 6, 8; Ord. 2022 c. 8
§§ 3, 4, 5, 6, 7; Ord. 2022 c. 10 §§ 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
5-5.10A   Boston Compensation Advisory Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Boston Compensation Advisory Board
consisting of five members appointed by the Mayor. The Mayor shall annually
designate one member as Chair. Said Board shall study the adequacy of salaries
and expenses of the Mayor, members of the City Council, members of the School
Committee, members of Boards, Commissions and Authorities in the city, City
Officers whose compensation is set or subject to approval by the Mayor and
Boston City Council and other Senior Municipal Officials not covered by
collective bargaining agreements. At least two members of the Board shall have
demonstrated experience in the field of personnel management.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed to the Board on a staggered basis. When the
Board is first established, the member designated by the Mayor as initial Board
Chair shall be appointed for a term of five years. The remaining members shall
be appointed to initial terms of four years, three years, two years and one
year, respectively. Thereafter, each member shall be appointed for a term of
five years. Each member shall serve until June 30 of the year in which his or
her term expires and until the member’s successor is appointed and approved.
Vacancies in the Board shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The
Supervisor of Personnel shall serve, ex officio, as a non-voting member of the
Board and shall provide secretarial support and clerical assistance, including,
but not limited to, printing and duplicating services.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at least once a year and shall, in each even-
numbered year, report its recommendation to the Mayor, Boston City Council and
School Committee by the first Wednesday in March by filing the same with the
City Clerk. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Board from filing
recommendations on any subject within its jurisdiction at any time between the
required biennial reporting periods. Notwithstanding any other requirement of
this Subsection, the Board shall, not later than 30 days after the time when it
is first established, study the adequacy of all salaries of City Officers whose
compensation is set by ordinance and whose salary is subject to approval of the
Mayor and City Council, and report its conclusions and recommendations to the
Mayor, Boston City Council and School Committee within said 30 days. Members of
the Board shall be deemed special municipal employees. The members of said
Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for their
expenses actually and necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(CBC 1985 5-5.10A; Ord. 1986 c. 15 § 1)
5-5.11   Provisions Regarding Holdovers.
   (A)   The term HOLDOVER as used herein shall mean a person appointed by the
Mayor pursuant to statute or ordinance, as head of a Department, Board, Agency,
Commission, Authority or Office, or as a member of any such Department, Board,
Agency, Commission, Authority or Office, for a term, the duration of which is
fixed, including those who are subject to the provisions of Sections 9 through
14 of Chapter 486 of the Acts of 1909, as amended, and those subject to the
provisions of Chapter 473 of the Acts of 1953, as these statutes have been
amended and are now in force, who, having served the term, or initial term;
provided by such statute or ordinance, is continuing to serve in the Office or
position to which appointed, during the pleasure of the Mayor, or is continuing
to serve in the Office or position to which appointed pending reappointment, or
pending appointment and qualification of a successor.
   (B)   Any person who is a holdover for 60 days or more in compensated
position, including those who are compensated on a per diem basis, shall be
compensated while a holdover at the rate of $1 per year, apportioned for length
of service and such compensation shall be in full for all services rendered to
the city and county, notwithstanding the existence of any ordinance (including
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Subsection 5-5.10 and
Subsection 5-5.13). This Section shall not apply to an Office or position
occupied by a holdover in an Office or position which is subject to
confirmation by the Boston City Council if the Mayor has transmitted the
appointment to the Boston City Council and the Council has failed to act
thereon.
(Ord. 1978 c. 2; CBC 1985 5-5.11)
5-5.12   County Officers.
   The Officers of the County of Suffolk shall be paid the salaries and
allowances provided by law. (Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 106;
CBC 1985 5-5.12)
5-5.13   Temporary Officers.
   Every Officer temporarily holding, or performing the duties of, more than
one Office shall receive the salary for the highest paid of such Offices;
provided, however, that any Officer permanently holding an Office compensated
for overtime, who is appointed temporarily to an Office established in
Subsection 5-5.10 shall not during that appointment be eligible to receive
overtime in either Office.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 107; Ord. 1980 c. 11; CBC 1985 5-
5.13)
5-5.14   Vacation and Other Absence.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department receiving a salary from the city
shall be entitled to a vacation of two weeks, without loss of pay, during each
year of service, and the Mayor may grant additional leave of absence, with or
without loss of pay, to such Officer.
(R.O. 1885 c. 4 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 108; CBC 1985
5-5.14)
5-5.15   Boards to Organize First Monday of May.
   Every Board shall, unless otherwise provided, organize on the first Monday
in May annually by the choice of one of its members as Chair, and by the choice
of a secretary, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his or her
duties.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 109; CBC 1985 5-5.15)
5-5.16   Office Hours.
   Except as otherwise ordered by the Mayor under Subsection 2-7.10, the
Collector-Treasurer shall daily have an Office open for the receipt and
disbursement of money from 9:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. and every other Officer in
charge of a Department shall daily have an Office open for the transaction of
public business for not less than eight hours; provided, however, that every
public Office in the city shall remain closed on all Sundays and legal holidays
and may remain closed on all Saturdays, except that the Board of Health and
Hospitals shall have an Office open for the issuance of burial permits and
permits for the removal of dead bodies from 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. on
every day in the year.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 9; Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 3 § 10;
CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 10; CBC 1985 5-5.16)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.10; Ord. ss 6-3.5
5-5.17   Records of Acts and Doings of Departments.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall keep records of the acts and
doings of the Department, in books kept specially for the purpose, including a
book in which he or she shall record all contracts, and all changes and
alterations made in contracts or specifications, for work and materials
furnished for his or her Department, and shall keep files of its papers, and a
book showing the property belonging to or used by the Department, such book to
be corrected at the beginning of each financial year. The records of the
proceedings of every Board shall be made by the secretary upon the day of the
meeting, shall state the names of the members present and shall be read and
submitted for approval at the next meeting.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 111; CBC 1985 5-5.17)
5-5.18   Employment, Compensation and Tenure of Subordinates.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall to the best of his or her
ability cause all statutes, ordinances, regulations and orders relating to the
duties of his or her Department to be observed and enforced, and subject to the
Civil Service laws and rules, when applicable, shall employ, fix the
compensation of and may discharge for such cause as he or she shall deem
sufficient and cause to be recorded in the records of his or her Department,
all subordinates in this Department; [provided, however, that none but citizens
shall be employed in any capacity except that alien physicians and nurses may
be employed in a hospital or other health care institution under the charge of
the Board of Health and Hospitals;] and provided further, that no emergency,
provisional, temporary, intermittent, permanent or other appointment, transfer
or promotion nor any reinstatement except upon the expiration of a suspension
or a valid leave of absence, nor any increase in the compensation, nor any
change in the title or rating, of any subordinate shall take effect until
approved in writing by the Director of Administrative Services except in cases
where the Mayor by a writing orders otherwise. The Director of Administrative
Services shall file each day with the Mayor a copy of all approvals given by
him or her on the preceding day under this Section.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 5; Ord. 1969 c. 5; Ord. 1972 c. 20 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup.
1971) c. 3 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 112; CBC 1985 5-5.18)
Editor’s note:
   The bracketed portion is unconstitutional Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U.S. 634;
93 S.Ct. 2842 (1973).
5-5.19   Reimbursement of Legal Expenses to City Employees Incurred Within the
Scope of Employment.
   (A)   No city employee shall be represented by the Corporation Counsel nor
shall any City Agency make any payment for legal services to such city
employee, except in matters arising within the scope of the employee’s duties
as a city employee.
   (B)   No City Agency shall make any payment for legal services rendered to a
city employee by private counsel in connection with any criminal or
administrative proceeding or investigation arising from an alleged violation of
the law by such employee; provided that if such employee is fully exonerated or
such proceedings or investigation is terminated without findings or action
against such employee, and the matter arose within the scope of the employee’s
duties as a city employee, the cost of such legal services may be reimbursed by
the city upon approval of the Corporation Counsel.
   (C)   This Section shall not apply to employees of law enforcement
Departments within the city and/or Suffolk County.
   (D)   Any employee who seeks payment from the city for legal expenses
incurred in a criminal matter shall post a bond equal to the amount of the
payments or shall offer collateral sufficient to secure the amount of the
payments made by the city. This is to ensure that the city can recover the
amount it has paid for legal services should the employee not be fully
exonerated.
(Ord. 1982 c. 34 §§ 1-4; CBC 1985 5-5.19)
5-5.20   Paid Parental Leave for City Employees.
   (A)   The city shall implement paid parental leave for all of its exempt
female and male employees and all other employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements whose agreements explicitly provide for this benefit for
the employee, for the purpose of caring for his or her newborn or newly adopted
child or children. This leave shall apply equally to parents regardless of
gender, as well as to same-sex couples, in the event of a natural birth by any
method, adoption, surrogacy and loss of pregnancy. Employees who have worked
for the city for a minimum of one year are eligible for the full duration of
paid parental leave.
   (B)   The paid parental leave shall be up to 12 weeks long, and may be taken
by day or week anytime during the first year after the birth or adoption of the
child or children. The leave period is fixed regardless of the number of
children born or adopted by the employee. During the leave period, the employee
shall be paid 100% of his or her base wages for the first four weeks, 75% of
his or her base wages for the following four weeks and 50% of base wages for
the remaining four weeks. Employees shall be eligible to use any accrued leave
in order to receive compensation up to 100% of base pay during the weeks
reimbursed at the rates of 75% and 50%. This paid leave will occur concurrently
with and count towards the following leaves for which the employee may be
eligible: the federally mandated 12 weeks of Family and Medical Leave Act
(“FMLA”, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 2611 et seq.) leave, eight weeks of Massachusetts
Parental Leave Act (“MPLA”, being M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 105D, and M.G.L.
Chapter 151B, Section 4(11A)) leave and up to 12 months of unpaid leave due to
childbirth, adoption or loss of pregnancy offered by the city.
   (C)   The number of paid parental leave periods employees may take is
unlimited over the duration of their employment with the city, but employees
are only eligible for one 12-week paid leave per birth, adoption or loss of
pregnancy.
   (D)   If both parents work for the city, each is entitled to a 12-week leave
period as described in division (B) above and they may take their parental
leave periods concurrently, subsequently or in any other combination they wish.
   (E)   The Director of Human Resources for the city shall have full authority
to issue policies relative to paid parental leave benefits offered pursuant to
this Section for any purpose, including, but not limited to, notification
requirements for employees requesting leave, employee eligibility and
documentation requirements for births, adoptions or loss of pregnancy.
(Ord. 1984 c. 36; CBC 1985 5-5.20; Ord. 2015 c. 3; Ord. 2021 c. 10 § 1)
5-5.21   To Expend Gifts as Directed.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall expend any contribution,
payment, gift, devise or bequest in accordance with the directions attached
thereto.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 113; CBC 1985 5-5.21)
5-5.22   Personal Property Not Required by Department.
   If the Officer in charge of any Department shall at any time have the care,
custody and management of any personal property belonging to the city which is
not required for the purposes of such Department, he or she shall by a writing
executed in triplicate, one copy of which shall be retained by him or her, one
copy filed with the City Auditor and one copy delivered to the Purchasing Agent
transfer the care, custody and management of such personal property to the
Purchasing Agent, who, if such personal property is required for the purposes
of another Department, shall by a writing executed in like manner transfer the
care, custody and management thereof to the Officer in charge of such
Department and, if such personal property is not so required and he or she
estimates the value thereof not to exceed $500, may, with the written approval
of the Mayor lease, sell or otherwise dispose of same at such time, for such
price and in such manner as he or she shall adjudge most advantageous to the
city.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 114; CBC 1985
5-5.22)
5-5.23   Inspection and Certificate by Weigher.
   Every Officer, except the Commissioner of Public Works, when contracting
for, or accepting delivery of, fuel, or stone, gravel, sand or ballast from a
vessel, shall require that it be weighed and inspected by a duly authorized
weigher or measurer, and that the bill therefor shall be accompanied by the
certificate of such weigher or measurer.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 10; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 115; CBC
1985 5-5.23)
5-5.24   Printing and Office Supplies.
   The Board in charge of the Library Department may, and the Officer in charge
of every other Department shall, when material or supplies of any kind,
including printing and binding, are required, obtain the same from the
Purchasing Agent by requisition in writing on forms furnished by said Agent,
who shall cause to be included in the annual report of the Administrative
Services Board a statement of the cost of all printing, binding and other
material and supplies furnished each Department.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 7; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 116; CBC 1985
5-5.24)
5-5.25   Settlement of Claims.
   (A)   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall immediately make a
report in writing to the Law Department whenever any transaction, act or
negligence of the Department in his or her charge occurs which results in, or
may occasion the bringing of, a claim against the city. All claims against the
city or any Department thereof shall be transmitted to the City Clerk for
reference to the Corporation Counsel, who, by himself or herself or his or her
assistants, shall make an investigation of the claim, and for this purpose
shall be furnished, on request, with all necessary Departmental books, papers
or records, and may require any official or employee of a Department who may
have information concerning such claims to attend any hearing thereon. The
Corporation Counsel shall have authority to settle any such claim, subject to
the approval of the Mayor. However, no such settlement shall be made for an
amount exceeding $500.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall affect the provisions of these
ordinances respecting the settlement of claims upon which suits have been
entered.
(Ord. 1866 c. 2; Ord. 1914 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 17; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 §
117; Ord. 1980 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-5.25)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-8.1; Ord. ss 6-1.6
5-5.26   Fees and the Like Received for Services.
   Every Officer or employee receiving a salary from the city, who receives for
his or her services as such Officer or employee any other salary, or any fees,
charges or commission, shall pay such other salary, fees, charges and
commissions into the City Treasury, as the property of the city; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to the fees received by the City
Clerk under M.G.L. Chapter 131 or Acts in amendment or addition thereto; and
any Officer or employee through whom, or for whose supplies, sales or services
as such Officer or employee, or for any notes, securities, leases or other
agreements in his or her custody, payments are due or to be made to the city,
or to him or her for the city, shall keep suitable books and accounts of all
such dues and payments, and shall, unless otherwise specially provided by law,
on or before the fifth day of every month send to the Auditor a statement of
the total amount of such payments made to him or her, or which have become due
since the date of the last statements or which will become due within a month
from said day, and deliver to the Collector-Treasurer all such money paid to
him or her, and bills of such dues and, unless authorized to the contrary by
the Collector-Treasurer, shall furnish therewith, in suitable books with proper
details, alphabetical lists by wards of such moneys and bills, with the columns
and figures added and carried forward continuously to the end of the lists.
(R.O. 1885 c. 15 § 7; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 11; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 18; CBC 1975
T5 § 118; CBC 1985 5-5.26)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-8.1; Ord. ss 6-3.1; M.G.L. Chapter 131
5-5.27   Bills and Demands Sent to Auditor.
   (A)   Every person selling any goods to, doing any work for or rendering any
services to, the city or the County of Suffolk, shall submit his or her bill or
demand for the same to the City Auditor in such form as said Auditor may
require. The Board or Officer contracting for such work, goods or services
shall certify to the City Auditor, at such time and in such form as said
Auditor may require, that such work has been done, goods delivered or services
rendered, as the case may be, and that payment therefor, in a specified amount,
should be made. This Section shall not apply to the payment of the salary or
wages of any Officer or employee.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 1980, every bill rendered by vendors or contractors
to the city or County of Suffolk for payment for goods, services, provisions or
other articles supplied in quantity shall clearly itemize the number and unit
cost on the statement submitted for payment and shall separately itemize
additional charges, gratuities, taxes and the like, which are properly to be
included in the total sum requested. If such sum is to be reduced by discount
or other allowances, these shall clearly be listed and applied as adjustment.
   (C)   This Section shall apply to all services, goods and provisions,
including those supplied by food catering services, and obtained through
purchase orders, service orders or payments against contractual reserves in any
budget of City Agencies and Agencies funded wholly or in part by federal funds
or commonwealth funds.
(Ord. 1949 c. 9 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 119; Ord.
1980 c. 10; CBC 1985 5-5.27)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.3; ss 6-1.4
5-5.28   Certification by City Auditor.
   No Officer in charge of a Department shall incur any obligation payable from
the treasury of the city unless the City Auditor shall have certified on the
document intended to evidence such obligation that an appropriation in the
amount of such obligation is available therefor, and no contract, purchase
order or service order shall be deemed to have been made until the City Auditor
shall have so certified.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3; Ord. 1972 c. 11 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 120; CBC 1985 5-
5.28)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.1; ss 6-3.5
5-5.29   Pay Rolls.
   The pay rolls of all Departments, Divisions, Offices and Bureaus of the city
and county shall be prepared on forms furnished by the Auditing Department and
shall be certified, approved, audited and paid in conformity with the system
and procedure established, from time to time, by the City Auditor.
(Ord. 1945 c 12; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 20; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 121; CBC 1985 5-
5.29)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.3
5-5.30   Conditions in License of Permits.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department issuing a license or permit shall
insert therein a condition that the person accepting the same shall conform to
the statutes and ordinances and the specifications in the license or permit;
that such person, corporation or business entity has signed an affidavit
informing the Department issuing the permit or license of any and all
Occupational Safety and Health Administration violations, currently outstanding
or resolved; that the license or permit may be revoked at any time by the
authority issuing it; that the violation of any of its specifications shall
work an immediate revocation of the license or permit; and that such person
shall indemnify and save harmless the city from any damage it may sustain, or
be required to pay, by reason of the doing of the work licensed or permitted,
or by reason of any act or neglect of himself or herself or of any of his or
her employees relating to such work, or by reason of any violation of any
specifications; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the insertion of any other specifications deemed advisable by the
authority issuing such license or permit.
(R.O. 1890 c. 3 § 21; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 21; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 122; CBC
1985 5-5.30; Ord. 2016 c. 18 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 11-6.11; Ord. Chapters XIV, XVI, XVII, XVIII of the City of Boston
Code Ordinances
5-5.31   Subordinate Acting Temporarily for Officer.
   Any Officer may, with the approval of the Mayor, by a writing deposited with
the City Auditor, or in the case of the City Auditor with the Collector-
Treasurer, designate a subordinate, who shall, for such time, not exceeding one
year from the date of such designation, as shall be specified in the writing,
be authorized to perform the duties required of such Officer, and for the acts
of such subordinate such Officer shall be responsible. Such designation may be
in the form of a signature card or such other form as the City Auditor shall,
from time to time, determine.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 8; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 11; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 22; CBC 1975
Ord. T5 § 123; CBC 1985 5-5.31; Ord. 1995 c. 4 §§ 1, 2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.1; ss 6-3.4
5-5.32   Mandatory Referral of Capital Improvements.
   Every Board and Officer of the City and of the County of Suffolk having
power to incur, in carrying on the work of the Department, Office or
undertaking entrusted to it or him or her, obligations payable from the
Treasury of the city, shall submit to the Boston Redevelopment Authority on or
before October 1 in each year a list of all capital improvements proposed to be
made in carrying on the work of such Department, Office or undertaking in the
six succeeding years; and no such Board or Officer shall request the Mayor to
originate any appropriation or loan order for any capital improvements unless
within the preceding six months such Board or Officer has referred such capital
improvement to the Boston Development Authority and requested said authority to
report specifically upon such capital improvement and accompanies the request
to the Mayor with the report of said Authority thereon or certifies that said
Authority was duly requested to report specifically on such capital improvement
but has allowed two months to elapse without making such report. As used in
this Section, the term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT shall be construed to mean an
acquisition, improvement, construction or installation for which the city is
authorized to incur debt for a period of ten years or more.
(St. 1960 c. 652 § 12; Ord. 1952 c. 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 23; CBC 1975 Ord.
T5 § 124; CBC 1985 5-5.32)
5-5.33   Estimates of Appropriations and Income.
   (A)   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall annually, on or before
November 1, send to the Mayor an estimate in detail of the appropriations
required for such Department for the next financial year, and an estimate of
the income of such Department during said year.
   (B)   Department and Agency heads and employees of the Budget Division of
the Administrative Services Department, when testifying before the Boston City
Council or a Committee thereof concerning an appropriate order pending before
the Council in accordance with CBC St. T. 6, S 251, or a loan order or an order
approving the expenditure of funds received from the commonwealth or federal
governments, shall do so under oath and subject to the penalties of perjury in
accordance with the procedure set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 233, Section 8, and
such testimony shall be recorded by a stenographer, excepting when the Council
or a Committee to which the examination of any Department or Agency budget is
assigned by express vote authorizes the dispensation of said requirement for
sworn testimony and stenographic record.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 25; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 125; Ord. 1980 c. 15; CBC 1985 5-
5.33)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.8
5-5.34   Annual Reports of Departments.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department shall, within 30 days after the
close of the financial year, transmit to the Mayor a report containing a
statement of the acts and doings, and receipts and expenditures, of the
Department for such financial year, together with such other matters as may be
required by law, or as the Mayor or Officer may deem to be of public interest.
Every Board within a Department not subject to the supervision or control of
the Officer in charge of the Department shall make an annual report containing
a statement of its acts and doings and such other matters as may be required by
law or as it or the Mayor may deem to be of public interest, which report shall
be annexed by the Officer in charge of the Department as an appendix to his or
her annual report.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 12; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 25; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 126; CBC
1985 5-5.34)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.8; Ord. ss 11-1.1; Ord. ss 12-3.2; Printing of Reports, 5-1.10
5-5.35   Notice of Illness of Inmates of Public Institutions.
   Every Officer or Board in charge of a public institution shall, in case of
serious illness of any inmate of such institution, notify or cause to be
notified, promptly, the nearest relatives or friends of such inmate.
(Ord. 1900 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 3 § 27; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 127; CBC 1985 5-
5.35)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 12-8.3
5-5.36   Equal Opportunity Policy.
   No Officer of the city shall deny to any person access to opportunity,
including without limitation employment, educational and recreational
opportunity, solely by reason of sex or gender identity or expression. It shall
be the policy of the city to afford to every person equal access to
opportunity, including without limitation employment, educational and
recreational opportunity.
(Ord. 1974 c. 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 128; CBC 1985 5-5.36; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
5-5.37   Public Access to Computerized Information.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any ordinance to the contrary, all information
gathered for or stored in computerized, data processing, “mini computers”,
punch card data banks or any other retrieval systems operated, leased or owned
by any City Agency shall be considered as public records under the law. This
Section shall apply to operations in Little City Halls and every City Agency
financed in part or whole with federal funds.
   (B)   This Section shall apply to information in the aforesaid systems
relating to City Agencies, whether stored centrally, in a network informational
system or a data bank located any distance outside Boston. Upon the written
request of any citizen, City Agency or news media representative, information
shall be produced within a reasonable time for inspection and a record copy
issued at cost. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a right in other
than the City Agency owning or operating said data bank to request information
through other than an existing city owned or leased computer program or to
reprogram said computer system.
   (C)   This Section shall not apply to any data or information exempt from
disclosure by commonwealth or federal law or rule of court and is subject to
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 66A or any similar federal law.
(Ord. 1979 c. 9; CBC 1985 5-5.37)
5-5.38   Public Information Officer; Prohibition of.
   On or after July 1, 1980, no person shall be paid from city funds, no matter
the source, for public relations or public information purposes, unless the
person receiving such payment is employed by the city in accordance with M.G.L.
Chapter 31 as a Public Information Officer, or as an employee under the
supervision of such an Officer; nor shall any person be employed as a Public
Information Officer unless a specific appropriation has first been made for
such position by order of the City Council. Public Information Officers so
employed shall receive an annual salary of not less than $15,000 nor more than
$20,000.
(Ord. 1980 c. 4; CBC 1985 5-5.38)
5-5.39   Comparable Worth Commission.
   (A)   There shall be hereby established in the city “the Comparable Worth
Commission”, herein after referred to as the “CWC”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Subsection, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPARABLE WORTH. The equalization of the salary levels of employment for
males, females and minorities in similar or comparable job positions in the
employ of the city, its Departments, Agencies, Boards, Commissions and/or
Offices.
      COMPARABLE WORTH COMMISSION or CWC. The Commission of the city created by
this Subsection.
      PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT OF THE CITY. The Department within the structure of
the city that deals with matters of employment, its successors or assigns.
      RECLASSIFICATION AND PAY EQUITY STUDY. The study conducted by a private
consultant hired by the Office of Personnel Management to examine and
reclassify the city’s job positions.
   (C)   (1)   The CWC shall consist of 15 members, appointed by the Mayor, to
serve staggered terms of one and two years. The members of the CWC shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Six persons who are representatives of municipal labor unions
and women’s advocacy organizations. Due consideration shall be given to appoint
individuals who have a record of involvement with issues related to comparable
worth;
         (b)   Two persons who are employed in the private sector;
         (c)   The Supervisor of the City of Boston Office of Labor Relations,
to serve ex officio;
         (d)   The Mayor’s Advisor on Women’s Issues, to serve ex officio;
         (e)   The Director of the City of Boston Office of Personnel
Management, to serve ex officio;
         (f)   The Director of the City of Boston Affirmative Action Office, to
serve ex officio;
         (g)   The Director of the City of Boston Office of Budget and Program
Evaluation, to serve ex officio;
         (h)   The Equal Rights Advisory to the Mayor, to serve ex officio; and
         (i)   A member of the Boston City Council designated by the President
of the City Council.
      (2)   Members of the CWC shall serve without compensation and shall be
designated special municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (D)   The CWC shall provide advice on issues related to comparable worth to
the Office of Personnel Management during the conduct of the reclassification
and pay equity study. During the course of the study, the Office of Personnel
Management shall consult with the CWC, or a subcommittee thereof, at CWC’s
request upon reasonable notice, and shall provide access to information related
to comparable worth issues, also at CWC’s request upon reasonable notice, prior
to the Office of Personnel Management’s making decisions on comparable worth
issues. The Supervisor of the Office of Labor Relations, the Commissioner of
the Women’s Commission and, where appropriate, other Administration Officials,
shall provide CWC with assistance at CWC’s request upon reasonable notice. The
CWC shall meet at least monthly at the call of the Chair. Notwithstanding any
other provision herein to the contrary, powers with respect to the executive
and administrative business of the city remain with the Mayor, and he or she
does not hereby delegate those powers to any person or entity.
   (E)   This Section shall take effect upon its passage.
(CBC 1985 5-5.39; Ord. 1987 c. 1, §§ 1-5; Ord. 1988 c. 12, §§ 1-5)
5-5.40   Notification of Employees Regarding Municipal Ethics Laws.
   Upon taking employment, a promotion and when leaving employment, every
employee of the city shall be furnished a copy of the handbook, Introduction To
The Conflict Of Interest Law for City Of Boston Employees, by the Human
Resources Department, outlining the pertinent municipal ethics requirements
under M.G.L. Chapter 268A. A Department Head shall explain relevant Sections to
an employee and provide a certificate stating that an employee has received and
read this handbook. Thereafter, a copy of each certificate shall be transmitted
by the Department Head to the city’s Human Resources Department within five
business days, and in the case of the Boston City Council or the City Clerk’s
Office, to the Staff Director of the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1985 5-5.40; Ord. 1997 c. 7)
5-5.41   Reporting Requirements to the City Retirement Board.
   (A) The city’s Office of Human Resources, Workers’ Compensation division and
every Officer in charge of a City Public Safety Department shall provide a copy
of a notice of injury to the Boston Retirement Board within six months of
receipt of notice of any injury alleged to have arisen out of and in the course
of employment that incapacitates an employee from earning full wages for a
period of five or more calendar days.
   (B)   Every Officer in charge of a City Department shall file the statements
required by 840
CMR 10.07 with the Boston Retirement Board within ten business days, not
including legal holidays, of the date that the Department head receives it.
   (C)   Every Officer in charge of a City Department shall annually, and upon
appointment, attend an approved educational training seminar on disability
retirement, as established and/or designated by the Boston Retirement Board.
   (D)   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective 30 days after
passage.
(CBC 1985 5-5.41; Ord. 2008 c. 17)
5-5.42   Gender Identity Nondiscrimination in Health Care Coverage for City
Employees.
   The city, to the extent permissible by federal and commonwealth law after
this Section is in force, shall not contract with any health insurance company
that refuses to insure any person or that discriminates in the amount of
premium, policy fees or rates charged for any policy or contract of insurance,
or in the benefits payable thereunder, or in any of the terms or conditions of
such contract, because of gender identity or expression.
(CBC 1985 5-5.42; Ord. 2014 c. 6)
5-6   PENSIONS, RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES AND ANNUITIES.
5-6.1   Pension Reserve Fund.
   In order to provide reserves that may be used to offset the anticipated
future costs of funding the contributory retirement systems of the city, the
Boston City Council by majority vote, upon the request of the Mayor, may
appropriate in any fiscal year an amount or amounts in the aggregate in any one
year not exceeding 5% of the real and personal property tax levy of the next
preceding fiscal year. All amounts so appropriated shall be credited to the
Pension Reserve Fund established hereby (the “fund”) of the system provided for
in Section 22 of the Pension Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate
amount of deposit in such fund at any time shall not exceed 10% of the
equalized valuation of the city, as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 1, as
last determined in accordance with law.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.1)
5-6.2   Allocation of the Fund.
   Except as hereinafter provided, amounts appropriated to the fund shall be
applied as provided herein, in the Pension Act and in the Funding Act, to meet
expected future pension costs payable with respect to all employees of the
city. The Boston City Council with the approval of the Mayor may designate by
order all or any portion of the amount appropriated to meet expected future
pension costs payable with respect to employees of particular Departments,
Commissions, Agencies, Boards or distinctive parts or units thereof
(hereinafter, collectively, “Departments” or “Department”) of the city;
provided that no amount so specifically designated for a particular Department
in any year shall exceed the amount reasonably expected to be received in that
year on account of fees, charges, payments-in-aid or other Departmental
revenues relating to the activities of or services provided by that Department,
nor shall the amount so specifically designated for any year for any particular
Department exceed the sum of the amounts (determined in accordance with
recognized actuarial methods) which are:
   (A)   Normal pension costs on an accrual basis for that year for the
employees of that Department, including, if so provided in the order, an
allocation relating to such employees of other Departments as provide overhead,
support or ancillary service to the Department, in proportion such other
Department provides service to the Department who are members of the system;
and
   (B)   The annual amount required to amortize in not less than 20 years the
unfunded past service liability attributable to such employees of that
Department, or such other Departments.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.2)
5-6.3   Use and Maintenance of the Fund.
   As provided in the Funding Act, all sums appropriated to the fund shall be
appropriated and used only for the purpose of offsetting the anticipated future
cost of funding the contributory retirement systems of the city. Separate sub-
accounts shall be maintained in the fund for each Department for which
appropriations have been specially designated and the Collector-Treasurer shall
maintain all monies so specially designated in the sub-account established
therefor. The Collector-Treasurer shall maintain all other monies appropriated
hereunder in a general account within the fund.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.3)
5-6.4   Custody of the Fund.
   The Collector-Treasurer may enter into one or more custodial arrangements
for safekeeping and investment, in whole or in part, of the fund with one or
more banks or trust companies the principal Offices of which are located in the
city. Amounts in the fund shall be deposited and invested, at the direction of
the Collector-Treasurer, as provided in the Pension Act and the Funding Act.
Interest and other investment earnings on any amounts appropriated to the fund
shall be credited to the account or sub-account within the fund on which they
are earned.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.4)
5-6.5   Appropriation of Fund Monies.
   Amounts appropriated to the fund in accordance with this Section, and
interest and other income thereon, may be applied in any fiscal year, upon
appropriation, to offset amounts certified by the Board of the system under the
Pension Act, or any successor provision of law, as necessary to be paid for
such fiscal year to the funds of the system; provided that no such
appropriation from the fund or any account therein shall exceed the amount,
certified by the Collector-Treasurer upon the advice of the City Auditor, of
the pension liability for which the amount to be so appropriated was reserved.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.5)
5-6.6   Fund Not to Vest, and the Like.
   This Section is not intended to, and shall not, create rights or
entitlements of any kind in the establishment or funding of the fund, in
amounts appropriated thereto or held therein in accordance with this Section,
or in the disbursement or disposition of any such amounts, in favor of any
member of the system or any other employee of the city. If the limitation on
this Section stated in this Section shall be ineffective as a result of any
existing or future provision of law or any final judicial or administrative
determination, this Section shall be void and all amounts theretofor
appropriated to and then held in the fund in accordance with this Section, and
all interest and other income thereon, shall be transferred without further
appropriation to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.6)
5-6.7   Construction.
   This Section shall be liberally construed to further the purposes of the
Funding Act and shall be deemed and construed to be supplemental and additional
to, and not in derogation of, all powers conferred on the city by law.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.7)
5-6.8   Custodial Accounts, Deposits.
   In accordance with this Section, a separate sub- account shall be
established and maintained in the fund into which shall be deposited and
segregated all amounts on deposit on the effective date of this Section. All
such amounts so deposited, and interest earnings thereon, are hereby designated
in accordance with this Section to meet expected future pension costs payable
with respect to employees of the Department of Health and Hospitals. All
actions of the Collector-Treasurer and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals
heretofore taken in establishing such custodianship account, and the deposit
therein during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1981, on account of pension costs
of said Department in the prior fiscal year of cash and securities in the
amount of $9,737,000 and the deposit therein during the fiscal year ended June
30, 1982, on account of pension costs of said Department in the prior fiscal
year of $2,500,000, and the accumulation in said account of the interest
earnings on such amounts, is hereby ratified and confirmed, and all such
amounts shall be deemed, and are, transferred and appropriated as of their
respective dates of deposit for the purposes of the fund and the sub-account
therein designated for the Department of Health and Hospitals. The Collector-
Treasurer and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals are hereby authorized
and directed to do all things and execute all instruments as may be required to
transfer the aforesaid custodianship account to the fund and to establish it
therein as a sub-account to be administered in accordance with the provisions
of this Section.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.8)
5-6.9   Severability.
   Except for Subsection 5-6.6, inserted hereunder, the provisions of this
Section are severable and if any provision hereof except said Section shall be
held invalid in any circumstances, such invalidity shall not affect any other
provision or circumstance.
(Ord. 1984 c. 1; CBC 1985 5-6.9)
5-7   BOSTON RETIREMENT BOARD.
5-7.1   Powers and Duties.
   The Boston Retirement Department shall be under the charge of the Boston
Retirement Board, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided
by statute.
(St. 1922 c. 521; St. 1945 c. 658; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 8 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 §
400; CBC 1985 5-7.1)
5-8   LAW DEPARTMENT.
5-8.1   Corporation Counsel.
   The Law Department shall be under the charge of the Corporation Counsel, who
shall furnish opinions on the law of any subject or question that may be
submitted to him or her by the Mayor or the Boston City Council and on any
subject or question relating to the discharge of their or his or her official
duties that may be submitted to him or her by the School Committee, by any
Committee of the City Council, or by four members of the City Council, or by
any Officer in charge of a Department of the city government; provided,
however, that in the event the interests of the Mayor and Council appear to the
Council to be divergent or in conflict, the Council may have the benefit of the
services of special counsel; shall, on application, advise any officer or
employee of the city on any question of law connected with the discharge of his
or her official duties; shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, or of any
Committee of the Boston City Council having charge of matters before the
general court of the commonwealth, appear by himself or herself or assistants
as Counsel for the city before the general court or before any Committee
thereof, when the interest or welfare of the city is directly or indirectly
affected; shall draft and approve the form of all written contracts; shall by
himself or herself or by the city conveyancers examine all titles to real
property which the city is to acquire, and furnish without charge all deeds or
other legal papers necessary for the transfer of property to or from the city
which the city is required by law, or has been accustomed, to so furnish; and
shall audit all bills incurred by the Department; shall, subject to the
direction of the Mayor, institute any suit or proceeding in behalf of the city
which he or she shall deem the interest of the city requires; shall by himself
or herself or by his or her assistants in the Law Department appear as Counsel
in all suits, actions or prosecutions which may involve the rights or interests
of the city, and defend the officers of the city in suits against them for
their official actions, or for the performance of their official duties, or
when any estate, right, privilege, interest, ordinance, act or direction of the
city is brought in question; may take such steps, and incur such expenses, for
the prosecution and defense of suits as he or she deems necessary; shall
examine into the settlement of a claim when requested so to do by the Mayor or
the head of any Department, and, if he or she deems such settlement
advantageous to the city, shall approve the same; and may settle any suit
against the city. All trustees, officers, members, employees and volunteers as
well as every other person who shall, on a part-time and consultative basis,
perform any professional services for the Boston Groundwater Trust, shall be
advised, on application, by the City Law Department on any question of law
connected with the discharge of their official duties. The City Law Department
shall appear as Counsel in any suits, actions or prosecutions which may involve
the rights or interests of the Trust, and defend the trustees, officers,
employees or volunteers of the Trust in suits against them for their official
actions, or for the performance of their official duties, or when any estate,
right, privilege, interest, ordinance, act or direction of the Trust is brought
in question; the City Law Department may take such steps, and incur such
expenses, for the prosecution and defense of suits as the Corporation Counsel
deems necessary; and the City Law Department shall look into the potential
settlement of a claim when requested so to do by the co-chairs of the Trust
and, if the Corporation Counsel deems such settlement advantageous to the
Trust, may settle any claim or suit against the Trust, with the concurrence of
the Board of Trustees of the Trust.
(Ord. June 18, 1827; Ord. April 2, 1866; Ord. March 25, 1882; Rev. Ord. 1961 c.
17 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 450; Ord. 1979 c. 14; CBC 1985 5-8.1; Ord. 2021 c.
16 § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 3 § § 1, 2; Statutes, Title 4 §§ 1, 8; Ord. ss 5-5.25; Ord.
ss 11-7.6
5-8.2   Prohibition.
   No person connected with the Law Department shall, except as hereinbefore
provided, appear in court in any case to which the city is not a party.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 17 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T5 § 451; CBC 1985 5-8.2)
5-9   BOSTON CULTURAL COUNCIL.
5-9.1   Creation; Members; Terms.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 10, Section 58, there
shall be created the Boston Cultural Council composed of a minimum of seven and
no more than 11 members appointed by the Mayor. The Mayor's Office of Arts and
Culture shall provide administrative support to the Council, but those support
staff shall report to the Chief of Arts and Culture.
   (B)   The members shall be City of Boston residents and serve for terms of
three years, provided that no member shall serve more than two consecutive
terms. Upon a vacancy, for any reason, the member's successor, if any, shall be
appointed for a term of three years, and shall serve until the qualification of
such member's successor.
   (C)   The Council members shall have demonstrated scholarship, creativity,
or experience in visual arts, performing arts, literary arts, digital and new
media arts, applied arts, conceptual art, public art, humanities, or
interpretive sciences and shall be broadly representative of all fields of art.
Council membership shall equitably reflect the diversity demographics of the
City of Boston.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.2   Purpose.
   The Boston Cultural Council shall oversee the distribution of funds
allocated by the Massachusetts Cultural Council, a state agency, to support
innovative arts, humanities, and interpretive sciences programming within the
City of Boston as established under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 10,
Section 58.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.3   Election of Officers.
   The members shall elect their own Chairperson, Secretary, and Treasurer on
an annual basis.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.4   Powers and Duties.
   The Boston Cultural Council may enter into contracts with individuals,
organizations, and institutions for services furthering the objectives of the
Council's purpose.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.5   Council Rules and Guidelines.
   The Boston Cultural Council shall promulgate necessary guidelines, rules, or
regulations for the use of state arts funds, other funds, and for its own
operations and procedures.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.6   Application for Funds; Use of Funds.
   (A)   The Boston Cultural Council shall receive applications on a rolling
basis annually and shall determine if said applications for funds comply with
its guidelines, rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Boston Cultural Council shall certify to the City Auditor and
Collector-Treasurer the payment of funds for those applicants who are eligible
upon receipt of vouchers itemizing the use of the funds.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-9.7   Audit of Expenditures.
   The Boston Cultural Council shall conduct an annual audit of the
expenditures of those funds and file a report, and copies of the report, to the
City Clerk no later than three weeks after the close of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 2024 c. 5 § 1)
5-10   RESIDENCY COMPLIANCE.
5-10.1   Residency Compliance Commission.
   (A)   There shall be a Residency Compliance Commission (“Commission”)
comprising seven Commissioners, five to be appointed by the Mayor of Boston so
long as one is a city union representative and two are members of the citizens
group Save Our City; the City’s Affirmative Action Officer shall serve ex
officio, and the Boston City Council President, or such other Councillor
designated, from time to time, by the Council President, shall serve ex
officio. The purpose of the Commission shall be to investigate and make
findings, pursuant to the following provisions, relative to compliance with the
Boston Residency Ordinance, Subsections 5-5.2, 5-5.3 (“Residency Ordinance”)
and to consider whether to grant waivers in accordance with said Residency
Ordinance.
   (B)   All Commissioners, with the exception of the Boston City Council
President, shall serve coterminous with the Mayor and any vacancies shall be
filled by the Mayor of Boston for the unexpired term. The Commissioners shall
annually elect a Commission Chairperson. Commissioners shall serve without
compensation and shall be classified as Special Municipal Employees for
purposes of the commonwealth’s Ethics Law, M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the power to investigate, conduct hearings,
subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, administer oaths, take the
testimony of any person under oath and in connection therewith to require the
production for examination of any documents, books, papers or evidence relating
to any matter in question or under investigation by the Commission. The
Commission may appoint from within or without its membership a Hearing Officer
to conduct particular hearings. Subpoena power shall be exercised by the Chair
of the Commission, or his or her designee, upon majority vote of the
Commission. The employee who is the subject of a hearing shall be afforded
notice and an opportunity to provide testimony, witnesses, documents and to
have counsel present.
   (D)   Should the Commission, after hearing, find that an employee, who is
subject to the Residency Ordinance, does not reside within the city, the
Commission shall issue its findings to the employee’s Department head. The
Commission shall also, with its findings, advise that the employee’s failure to
reside within the city constitutes a voluntary termination of employment under
the Residency Ordinance and said Department Head or appointing authority shall,
consistent with the Residency Ordinance, notify the Treasurer to remove the
employee’s name from the payroll.
   (E)   Semi-annually, the Commission shall provide a written report to the
Mayor, who shall file a copy with the City Council. This report shall include
all investigations and findings by the Commission with respect to the Residency
Ordinance.
(CBC 1985 5-10.1; Ord. 1994 c. 10 § 5; Ord. 2016 c. 2 § 3)
5-10.2   Residency Compliance Unit.
   (A)   There shall be a Residency Compliance Unit (“Compliance Unit”) within
the Office of Human Resources, which shall also have the power to conduct
investigations of city employees and Officers where there is reason to believe
that an employee or Officer may be in violation of the Residency Ordinance.
There shall be not less than one investigator to conduct investigations for
both the Compliance Unit and the Compliance Commission. The Compliance Unit may
hire outside investigators to assist in its investigations.
   (B)   The Compliance Unit shall ensure, pursuant to the Residency Ordinance,
the filing of residency affidavits and submission of additional documentation
to verify residency. It shall also serve as a vehicle whereby employees and the
general public may report those who are believed to be in violation of the
Residency Ordinance. Where questionable claims of residency exist, the
Compliance Unit shall forward such to the Compliance Commission for further
investigation as delineated by Subsection 5-10.1.
(CBC 1985 5-10.2; Ord. 1994 c. 10 § 5; Ord. 2016 c. 2 §§ 4, 5)
CHAPTER VI: GENERAL SERVICES
Section
6-1   AUDITING DEPARTMENT
   
6-1.1   General Duties of City Auditor
   
6-1.2   Payment of Bonds, Executions and Coupons
   
6-1.3   Examination and Approval of Payrolls; Payment of Persons Leaving
Service
   
6-1.4   Examination of Bills and Demands
   
6-1.5   Check or Order for Payment
   
6-1.6   Departmental Charges
   
6-1.7   Monthly Report to Mayor and City Council
   
6-1.8   Annual Report
   
6-1.9   Deputy City Auditor
   
6-1.10   Restriction on Transfer of Appropriated Money
   
6-1.11   Expenditure of Funds in Excess of Those Appropriated
   
6-1.12   Establishing Standard Provisions for Annual Appropriation Orders
6-2   ASSESSING DEPARTMENT
   
6-2.1   Board, Appointment, Term, Divisions of Department
   
6-2.2   Powers and Duties of Commissioner of Assessing
   
6-2.3   Powers and Duties of Associate Commissioners of Assessing
   
6-2.4   Board of Review
   
6-2.5   Application for Abatement
6-3   TREASURY DEPARTMENT
   
6-3.1   Collector-Treasurer
   
6-3.2   Divisions of Department; Appointment of Assistant Collector-Treasurers
   
6-3.3   Appointment of Deputy-Collectors
   
6-3.4   Bonds of Subordinates
   
6-3.5   Collection of Accounts by Collector-Treasurer
   
6-3.6   Custody and Deposit of Funds; Signing Bonds; Treasurer of Sinking Fund
Commissioners
   
6-3.7   Prohibiting Certain Local Investments
   
6-3.7.2   Report on Local Investment
   
6-3.8   Payments of Money by Collector-Treasurer
   
6-3.9   Monthly Reports
   
6-3.10   Payments to Employees and Others
   
6-3.11   Disposition of Gifts, Bequests, Investment Thereof
   
6-3.12   Police Charitable Fund
   
6-3.13   Residential Tax Title Payment Agreements
   
6-3.13(a)   Authority
   
6-3.13(b)   Purpose
   
6-3.13(c)   Definitions
   
6-3.13(d)   Residential Tax Title Payment Agreement
   
6-3.13(e)   Obligation to Pay Current Taxes; Default
   
6-3.13(f)   Public Awareness Efforts
   
6-3.13(g)   Report on Residential Tax Title Payment Agreements
6-4   APPROPRIATIONS AND LOANS
   
6-4.1   Submission of Annual Budget
6-5   FINANCE COMMISSION
6-6   OFFICE OF THE PARKING CLERK
   
6-6.1   Parking Clerk; Appointment and Duties
   
6-6.2   Issuance of Parking Violation Notices
   
6-6.3   Schedule of Fines
   
6-6.4   Payment of Fines
   
6-6.5   Hearings and Appeals
   
6-6.6   Impoundment of Vehicles
   
6-6.7   Nonrenewal of License and Registration
   
6-6.8   Licensed Taxi Cabs and Leased Vehicles
   
6-6.9   Agreements With Other Governmental Agencies
   
6-6.10   Statutes Applicable
6-7   DISABLED VETERANS/HANDICAPPED PARKING
   
6-7.1   Purpose
   
6-7.2   Scope
   
6-7.3   Identification Card
   
6-7.4   Revocation of Designated Parking Space
6-8   MUNICIPAL DEPOSITORIES AND CONTRACTS FOR BANKING SERVICES
   
6-8.1   Definitions
   
6-8.2   Disclosure of Lending Information and Banking Practices
   
6-8.2A   Financial Strength
   
6-8.3   Pledge
   
6-8.4   Statement of Community Investment Goals
   
6-8.5   Failure to Provide Information
   
6-8.6   Municipal Banking and Community Reinvestment Commission
   
6-8.7   Evaluation of Data; Community Reinvestment Performance
   
6-8.8   Public Disclosure
   
6-8.9   Eligibility and Bid Preference
   
6-8.10   Severability Clause
6-9   DEPARTMENTAL REVOLVING FUNDS
   
6-9.1   Purpose
   
6-9.2   Expenditure Limitations
   
6-9.3   Interest
   
6-9.4   Procedures and Reports
   
6-9.5   Authorized Revolving Funds
6-10   LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATIONS
   
6-10.1   Establishing Language and Communications Access for City Services
6-11   GENDER INCLUSION
6-1   AUDITING DEPARTMENT.
6-1.1   General Duties of City Auditor.
   The Auditing Department shall be under the charge of a City Auditor who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, and hold Office, subject to the Civil Service
laws and rules and who shall have the custody of all notes, securities, bonds
given for the faithful performance of a contract, contracts and other
agreements to which the city is a party and for which no other provision is
made, and of all bonds to the city other than the Auditor’s; shall keep a
register of the dates, amounts and sureties on all such bonds, and notify the
Mayor whenever any such bond expires, or whenever he or she is of the opinion
that it is impaired by the insolvency or other disability of a surety; shall
keep a complete set of books, wherein shall be entered the amount of each
specific appropriation and each amount that has been expended on account of
such appropriation; shall cause the accounts of the several Boards, Officers,
Agencies and Departments to be regularly examined annually by competent experts
at such times as the Mayor shall approve; shall notify the Mayor whenever the
expenditures of a Department seem to him or her to be in excess of a proper
monthly ratio of its appropriation; shall, when any appropriation of a
Department has been wholly expended, immediately make a report of that fact to
the Department and to the Mayor; shall have the custody of all bonds and
certificates of indebtedness, and the coupons thereof, issued by the city,
after they have been paid and delivered to him or her by the Collector-
Treasurer; shall direct to the Collector- Treasurer all necessary drafts,
checks or other orders for the payment of money, in such form as the Mayor
shall approve, and forthwith upon completion of each such examination of
accounts, file one copy of his or her report thereof with the City Clerk, who
shall keep the same open to public inspection during regular business hours;
shall keep a registry of, and sign with the Collector-Treasurer, countersigned
by the Mayor, all bonds and certificates of indebtedness of the city issued by
the Collector-Treasurer; and shall, if elected, serve as Secretary of the Board
of Commissioners of Sinking Funds.
(Ord. August 2, 1824; St. 1909 c. 486 §§ 23 - 25; Ord. 1965 c. 2 § 15; Rev.
Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 1; CBC 1985 6-1.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.6
6-1.2   Payment of Bonds, Executions and Coupons.
   The Auditor shall, immediately on receiving any bond of the city from the
Collector-Treasurer, deliver to him or her a check or other order for the
payment of the same; and shall, on the days of receiving executions or coupons
from the Collector-Treasurer, deliver to him or her a draft for the total
amount of the executions, coupons and interest paid by the Collector-Treasurer
to such days.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 2; CBC 1985 6-1.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.5; ss 6-3.8
6-1.3   Examination and Approval of Payrolls; Payment of Persons Leaving
Service.
   The Auditor shall, within 48 hours after the close of the period covered by
any payroll, and after examination thereof, if found correct, approve the same,
and shall deliver to the Collector-Treasurer a draft to pay the amount so
approved; shall at any time, on receiving a proper certificate from the Officer
or Board in charge of a Department, deliver to the Collector-Treasurer a check
or other order to pay the amount due any person in that Department leaving the
service of the city.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 3; CBC 1985 6-1.3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.27, 5-5.28, 5-5.29; Ord. ss 6-3.8, ss 6-3.12
6-1.4   Examination of Bills and Demands.
   (A)   The Auditor shall examine every bill and demand rendered against the
city or the county and shall ascertain whether the following facts exist.
      (1)   Such bill or demand has been incurred by some person duly
authorized.
      (2)   Funds appropriated for the purpose are on hand in sufficient amount
for the payment of such bill or demand.
      (3)   The clerical computations involved in such bill or demand are
correct.
      (4)   The certificate prescribed by Subsection 5-5.27 has been furnished.
   (B)   If the Auditor finds that all of said facts exist, he or she shall
make an appropriate notation on the bill or demand and forthwith forward the
same to the Collector-Treasurer for payment, and, as soon thereafter as
conveniently may be, shall draw a draft upon the Collector-Treasurer for the
payment of such bill or demand. If the Auditor finds that any of such facts
does not exist, he or she shall return the bill or demand with his or her
objections to the person submitting the same.
(Ord. 1949 c. 9 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 4; CBC 1985 6-
1.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.27; Ord. ss 6-3.5, ss 6-3.8; Ord. ss 6-3.1; Ord, ss 11-6.37
6-1.5   Check or Order for Payment.
   The Auditor shall, when requested in writing by any Officer in charge of a
Department, if he or she deems it proper so to do, audit accounts and issue
drafts for the payment thereof whenever necessary.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 5; CBC 1985 6-1.5)
6-1.6   Departmental Charges.
   The Auditor, at the close of each month, shall charge as an expenditure of a
Department the transaction, act or neglect of which caused a claim or suit, the
amount paid in settlement, or on execution, therefor, unless provision is made
for such payment out of some other appropriation; shall charge the amount of
every bill allowed by him or her for printing or binding furnished any
Department by the Purchasing Agent during such month, except city documents, to
the appropriation for the Department to which the same was furnished, and shall
credit such amount to the general revenue of the city; and shall charge to the
appropriation for each Division of the Public Works Department, or to the
appropriation for any special work, the amount of all bills for materials,
tools or machinery furnished for such Division, or for such work, by other
divisions of said Department, and shall credit such amount to the general
revenue of the city, unless such materials, tools or machinery have been
furnished by the water service, in which case the amount charged shall be
credited to the water income.
(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 11; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 6; CBC 1985
6-1.6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.26, ss 5-5.33; Ord. ss 11-6.29
6-1.7   Monthly Report to Mayor and City Council.
   The Auditor shall, immediately after the first day of every month, make to
the Mayor and, prior to its fourth regular meeting of every month, to the City
Council, a report showing the amounts of the several appropriations, the
amounts of all drafts on account of each appropriation made during the month
preceding, the amounts of such drafts made since the beginning of the financial
year and the balance of such appropriation remaining subject to draft.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 7; Ord. 1972 c. 11 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 7; CBC 1985
6-1.7)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.3; Ord. ss 5-5.31
6-1.8   Annual Report.
   The Auditor shall include in his or her annual report a statement of all the
receipts and expenditures of the city for the past financial year, giving in
detail the amount of each regular and special appropriation and the
expenditures therefrom; the receipts from each source of income; the reduction,
if any, of the city debt; and the change, if any, in the sinking funds, which
statement shall be, arranged so far as practicable to conform to the accounts
of the Collector-Treasurer.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 19; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 8; CBC 1985
6-1.8)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.33; Ord. ss 6-3.5
6-1.9   Deputy City Auditor.
   The City Auditor may appoint, subject to the approval of the Mayor, a Deputy
City Auditor, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his or her duties
and shall hold Office until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
The Deputy City Auditor shall perform such duties as may be assigned to him or
her, from time to time, by the City Auditor. If, by reason of illness, absence
or other cause, the City Auditor be temporarily unable to perform the duties of
his or her Office, the Deputy City Auditor shall perform the same until such
disability ceases.
(Ord. 1934 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 9; CBC 1985 6-1.9)
6-1.10   Restriction on Transfer of Appropriated Money.
   After an appropriation of money has been duly made by the city for any
specific purpose, or for the needs and expenditures of any City Department or
County Office, the City Auditor shall make transfers of the monies thus
appropriated only in accordance with law, and shall make no transfer requiring
approval by a yea and nay vote of two-thirds of all of the members of the
Boston City Council under Section 1 of Chapter 604 of the Acts of 1941, as now
or hereafter amended, unless the City Clerk shall certify that such approval
has been given and the date thereof.
(Ord. 1972 c. 11 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 10; CBC 1985 6-1.10)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1941 c. 604 § 1
6-1.11   Expenditure of Funds in Excess of Those Appropriated.
   In the event of an expenditure by any City Official of funds in excess of
those appropriated by the City Council, such expenditure being in violation of
CBC, St. 4, Sec. 4, the Boston City Council may, with the assistance of the
Corporation Counsel or special counsel, on behalf of the city, seek a complaint
or otherwise proceed against such Official for such violation in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1980 c. 3; CBC 1985 6-1.11)
6-1.12   Establishing Standard Provisions for Annual Appropriation Orders.
   Unless otherwise provided by law or such order, every annual appropriation
order of the Boston City Council shall be deemed to contain the following
standard provisions.
   (A)   No more than one-quarter of the funds appropriated for any fiscal year
for permanent personnel shall be expended for such purpose in any 90-day period
except with the express approval of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   No Official or employee of the city shall receive overtime pay in
excess of 10% of his or her annual salary in any 12-month period unless such
excess payment is expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   All salaries for non-civil service positions in excess of $15,000
annually and all changes in such salaries shall be subject to approval of the
City Council.
   (D)   Unless expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council, no Department
or Agency of the city shall employ in any position within such Department or
Agency any number of persons in excess of the number approved by the City
Council.
   (E)   Unless expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council, no Department
or Agency of the city shall expend funds in excess of $2,000 for contractual
services for any purpose unless such funds and purposes were included on Form 6
of a program budget submitted to the Council in connection with an annual
appropriation order prior to the expenditure of such funds.
   (F)   Unless expressly authorized by the Mayor and City Council, no person
paid from funds appropriated by this order shall be paid by any Agency other
than the Agency for which such person actually works.
   (G)   Passage of this order does not, either directly or implicitly,
authorize or purport to authorize, any Department or Agency Head or any other
appointing authority to disregard the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 31 or the
provisions of any other special or general law.
   (H)   Funds appropriated by this order shall not be used to advertise the
name of any city official whether elected or appointed.
   (I)   Unless otherwise provided by law, or written contract predating such
expense, after a payroll expense has been incurred by payment from any city
payroll account such expense shall not be charged to any other account without
approval of the Mayor and City Council.
   (J)   The City Auditor shall not knowingly approve any expenditure of funds
in violation of this order and the Auditor is lawfully convicted of such
violation the Auditor shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 for each
such offense.
(Ord. 1980 c. 8 § 1; CBC 1985 6-1.12)
6-2   ASSESSING DEPARTMENT.
6-2.1   Board, Appointment, Term, Divisions of Department.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Assessing
Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board consisting of an
Officer, known as the Commissioner of Assessing, appointed by the Mayor for a
term expiring on the first Monday of January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and of two other Officers,
known as Associate Commissioners of Assessing, each appointed by the Mayor for
a like term. The Mayor shall, from time to time, by a writing filed with the
City Clerk designate one of the Associate Commissioners of Assessing as the
Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises and the other as
the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes.
   (B)   Said Board shall divide the Assessing Department, from time to time,
into a Real Estate Appraisal Division, a Statistical Research Division, and
such other Divisions as said Board shall adjudge necessary for the proper
conduct of the Department.
(Ord. 1958 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 § 1;
CBC 1975 Ord. To § 100; CBC 1985 6-2.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 17-14.1
Editor’s note:
   By St. 1963 C. 160 the poll tax was abolished.
6-2.2   Powers and Duties of Commissioner of Assessing.
   The Commissioner of Assessing shall, for the Assessing Department including
the Board of Review, exclusively have the power, and perform the duties,
conferred or imposed by law on the Assessor in existence immediately prior to
the taking effect of this Section with respect to the acquisition and disposal
of property, the making of contracts and the appointment, suspension,
discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates. The Commissioner
of Assessing shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or
imposed by law on the Assessor and the Board of Review in the Assessing
Department in existence immediately prior to the taking effect of this Section
with respect to taxes other than Poll and Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes, and shall
further have the powers and perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or
imposed on Assessors of cities in the commonwealth by General Laws applicable
to Boston with respect to taxes other than Poll and Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 1 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. To §
101; CBC 1985 6-2.2)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 59
6-2.3   Powers and Duties of Associate Commissioners of Assessing.
   The Associate Commissioners of Assessing shall have the powers and perform
the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Assessor in existence immediately
prior to the taking effect of this Section with respect, in the case of the
Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises, to Motor Vehicle
Excise Taxes and in the case of the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for
Poll Taxes, to Poll Taxes, and shall also have the powers and perform the
duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed on Assessors of cities in the
commonwealth by General Laws applicable to Boston with respect, in the case of
the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises, to Motor
Vehicle Excise Taxes, and in the case of the Associate Commissioner of
Assessing for Poll Taxes, to Poll Taxes. In addition, each Associate
Commissioner of Assessing may, at such time as he or she shall have been so
authorized by written designation signed by the Commissioner of Assessing,
approved by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk and such authorization
shall not have been revoked in like manner, exercise the powers and perform the
duties of Commissioner of Assessing in relation to such matters as may be
specified in such designation. In the event of the absence, disability or
vacancy in Office of an Associate Commissioner of Assessing, the powers and
duties conferred or imposed upon him or her by or under this Section shall be
exercised and performed by the other Associate Commissioner of Assessing.
(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 §
102; CBC 1985 6-2.3)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 59; M.G.L. Chapter 60A, Section 2
Editor’s note:
   By St. 1963 C. 160, the poll tax was abolished.
6-2.4   Board of Review.
   (A)   There shall be in the Assessing Department a Board, known as the Board
of Review, consisting of:
      (1)   Such person in the service of the Real Estate Appraisal Division of
the Assessing Department as the Mayor, by a writing filed with the City Clerk
after the commencement of a municipal year, shall designate to serve ex officio
on said Board at his or her pleasure during such year, who, while so serving,
shall be Chair of said Board;
      (2)   Such person in the service of the Statistical Research Division of
the Assessing Department as the Mayor in like manner shall designate to serve
ex officio on said Board at his or her pleasure during such year; and
      (3)   Such person as the Mayor shall appoint from the public at large to
serve on said Board for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January
following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Review to review every
application for the abatement of a Real Estate or Personal Property Tax and
report to the Commissioner of Assessing its findings and recommendations with
respect thereto, including such suggestion for settlement, if any, as, after
discussion with the applicant, the Board may think proper.
(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 §§ 2, 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6
§ 103; CBC 1985 6-2.4)
6-2.5   Application for Abatement.
   Every application for abatement filed with the Assessing Department shall be
deemed to be filed with, and shall be forthwith transmitted to, in the case of
an application for the abatement of a Real Estate or Personal Property Tax, the
Commissioner of Assessing, in the case of an application for the abatement of a
Motor Vehicle Excise Tax, the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor
Vehicle Excises, and in the case of an application for the abatement of a Poll
Tax, the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes.
(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 §§ 3, 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6
§ 104; CBC 1985 6-2.5)
Editor’s note:
   By St. 1963 C. 160, the poll tax was abolished.
6-3   TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
6-3.1   Collector-Treasurer.
   (A)   Appointment, term, powers and duties. There shall be in the city a
Department, known as the Treasury Department, which shall be under the charge
of an Officer, known as the Collector-Treasurer, appointed by the Mayor for a
term expiring on the first Monday on the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, who shall have the powers and
perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed on him or her by
law, shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by
law on the City Collector and the City Treasurer immediately prior to the
taking effect of Chapter 2 of the Ordinances of 1954 (including the powers and
duties conferred or imposed by Section 7 of Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943),
and shall further have the powers and perform the duties, from time to time,
conferred or imposed on Collectors of Taxes and Treasurers of Cities in the
commonwealth by General Laws applicable to Boston.
   (B)   Survey of properties. The Collector- Treasurer shall annually conduct
a complete survey of all properties located in the city which carry a tax
delinquent designation and determine the reasons or circumstances for such
delinquency and further determine and cause to be executed those remedies the
city may provide.
(St. 1821 c. 110 § 18; St. 1854 c. 448 § 42; St. 1875 c. 176 § 1; St. 1909 c.
490 Part II; St. 1912 c. 272; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 64; Ord. 1954 c. 6 § 2; Rev.
Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 150; Ord. 1983 c. 10; CBC 1985 6-3.1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1943 c. 434 § 7
6-3.2   Divisions of Department; Appointment of Assistant Collector-Treasurers.
   There shall be in the Treasury Department a Treasury Division and a
Collecting Division; and the Collector-Treasurer shall, with the written
approval of the Mayor in each instance, appoint for each Division a First
Assistant Collector-Treasurer and a Second Assistant Collector-Treasurer, each
of whom shall be sworn to the faithful performance of his or her duties. The
First Assistant Collector-Treasurer for each Division, and in the event of his
or her absence or disability or of vacancy in his or her Office the Second
Assistant Collector-Treasurer for such Division, shall have charge under the
Collector-Treasurer of such Division. Each of said Assistant Collector-
Treasurers shall perform under the direction of the Collector-Treasurer such
other duties as shall, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the
Collector-Treasurer, and may, at such times as he or she shall have been so
authorized by written designation signed by the Collector-Treasurer, approved
by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk and such authorization shall not
have been revoked in like manner, exercise the powers and perform the duties of
Collector-Treasurer in relation to such matters as may be specified in such
designation; provided that a Second Assistant Collector-Treasurer may be
authorized to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the
Collector-Treasurer only when there is absence or disability or vacancy in
Office in the case of the Collector-Treasurer, the First Assistant Collector-
Treasurer for the Treasury Division and the First Assistant Collector-Treasurer
for the Collecting Division.
(Ord. 1954 c. 6 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 151; CBC 1985
6-3.2)
6-3.3   Appointment of Deputy-Collectors.
   The Collector-Treasurer may appoint such Deputy Collectors (including a
Chief Deputy Collector) as the service may be found to require, who shall have
like power as the Collector-Treasurer to receive any tax, assessment, account,
debt or claim payable to the city or county and to serve any bill, demand,
notice or other paper of the Collector-Treasurer and make affidavit of the
manner of such service, and, in addition thereto, shall have power to give
notice of, serve and execute any warrant committed to him or her by the
Collector-Treasurer under M.G.L. Chapter 60, Section 34, and in the service and
execution thereof shall have all the powers and duties of a Collector of Taxes.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 152; CBC 1985 6-3.3)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 60, Section 34
6-3.4   Bonds of Subordinates.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall require from each of his or her subordinates,
before each enters upon the duties of his or her Office or position and
annually thereafter and at such other times as the Collector- Treasurer shall
determine, for the faithful discharge of his or her duties and trusts and the
safe custody and lawful disposition of all money and other property belonging
to the city or county which may come into his or her possession, a bond running
to the Collector-Treasurer with a surety company authorized to transact
business in the commonwealth as surety in the penal sum, in the case of an
Assistant Collector-Treasurer, of $200,000, and in the case of every other
permanent employee, of not less than $5,000 nor more than $50,000 as the
Collector-Treasurer shall in each case prescribe.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 153; CBC 1985 6-3.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.6
6-3.5   Collection of Accounts by Collector-Treasurer.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall collect and receive all taxes and assessments
payable to the city or county, whether committed to him or her or outstanding
at the time of his or her appointment. He or she shall also collect and receive
all accounts, debts and claims payable to the city or county, and in the
collection thereof shall have all the remedies provided by M.G.L. Chapter 60,
Sections 35, 36 and 93. He or she shall further collect and receive, except
where other provision is made, all other money to be paid to, or for the use
of, the city or the county. He or she shall have custody of all leases from the
city. He or she shall, whenever a water rate is paid, immediately notify the
Commissioner of Public Works of such payment.
(Ord. 1941 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 154; CBC 1985 6-
3.5)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 11-6.6; Statutes, Title 11 §§ 150, 172, 177
6-3.6   Custody and Deposit of Funds; Signing Bonds; Treasurer of Sinking Fund
Commissioners.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall receive, receipt for and have the care, and
custody of, the current funds of the city from the time the same shall come
into his or her possession, and also of all money, property and securities
which may come into his or her possession by virtue of any statute or
ordinance, or as a gift, devise, bequest or deposit; may deposit any portion of
such current funds in such savings banks or trust companies organized under the
laws of the commonwealth and doing business in the city or such national banks
doing business in the city or such national bank or trust company in the City
of New York, and on such conditions and rates of interest, as he or she shall
deem best, subject to the approval of the Mayor; provided, however, that no
such deposit shall be made except in conformity with law; shall, with the Mayor
and the City Auditor, sign all bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by
the city; shall preserve all bids for loans, and papers relating thereto; and
shall, if elected, serve as Treasurer of the Board of Commissioners of Sinking
Funds. If the Collector-Treasurer is elected Treasurer of said Board, his or
her bond as Collector-Treasurer shall apply to and include his or her duties as
Treasurer of said Board. The Collector-Treasurer shall not be eligible for
appointment to said Board.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 s. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 155; Ord. 1990 c. 3; CBC 1985 6-
3.6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.1; Ord. ss 6-1.2
6-3.7   Prohibiting Certain Local Investments.
   (A)   No public funds under the care and custody of the Collector-Treasurer
of the city, as specified in Subsection 6-3.11, shall be invested or remain
invested in the stocks, securities or other obligations of any company which
derives more than 15% of its revenue from the sale of tobacco products.
   (B)   (1)   No public funds under the care and custody of the Collector-
Treasurer of the city, as specified in Subsection 6-3.11, shall be invested or
remain invested in the stocks, securities or other obligations of any company
which derives more than 15% of its revenue from the combustion, distribution,
extraction, manufacture or sale of fossil fuels, which shall include coal, oil
and gas or fossil fuel products. The Collector-Treasurer of the city shall
divest public funds under their care from investments related to fossil fuels
no later than December 31, 2025.
      (2)   An electric distribution company with corporate affiliates that
combust, distribute, extract, manufacture or sell fossil fuels may be
considered a fossil fuel investment for definition purposes.
   (C)   No public funds under the care and custody of the Collector-Treasurer
of the city, as specified in Subsection 6-3.11, shall be invested or remain
invested in the stocks, securities or other obligations of any company which
derives more than 15% of its revenue from the operation, maintenance, servicing
or supply of carceral facilities.
   (D)   Any proceeds of the sales required under this Subsection shall be
invested as much as reasonably possible in institutions or companies which
invest or conduct business or operations in the city or the commonwealth so
long as such use is consistent with sound investment policy.
(CBC 1985 6-3.7; Ord. 1997 c. 3; Ord. 2021 c. 15 § 1)
Editor’s note:
   Former Subsection 6-3.7, Divesting Municipal/Public Monies Dealing with
South Africa, previously codified herein and containing portions of Ordinance
Nos. 1984 c. 19 and 1991 c. 6 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance No.
1994 c. 4.
6-3.7.2   Report on Local Investment.
   Upon compliance of Subsection 6-3.7, the Collector-Treasurer shall submit a
report within 120 days to the Boston City Council regarding the status of
investments affected by Subsection 6-3.7.
(CBC 1985 6-3.7.2 Ord. 2021 c. 15 § 2)
6-3.8   Payments of Money by Collector-Treasurer.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall pay over to the Board of Commissioners of
Sinking Funds all money received by him or her from assessments laid or to be
laid on account of betterments from public improvements the expenses of which
were paid for by the proceeds of loans, and all sums received from the sale or
lease of city property purchased out of the proceeds of loans, except where
provision to the contrary is made by statute or ordinance, to be by them
credited to the Sinking Funds established for such loans, or in case of serial
loans to be held by them toward paying the installments as they fall due. The
Collector-Treasurer shall also pay all drafts, checks and other orders directed
to him or her by the City Auditor, in accordance with these Sections, for the
payment of bills and demands against the city; shall on presentation pay every
execution against the city, when approved by the Corporation Counsel, even if
the appropriation to which the execution is chargeable is not sufficient to
meet it; shall pay on presentation when due all bonds issued by the city and
the interest on the same; shall cancel all bonds and coupons and daily deliver
to the City Auditor the bonds and executions paid during the day; shall at the
close of business on the last day of each month deliver to the City Auditor the
coupons paid during such month and statement of the total amount paid for
interest during such month and shall use and apply as the Boston City Council
may direct all property, money and securities in his or her care and custody at
the close of each financial year for the application of which no other
provision has been made.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 156; CBC 1985 6-3.8)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.3; Ord. ss 8-7.1
6-3.9   Monthly Reports.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall, on or before the tenth of each month, render
to the Mayor a statement of the receipts and payments of the Treasury
Department for the preceding month and a summary of the like items for the
current financial year up to the close of the preceding month.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 s. 25 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 157; CBC 1985 6-3.9)
6-3.10   Payments to Employees and Others.
   The Collector-Treasurer may make payments to school teachers, school
building custodians, Police Officers, witnesses, jurors and persons employed in
and about the various Departments and institutions of the city and of the
county, in such of the public buildings in the different Sections of the city,
or upon such public works, as he or she may designate, and as will best
facilitate such payments and prevent the loss of time by the persons receiving
them.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 158; CBC 1985 6-3.10)
6-3.11   Disposition of Gifts, Bequests, Investment Thereof.
   (A)   The Collector-Treasurer, unless the donors have otherwise directed,
shall receive all properties given, devised or bequeathed to, or deposited
with, the city for any specific purpose, and shall use the same, or the income
thereof, as designated in the gift, devise, bequest or deposit. If the income
only is to be used, he or she shall hold the properties as permanent funds. He
or she shall invest and keep invested the said permanent funds in conformity
with M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 54 notwithstanding the last sentence thereof.
For the purpose of investment and reinvestment he or she shall have power, from
time to time, in his or her discretion to sell or exchange any of the
securities of which any of the said permanent funds consist; but all purchases,
exchanges and sales shall be with the written approval of the Mayor.
   (B)   To facilitate the investment management of trust funds for which the
Collector-Treasurer is custodian, the Collector-Treasurer may cause any
security which is an asset of a trust fund for which the Collector-Treasurer is
custodian, unless otherwise provided by the specific terms of an individual
trust instrument, to be registered and held in the name of a partnership or a
corporate nominee named by him or her. The Collector-Treasurer may do or cause
to be done all acts necessary to the creation of such nominee registrations.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 10; Ord. 1972 c. 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 159; Ord. 1976
c. 16; CBC 1985 6-3.11)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 44, Sections 53A, 54; St. 3 § 1
6-3.12   Police Charitable Fund.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall use the income of the Police Charitable Fund
for the relief of persons in necessitous circumstances who shall be found by
the Police Commissioner to have been honorably discharged from the Police Force
by reason of sickness, age or other disability, or to be the widows or orphans
of Police Officers who have died while in the service of the city; and may
monthly pay to such persons the amount of such income determined and allowed by
the Police Commissioner, with the approval of the Mayor, on a monthly payroll
sent to the City Auditor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 160; CBC 1985 6-3.12)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.3
6-3.13   Residential Tax Title Payment Agreements.
6-3.13(a)   Authority.
   The provisions contained in this Section are adopted pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 60, Section 62A, which allows municipalities by ordinance to authorize
payment agreements between the Treasurer and persons entitled to redeem parcels
in tax title.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(a); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(b)   Purpose.
   The provisions contained in Subsections 6-3.13(a) through 6-3.13(g) are to
foster the collection of unpaid taxes and promote residential stability. The
city determines that such a program will reduce uncertainty for elderly, low-
income taxpayers vulnerable to tax foreclosure and will help those taxpayers
defined herein as eligible meet their tax obligations while avoiding the legal
expense and time delay of taking the property in a Land Court proceeding.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(b); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(c)   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Subsection, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELIGIBLE TAXPAYER. An equity owner of record, or a resident who is a
beneficiary of a trust that owns, a property of fewer than four units, and who
is:
      (1)   Eligible, as of January 1, 2019 or subsequently as of the date of
the recording of the relevant instrument of taking, for a residential tax
exemption under M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5C; and
      (2)   Also eligible for an elderly exemption under M.G.L. Chapter 59,
Section 5, Clause 41C.
   INITIAL PAYMENT. Twenty five percent of the total amount necessary to redeem
the parcel at the inception of the agreement, before any interest waiver is
applied.
   INTEREST WAIVER. Up to 50% of the interest that has accrued on the amount of
the tax title as of the date of the inception of the payment agreement.
   PAYMENT AGREEMENT or AGREEMENT. An agreement signed by the Collector-
Treasurer and the eligible taxpayer and which includes the amount due upon
execution (initial payment), a schedule of remaining payments and the
consequences for failure to adhere to the agreement. Such AGREEMENT shall be
for a maximum term of no more than five years.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(c); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(d)   Residential Tax Title Payment Agreement.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 60, Section 62A, upon the
request and proof of qualification of an eligible taxpayer, the Collector-
Treasurer may enter into a written payment agreement with an eligible taxpayer
to redeem ownership of parcels of real estate which have been taken by the city
under M.G.L. Chapter 60, Sections 53 and 54 as a result of non-payment of real
estate taxes.
   (B)   The payment agreement shall be executed by the Collector-Treasurer and
eligible taxpayer and shall set forth the terms and conditions for payment of
the delinquent taxes, interest and any other costs, fees or charges associated
with same. At execution of said agreement, the eligible taxpayer must pay the
minimum payment required by M.G.L. Chapter 60, Section 62A, or other guiding
statute or regulation, of the total amount due to redeem the parcel (initial
payment); provided that such a minimum payment may be completed in a single
transaction or in multiple transactions at the discretion of the Collector-
Treasurer. The eligible taxpayer must agree to pay the remaining balance due to
the city in 20 equal installments over a period not to exceed five years, with
four installment payments due each year.
   (C)   After the city has received the initial payment pursuant to the
payment agreement, the eligible taxpayer shall be entitled to a credit equal to
50% of the accrued interest on the then remaining tax title interest amount due
(interest waiver). This interest waiver shall be applied as a credit against
the final installment(s) due under the payment agreement.
   (D)   No taxes or collection costs may be waived, including any Land Court
charges paid to date. Interest will continue to accrue during the term of the
payment agreement and will remain payable at the end of the payment agreement.
   (E)   During the term of any payment agreement, the Collector-Treasurer may
not bring any further action to foreclose the tax title account, or proceed
with a pending action to foreclose in Land Court, unless the taxpayer fails to
comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement and no further agreement
can be reached.
   (F)   During the term of the payment agreement, the taxpayer must make
timely payments in accordance with a written payment schedule and must remain
current on all other tax payments, fees and licenses issued by the city.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(d); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(e)   Obligation to Pay Current Taxes; Default.
   The eligible taxpayer must pay all current taxes owed when due. Any failure
to stay current on taxes, payments, fees and licenses issued by or otherwise
owed to the city when due shall be a violation of the payment agreement and
shall cause the payment agreement to be terminated immediately.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(e); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(f)   Public Awareness Efforts.
   Not later than April 1, 2019, the city shall develop multi-lingual materials
and outreach programs regarding the availability of tax title payment
agreements. In promoting tax title payment agreements, opportunities for tax
deferral, eligibility for tax exemptions and in communicating outstanding tax
obligations, the Collector-Treasurer shall ensure compliance with language
access requirements specified in Section 6-10.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(f); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-3.13(g)   Report on Residential Tax Title Payment Agreements.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall report to the Boston City Council no later
than July 1, 2020 and July 1, 2021 on the outcome of the residential tax title
payment programs, including number of enrolled taxpayers, program default rate,
delinquent tax collected, recommendations for expansion or alteration of the
program and other issues as determined by the Collector-Treasurer. In reviewing
potential program expansion or modification, the Collector-Treasurer shall
specifically examine the feasibility and utility of offering tax title payment
agreements to persons with disabilities, active duty military members and
taxpayers experiencing or who have experienced temporary unemployment, among
other classes identified by the Collector-Treasurer.
(CBC 1985 6-3.13(g); Ord. 2018 c. 10 § 1)
6-4   APPROPRIATIONS AND LOANS.
6-4.1   Submission of Annual Budget.
   In the event that he or she has not done so prior to such time, the Mayor,
not later than May 1 of each year, shall submit to the Boston City Council the
annual budget of the current expenses of the city and county for the
forthcoming fiscal year in its entirety as provided for by Chapter 486 of the
Acts of 1909.
(Ord. 1979 c. 43; CBC 1985 6-4.1)
6-5   FINANCE COMMISSION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T6; CBC 1985 6-5)
6-6   OFFICE OF THE PARKING CLERK.
6-6.1   Parking Clerk; Appointment and Duties.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Division of the Traffic and Parking
Department known as the Office of the Parking Clerk, under the control and
direction of an official known as the Parking Clerk, appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Boston City Council under the provisions of the
charter and pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½.
   (B)   The Parking Clerk shall supervise and coordinate the processing of
parking notices in the city. The Parking Clerk shall have the authority to hire
or designate such personnel as may be necessary or contract by competitive bid
including, but not limited to, advertising in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for at least two consecutive weeks, the use of
detailed, written publicly available selection criteria by the Parking Clerk,
in conformance with any and all special and general laws dealing with open
competitive bidding for such services, subject to appropriation, to implement
the provisions of this Section and M.G.L. Chapter 90, Sections 10A½, 20C and
20E.
   (C)   Positions in the Office of the Parking Clerk shall be filled until
June 30, 1983, by granting preference to persons who had been employees of the
Police, Fire or Traffic and Parking Departments of the city after July 1, 1981,
and all positions shall be subject to M.G.L. Chapter 31.
   (D)   The amount expended for personnel of the Office of the Parking Clerk
shall not exceed 5% of the total receipts collected during the previous fiscal
year.
(CBC 1985 6-6.1; Ord. 1982 c. 14)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-6.2   Issuance of Parking Violation Notices.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every Police Officer, and every person
assigned such responsibility, who takes cognizance of a violation of any
provision of any rule, regulation, order, ordinance or by-law regulating the
parking of motor vehicles in the city forthwith to give the offender a notice
to appear before the Parking Clerk, during regular Office hours, not later than
21 days after the date of the violation.
   (B)   The notice to appear shall be in tag form, as prescribed by M.G.L.
Chapter 90, Section 20A½.
   (C)   The Parking Clerk shall distribute such violation notices to the
Police Commissioner and Traffic and Parking Commissioner and other authorized
enforcement officials upon request, and shall take a receipt therefor.
   (D)   Notice affixed to a motor vehicle as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 90,
Section 20A½ shall be deemed a sufficient notice and shall be deemed prima
facie evidence thereof and shall be admissible in any judicial or
administrative proceedings of the Office of the Parking Clerk as to the facts
contained therein.
   (E)   At or before the completion of each tour of duty, the Officer shall
give to his or her commanding Officer copies of each notice of violation issued
during such tour. The Commanding Officer shall retain and safely preserve one
copy of each violation notice and shall at a time no later than the beginning
of the next business day, deliver a copy of the notice to the Office of the
Parking Clerk. The Parking Clerk shall maintain a docket of all such notices to
appear.
(CBC 1985 6-6.2; Ord. 1982 c. 14)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-6.3   Schedule of Fines.
   (A)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition
against stopping or standing of motor vehicles shall be $90 for each such
violation. A penalty of $25 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21
days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (B)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking in excess of one vehicle width from the curb or edge of a roadway
(double parking) within “Zone A”, as defined by the Boston Transportation
Commission, shall be $55 for each such violation. A penalty of $15 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (C)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the curb or
edge of a roadway (double parking) within “Zone B”, as defined by the Boston
Transportation Commission, shall be $35 for each such violation. A penalty of
$10 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (D)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking within an intersection, or upon any street or roadway within 20 feet of
an intersecting way, except alleys, shall be forty $40 for each such violation.
A penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after
issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (E)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking within 10 feet of a fire hydrant shall be $100 for each violation. A
penalty of $33 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after
issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (F)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking within Residential Parking Districts, unless said vehicle displays in
the rear window a valid and current sticker as issued by the Transportation
Department for the district in which the vehicle is parked, shall be $60 for
each such violation. A penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains
unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (G)   The fine for parking a vehicle in any public hackney carriage stand
shall be $50 for each such violation. A penalty of $16 shall be assessed if the
fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (H)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking upon any roadway where the parking of the vehicle will not leave a
clear and unobstructed lane at least 10 feet wide for passing traffic (fire
lane) shall be $100 for each such violation. A penalty of $33 shall be assessed
if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (I)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking upon any sidewalk shall be $65 for each such violation. A penalty of
$21 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (J)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking upon any crosswalk shall be $85 for each such violation. A penalty of
$28 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (K)   The fine for parking a vehicle in front of any pedestrian sidewalk
ramp shall be $100 for each such violation. A penalty of $33 shall be assessed
if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (L)   The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing distinctive license plates
as issued by the Registry of Motor Vehicles to handicapped persons or disabled
veterans on any street or part thereof where signs are erected reserving the
space of HP or DV plate vehicles shall be $120 for each such fine. A penalty of
$40 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (M)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking in a loading zone shall be $90 for each such violation. A penalty of
$18 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (N)   Unless otherwise specified in this Subsection, the fine for parking a
vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking of motor vehicles
within “Zone A”, as defined by the Transportation Commission, shall be $90 for
each such violation. A penalty of $18 shall be assessed if the fine remains
unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (O)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition
against parking of motor vehicles during hours designated for street cleaning
shall be $40 for each such violation. A penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the
fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (P)   The fine for parking a vehicle in a metered space during the hours
when the parking meter zone is effective and failing to immediately deposit the
required fee in the amount indicated on said meter, and if so required, set the
mechanism in motion, shall be $40. A penalty of $8 shall be assessed if the
fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (Q)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against
parking during a snow or weather emergency as declared by the Commissioner of
Transportation shall be $45. A penalty of $15 shall be assessed if the fine
remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (R)   The fine for stopping, standing or parking any vehicle other than a
bus in an area designated as a bus stop shall be $55. A penalty of $18 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (S)   The fine for parking or standing any vehicle bearing commercial
vehicle number plates, or any semi-trailer, having a capacity of 1 ton or over,
for more than one hour between 9:00 p.m. of one day and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day, or any time on Sunday, on any part of any street, way, highway,
road or parkway under the control of the city, where parking or standing a
vehicle is not otherwise prohibited shall be $65. A penalty of $21 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (T)   The fine for parking a vehicle in excess of 12 inches from the edge of
a curb or roadway shall be $35. A penalty of $11 shall be assessed if the fine
remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (U)   The fine for stopping, standing or parking a vehicle in front of any
driveway shall be $25. A penalty of $8 shall be assessed if the fine remains
unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (V)   The fine for stopping, standing or parking a vehicle adjacent to or
upon any center division strip, street car reservation or island placed upon
and being a part of any public way, unless the vehicle is entirely within a
parking meter space or in a space otherwise provided, shall be $40. A penalty
of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (W)   The fine for failing to park a vehicle wholly within a parking meter
space shall be $25. At the drive-in stall of either a single or a dual parking
meter, the fine for failing to park a vehicle with the right front bumper
perpendicular to the meter post shall be $25. At the back-in stall of a dual
parking meter, the fine for failing to park a vehicle with the right rear
bumper perpendicular to the meter post shall be $25. A penalty of $8 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (X)   The fine for permitting a vehicle, except a commercial vehicle, as
defined by the Transportation Commission, to remain in a parking meter space
beyond the maximum period of time allowed in the particular zone shall be $40.
A penalty of $8 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after
issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (Y)   The fine for parking a vehicle at a parking meter space where the
meter device displays the statement “Not a Legal Space—Violation”, shall be
$20. A penalty of $6 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after
issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (Z)   The fine for parking a vehicle continuously for any period of time
exceeding the posted limit within “Zone A”, as defined by the Transportation
Commission, shall be $40. A penalty of $8 shall be assessed if the fine remains
unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (AA)   The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing a valid registration plate
(s) as required under M.G.L. Chapter 90, on any street, way, highway, road or
parkway under the control of the city shall be $40 for each such violation. A
penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after
issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (BB)   The fine for parking a vehicle bearing an expired registration as
required under M.G.L. Chapter 90, on any street, way, highway, road or parkway
under the control of the city shall be $40 for each such violation. A penalty
of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (CC)   The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing a valid certificate of
inspection as required under M.G.L. Chapter 90, on any street, way, highway,
road or parkway under the control of the city shall be $40 for each such
violation. A penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21
days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (DD)   The fine for parking a vehicle bearing an expired certificate of
inspection as required under M.G.L. Chapter 90, on any street, way, highway,
road or parkway under the control of the city shall be $40 for each such
violation. A penalty of $13 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21
days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (EE)   The fine for parking a vehicle on any street, way, highway, road or
parkway under the control of the city for the purpose of performing non-
emergency repairs on said vehicle shall be $40 for each such violation. NON-
EMERGENCY REPAIRS shall mean the changing of any vehicle fluid and any other
repair with the exception of minor safety related repairs that can be fully
completed within 90 minutes, such as changing a flat tire, replacing a
headlight or bulb or replacing a wiper blade. A penalty of $13 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (FF)   The fine for parking any motor vehicle having a gross vehicle weight
in excess of 12,000 pounds between the hours of 9:00 p.m. of one day and 8:00
a.m. of the following day or anytime on Sunday, on any part of any street, way,
highway, road or parkway under the control of the city that is residential
shall be $100. A penalty of $33 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21
days after the issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (GG)   The fine for parking a vehicle upon any street, highway, road or
parkway under the control of the city where such vehicle possesses an
unauthorized and/or revoked city Resident Parking Permit shall be $100 for each
such violation. A penalty of $33 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid
21 days after the issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (HH)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition
against parking of motor vehicles within “Zone B”, as defined by the
Transportation Commissioner, shall be $55 for each such violation. A penalty of
$8 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
   (II)   The fine for parking a vehicle continuously for any period of time
exceeding the posted limit within “Zone B”, as defined by the Transportation
Commissioner, shall be $40 for each such violation. A penalty of $8 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (JJ)   Notwithstanding division (F) above, the fine for parking a vehicle in
the Fenway/Kenmore Residential Parking District during Fenway Park Events,
unless said vehicle displays in the rear window a valid and current sticker as
issued by the Transportation Department for the Fenway/Kenmore Residential
Parking District, shall be $100 for each violation. A penalty of $33 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (KK)   FENWAY PARK EVENTS means any Major League Baseball game played at
Fenway Park, including two hours before the scheduled game time and two hours
after the conclusion of the game. Exclusively for the purposes of division (JJ)
above, the Transportation Commissioner may designate additional uses of Fenway
Park as FENWAY PARK EVENTS including, but not limited to, athletic events,
concerts and other special events.
   (LL)   (1)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted
prohibition against parking of motor vehicles during hours designated for
street cleaning within one or more neighborhoods or zones, as defined by the
Transportation Commissioner, shall be $90 for each such violation. A penalty of
$30 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a
notice of such violation.
      (2)   A request to implement the fine in a neighborhood or zone shall be
initiated by a petition to the Commissioner of Public Works, who shall notify
the City Council, the Transportation Commissioner and the Office of
Neighborhood Services of the request. The Boston City Council may schedule a
hearing on the request. The Transportation Commissioner shall act on the
request no earlier than 30 days after receipt of such notification or, in the
event of a hearing, no earlier than 30 days after the hearing. If granting the
request, the Transportation Commissioner shall implement the fine as soon as
feasible after said 30-day period.
   (MM)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition
against parking of motor vehicles during hours designated for street cleaning
within one or more “Pilot Zone(s)” as defined by the Transportation
Commissioner, shall be $90 for each such violation. A penalty of $30 shall be
assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21 days after issuance of a notice of such
violation.
   (NN)   The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition
against parking of motor vehicles during hours designated for street cleaning
that are between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall be $90.
(Ord. 1983 c. 20 § 2; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 79; CBC 1985 6-6.3; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch.
10 §§ 2, 3; Ord. 1993 c. 1; Ord. 1993 c. 6; Ord. 1998 c. 6 §§ 1, 3; Ord. 2002
c. 2; Ord. 2002 c. 4; Ord. 2002 c. 5; Ord. 2003 c. 12; Ord. 2003 c. 13; Ord.
2003 c. 14; Ord. 2003 c. 15; Ord. 2005 c. 6; Ord. 2005 c. 9; Ord. 2007 c. 8;
Ord. 2008 c. 5; Ord. 2010 c. 4; Ord. 2015 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2015 c. 4 § 1; Ord.
2015 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2016 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2018 c. 4 §§ 1 through 8)
6-6.4   Payment of Fines.
   (A)   Any person receiving a violation notice may appear before the Parking
Clerk, or his or her designee, and confess the offense charged, either
personally, through an Agent duly authorized in writing, or by mailing to the
Parking Clerk the notice accompanied by the fine provided therein. Payment by
mail shall be made only by postal note, money order or check made out to the
Parking Clerk. Payment in person may be made by cash, postal order, money order
or check made out to the Parking Clerk and in the case of payment made in cash
the Parking Clerk shall issue a receipt therefor. Payment of a fine shall
operate as a final disposition of the case.
   (B)   The Transportation Commission shall, from time to time, establish by
rule or regulation a schedule of fines for violations of any provision of any
rule, regulation, order, ordinance or by-law regulating parking in the city.
All such fines shall be uniform for the same offense committed in the same
zone. Increase in such fines from the $15 limit set by M.G.L. Chapter 90,
Section 20A½ shall be established by ordinance.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.4)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-6.5   Hearings and Appeals.
   (A)   If any person, fails to appear and pay the prescribed fine within 21
days, as required by M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½, or if such person having
appeared, within 21 days, as required by Section 20A½ of Chapter 90, desires
not to avail himself or herself of the benefits of the procedure established by
this Section, the Parking Clerk shall, as prescribed by Section 20A½ of Chapter
90, forthwith schedule the matter before a person hereafter referred to as a
Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be the Parking Clerk or other such
person as the Parking Clerk may designate.
   (B)   Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be
sent by first-class mail to the registered owner. The hearing, as prescribed by
M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½, shall be informal, the rules of evidence shall
not apply and the decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final, subject to
judicial review under M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall have authority to only adjudicate disputes
as to the validity of the parking violation notices issued for violations of
the rules and regulations of the Boston Traffic and Parking Commission.
   (D)   Proceedings for review of the decision of the Parking Clerk shall be
instituted in the Suffolk Superior Court within 30 days after receipt of notice
of the final decision of the Parking Clerk or if a petition for rehearing has
been timely filed with the Parking Clerk, within 30 days after receipt of
notice of the Parking Clerk’s denial of such petition for rehearing. The
commencement of an action shall not operate as a stay of enforcement of the
Parking Clerk’s decision, but the Parking Clerk may stay enforcement, and the
reviewing court may order a stay upon such terms as it considers proper as
prescribed by M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14. The city shall, by way of answer,
file in court the original or a certified copy of the record of the proceeding
under review.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.5)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-6.6   Impoundment of Vehicles.
   (A)   If any person shall have failed to appear in accordance with five or
more said notices, the Parking Clerk shall, as prescribed by M.G.L. Chapter 90,
Section 20A½, notify the Police Commissioner or Commissioner of Traffic and
Parking that the vehicle involved shall be removed and stored or otherwise
immobilized at the expense of the registered owner until such time as the
matter has been disposed of in accordance with law. A notice announcing such
action shall be mailed to the registered owner by the Parking Clerk.
   (B)   No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to an arrest for OUI may be
released prior to the passing of 12 hours following the arrest.
   (C)   (1)   No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to an arrest for or an
arrest related to manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering,
dispensing, distributing, importing or exporting of any controlled substance in
violation of any provision of M.G.L. Chapters 94B, 94C, 94D, 94E, 94F, 94G or
94I or otherwise involving possession of a controlled substance, purchase of a
controlled substance and/or distribution of a controlled substance may be
released until:
         (a)   Forty-eight hours have passed from the time of the related
arrest;
         (b)   A fine in the amount of $300 has been paid and evidence of
payment is presented; and
         (c)   Seizure proceedings, if commenced, have been closed.
      (2)   All monies collected pursuant to this Section shall be dedicated
and directed to drug treatment programs in the city and law enforcement
programs targeting drug trafficking in the city.
   (D)   (1)   No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to arrest for or an arrest
related to solicitation (M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 8), common nightwalker
(M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 53), prostitution (M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 53
via Chapter 277, Section 79), support from prostitution (M.G.L. Chapter 272,
Section 7), room/building for prostitution (M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 9),
enticing (M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 2), control of place for prostitution
(M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 6) and/or keeping a house of ill fame (M.G.L.
Chapter 272, Section 24), may be released until:
         (a)   Forty-eight hours have passed from the time of the related
arrest;
         (b)   A fine in the amount of $300 has been paid and evidence of
payment is presented;
         (c)   All fees related to the towing and storage of the impounded
vehicle have been paid and evidence of payment is presented; and
         (d)   Seizure proceedings, if commenced, have been closed.
      (2)   All fine monies collected pursuant to this Section shall be
dedicated to prostitute recovery programs in the city and law enforcement
programs targeting solicitation in the city.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.6; Ord. 2002 c. 10; Ord. 2004 c. 7; Ord. 2004 c.
8)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-6.7   Nonrenewal of License and Registration.
   (A)   If any person fails to appear in accordance with the notice of a
hearing, the Parking Clerk shall notify the Registrar of Motor Vehicles who
shall, as required by M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½, place the matter on
record and not renew the license to operate motor vehicles of the registered
owner of the vehicle or the registration of said vehicle until after notice
from the Parking Clerk that the matter has been disposed of in accordance with
law.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Parking Clerk to notify the registrar
forthwith that such case has been disposed of in accordance with law; provided,
however, that a certified receipt of full and final payment form the Parking
Clerk shall also serve as
legal notice, as prescribed by M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½, to the
registrar that said violations have been disposed of.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.7)
6-6.8   Licensed Taxi Cabs and Leased Vehicles.
   (A)   Anything contained herein notwithstanding, if the registered owner of
a motor vehicle involved in a parking violation subject to this Section is a
person or entity engaged in the licensed taxicab business or the business of
leasing motor vehicles, and such motor vehicle is under lease or being operated
for hire at the time of such violation the procedures of this Subsection shall
be applicable, and the registered owner shall be liable for any unpaid fines
only upon compliance by the Parking Clerk as defined above with the procedures
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The Parking Clerk shall give to the registered owner notice in writing
of each violation in which a motor vehicle owned by such owner is involved,
including the license number of the vehicle, state of issue and date and time
of the violation.
   (C)   Within 30 days, the registered owner shall furnish to such Parking
Clerk in writing the name and address of the lessee of such motor vehicle at
the time of such violation and if the lessee is also the operator, the license
number and state of issue of the license of such lessee.
   (D)   The Parking Clerk shall thereupon issue a notice of violation to such
lessee in the form prescribed by this Section.
   (E)   If such lessee does not appear in person or by writing as otherwise
provided in the ordinance or make payment within 21 days from the date on which
such notice is issued, the Parking Clerk shall notify the registrar as provided
by the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A and 20A½, and the Clerk of
the Division of the District Court Department or Boston Municipal Court
Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction. Upon notification by the
Parking Clerk, the Registrar shall suspend any license issued under this
chapter or suspend the right to operate of a person not licensed in this
commonwealth; and the Clerk of the District Court of the trial court having
jurisdiction shall forthwith issue a criminal complaint against the lessee and
thereafter proceed against such lessee following the procedures established for
criminal cases.
   (F)   After notification of the Registrar and the Clerk of the District
Court Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction of nonpayment by the
lessee within 21 days of the fine imposed by the city, the Parking Clerk shall
notify by first-class mail, the registered owner of such nonpayment. The
registered owner shall, within 30 days after receipt of such notice, pay the
fine for such violation. If thereafter, any payment is received by the Parking
Clerk from or on behalf of the lessee, the Parking Clerk shall forthwith
reimburse to the registered owner the amount paid by such registered owner. If
any payment is received by the court from or on the behalf of the lessee, the
Clerk of the Division of the District Court Department or the Boston Municipal
Court Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction shall forward said
payment to the Parking Clerk who shall forthwith reimburse to the registered
owner the amount paid by such registered owner, if not previously reimbursed.
The Registrar shall remove any suspension of license or right to operate upon
the payment in full to the Parking Clerk of the fine and penalty for such
violation by the lessee.
   (G)   The provisions of this Section shall be applicable to lessees of motor
vehicles as provided herein.
   (H)   Any registered owner and Parking Clerk may by agreement upon such
terms and conditions as they may deem appropriate provide for the transmission
of the information hereinbefore referred to in divisions (B) and (C) above, on
magnetic tape or in other computer readable format, in order to expedite
completion of the foregoing procedures.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.8)
6-6.9   Agreements With Other Governmental Agencies.
   (A)   The Parking Clerk shall have the authority to enter into such
agreements and contracts with other cities, towns and government Agencies
within the commonwealth as may be necessary or expedient to effectuate the
collection of fines and adjudication of parking violation notices.
   (B)   Such agreements and contracts shall be subject to the approval of the
Corporation Counsel and the Mayor.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.9)
6-6.10   Statutes Applicable.
   This Section shall be construed to conform to the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 90, Sections 20A½, 20C, 20D and 20E, as amended, and to M.G.L. Chapter
90C, Section 4A, as amended and other applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 1982 c. 14; CBC 1985 6-6.10)
6-7   DISABLED VETERANS/HANDICAPPED PARKING.
6-7.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to ensure Boston residents who are disabled
veterans or handicapped have access to public and private facilities and
services; to provide regulations for the designation, enforcement and penalty
for misuse of parking areas designated as reserved for disabled veterans or
handicapped persons; and to establish a temporary identification system for use
of parking areas designated as reserved for disabled veterans or handicapped
persons.
(Ord. 1983 c. 20; CBC 1985 6-7.1)
6-7.2   Scope.
   (A)   This Section shall apply to any person or body that has lawful control
of a public or private way or enclosed property used as off-street parking
areas for businesses, shopping malls, theaters, auditoriums, sporting or
recreational facilities, cultural centers, residential dwellings or for any
other place where the public has a right of access as invitees or licensees.
   (B)   Such persons or bodies shall designate parking areas as reserved for
motor vehicles owned and operated by a disabled veteran or a handicapped person
whose vehicle bears the HP/V distinguishing license plate authorized by M.G.L.
Chapter 90, Section 2 or the temporary identification authorized by the
provisions of this Section.
   (C)   Such persons or bodies shall assure that said spaces conform with the
size, width and location requirements as set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21, Clause 13(a).
   (D)   Such persons or bodies shall display signs which state that HP/
V parking regulations shall be enforced.
   (E)   Parking spaces designated as reserved under the provisions of this
Section shall be identified by the use of above-grade signs with white
lettering against a blue background and shall bear the words “HP/V PARKING
ONLY: Special Identification Required. Unauthorized vehicles May be Ticketed or
Removed at Owner’s Expense”. Complaints shall be referred to the Commission on
the Handicapped for enforcement.
   (F)   The Department of Traffic and Parking may deny or revoke licenses
granted pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 56 to licensees of open-air
parking spaces not in compliance with the provisions of this Section.
   (G)   The Department of Traffic and Parking shall be authorized to remove or
select an independent contractor to remove motor vehicles obstructing any curb
ramp designated for use by disabled veterans or handicapped persons or
obstructing any parking spaces reserved for a motor vehicle owned and operated
by a disabled veteran or handicapped persons whose vehicle bears the
distinguishing license plate authorized by M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 2 or who
is in possession of the temporary identification authorized by the provisions
of this Section.
   (H)   There shall be two forms of motor vehicle identification for the
purpose of this Section. The HP/V distinguishing license plate authorized by
M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 2 and the temporary identification authorized by the
provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 1983 c. 20; CBC 1985 6-7.2)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-7.3   Identification Card.
   The Commission on Handicapped in cooperation with the Department of Traffic
and Parking shall issue a temporary identification card certifying the right of
the holder to use parking spaces designated as reserved for disabled veterans
or handicapped persons in the following circumstances: disabled veterans or
handicapped persons who have applied for but not yet received the
distinguishing license plate authorized by M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 2;
disabled veterans or handicapped persons whose motor vehicle is out of service
and who are using a motor vehicle not bearing said distinguishing license
plate; disabled veterans or handicapped persons who have an out-of-state HP/
V license plate; and individuals who have acquired a temporary disability of a
severe nature and who can provide medical documentation of same. A separate
dashboard card shall be issued to those who transport persons who are blind or
mobility impaired which will allow 60-minute parking in HP/V designated areas.
Said cards shall be valid for a maximum of 90 days and shall be distinctive so
as to disallow fraud, and shall be numbered and tracked by a comprehensive
record keeping process. Any person who improperly uses a motor vehicle with a
HP/V distinguishing plate or temporary identification authorized by the
provisions of this Section shall be subject to a fine of $200. If a person
receives a parking violation while properly using HP/V distinguishing plate or
temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this Section, said
violation shall be dismissed if, prior to 21 days evidence demonstrating to use
handicapped parking rights at the time of receiving the ticket.
(Ord. 1983 c. 20; Ord. 1984 c. 8; CBC 1985 6-6.3)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
6-7.4   Revocation of Designated Parking Space.
   Whenever the Transportation Department shall have designated a particular
parking space as reserved for handicapped persons as a result of a request made
by a qualified resident applicant residing nearby and two years have elapsed
since designation, the person who filed the request shall be notified in
writing that unless an affidavit of continued need (in a form to be provided by
the Department) is filed within 60 days, the designation will be revoked. Where
no such affidavit is timely filed, the designation shall be deemed revoked and
marking signs removed forthwith.
(CBC 1985 6-7.4; Ord. 1996 c. 13)
6-8   MUNICIPAL DEPOSITORIES AND CONTRACTS FOR BANKING SERVICES.
6-8.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who applies for a mortgage loan, commercial loan, home
equity, consumer, home improvement or student loan as defined in this Section,
whether or not the loan is granted.
   BANKING SERVICES. Products and services provided by a financial institution
to the city including, but not limited to, checking and deposit accounts,
lockbox services, balance retrieval and online banking, electronic or direct
deposit, electronic stop payment systems, credit or debit or wire transfer
systems, ACH payments, credit or debit or purchase cards and direct banking
services.
   BOSTON SMSA. The Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area of the Greater
Boston Region as defined by the United States Bureau of Census.
   CENSUS TRACT. A standard statistical area as established by the United
States Bureau of Census.
   COLLECTOR-TREASURER. The Collector- Treasurer of the city.
   COMMERCIAL LOAN. A loan that is secured by commercial property.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN. A loan that is secured for the purposes of
constructing or rehabilitating commercial or residential property.
   COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT. Residential and mortgage lending services and also
meet the definition of “community development” as defined in the Federal
Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 regulations, being promulgated under 12
U.S.C. § 2901 and 12 C.F.R. pts. 25, 228 and 345.
   COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT SCORE. A financial institution’s award of points, on
a scale of zero to 100 total points, pursuant to Subsection 6-8.7 as determined
by the Municipal Banking and Community Reinvestment Commission.
   CONSUMER FINANCIAL PRODUCT. Any product sold by a financial institution to
facilitate personal consumption and include, but are not limited to, checking
accounts, credit and debit cards or other unsecured revolving accounts, online
bill pay services or balance transfer services.
   CONSUMER LOAN. A loan which is secured by an individual or families to
finance personal consumption.
   DISTRESSED PROPERTY STATUS. The type of property which would be listed on
the Real Estate Multiple Listing Service as a “distressed property sale”, due
to it being sale of a bank owned property or a short sale made subject to
approval by the mortgage lender.
   ELIGIBLE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial institution that scores in the
top 75% of the community reinvestment rankings, as described by Subsections 6-
8.9(C)(1) and 6-8.9(C)(2), and may contract with the city for banking services
and serve as a designated city depository.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any commercial bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, cooperative bank, mutual bank, trust company or
other entity which makes commercial, community development, consumer, home
improvement, residential, small business, student loans or which is the
subsidiary, parent, servicer, trustee or Agent of any of the types of entities
listed in this Subsection.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by a financial
institution or its subsidiaries or other affiliated or related entities.
   HOME IMPROVEMENT OR REHABILITATION LOAN. A loan, the proceeds of which are
to be used for the purpose of repairing, rehabilitating or remodeling an
existing residential dwelling.
   INELIGIBLE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial institution that scores within
the bottom 25% of the community reinvestment rankings, as described in
Subsection 6-8.9(C)(3) and may not contract with the city for banking services
or serve as a city depository.
   JUST CAUSE. As defined in M.G.L. Chapter 186A. It shall be applied to any
occupants of such property, whether those occupants are the former owners of
the property or tenants of the former owners.
   MORTGAGE LOAN and HOME EQUITY LOAN. A loan which is secured by residential
property.
   PREFERRED FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial institution that scores in the
top 25% of the community reinvestment rankings, as described in Subsection 6-
8.9(C)(1).
   REDLINING. The practice of systematically denying credit on the basis of the
geographic location of the borrower or property to be borrowed against.
   RESIDENTIAL LOAN. A mortgage or home equity loan which is secured by
residential property.
   SMALL BUSINESS LOAN. A loan or extension of credit to a new or established
business with an annual gross profit totaling not more than $1,000,000.
   STUDENT LOAN. A loan which is secured for the purposes of financing or
refinancing a student’s attendance at any degree-granting educational
institution authorized by law to provide a program of education beyond the high
school level, made by, or on behalf of, such an institution or a financial
institution.
   WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS. Procedural safeguards established both by a
financial institution and the Municipal Banking Commission that provide
financial institution employees with a confidential, reprisal free mechanism
for reporting actions involving city funds held in custody by a financial
institution holding city funds that constitute fraud, abuse or waste.
(CBC 1985 6-8.1; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.2   Disclosure of Lending Information and Banking Practices.
   Any institution desiring a contract for banking services with the city or to
become a city depository, as designated by the Collector-Treasurer in
accordance with the City’s Linked Deposit Program, and for which disclosure is
required by the Federal Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (being Pub. Law
No. 94-200, codified at 12 U.S.C. §§ 1801 et seq. and 461 et seq., “HMDA”), the
Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (being 12 U.S.C. §§ 2901 et seq., “CRA”) and
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (being Pub. Law
No. 111-203, see 12 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., “Dodd-Frank”) or related laws,
shall be required to annually disclose, on forms approved by the Collector-
Treasurer, for the entire city, for each census tract within the city, for each
census tract outside the city that is within the Boston SMSA and for Boston
residents, the financial institution’s:
   (A)   Loan activity. The number of loans and total dollar amount, the median
effective interest rate, the median down payment, the median amortization and
the percentage of such applicants whose applications were denied for Boston
residents, including, but not limited to, low and moderate income, minority and
female applicants for the following types of loans:
      (1)   Residential lending information:
         (a)   Data shall be reported separately for property containing one to
four dwelling units, five to eight dwelling units and more than eight dwelling
units applied for and originated during the previous calendar year in each of
the following categories:
            1.   Conventional mortgage loans;
            2.   Mortgage loans which are insured under Title II of the Housing
Act of 1949, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1471 et seq., or which are guaranteed under 38
U.S.C. Chapter 37 (FHA or FMHA loans) or 38 U.S.C. Chapter 20 (VA loans);
            3.   Mortgage loans which are insured or financed by the
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency (“MHFA”); and
            4.   Mortgage loans offered through the Mass Housing Partnership
SoftSecond mortgage program or other comparable affordable mortgage products.
         (b)   The financial institution shall also include separate
information and data on loans to households with incomes below 80% of area
median income, to households with incomes between 80% and 120% of area median
income and to demographics as reported under the Federal Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act of 1975 (being Pub. Law No. 94-200, codified at 12 U.S.C. §§
1801 et seq. and 461 et seq.
      (2)   Refinancing of home purchase loans. The financial institution shall
also include separate information and data on loans to households with incomes
below 80% of area median income, to households with incomes between 80% and
120% of area median income and to demographics as reported under the Federal
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act;
      (3)   Home improvement loans or rehabilitation loans made on residential
properties;
      (4)   Home equity loans;
      (5)   Multi-family loans;
      (6)   Loans to non-occupant owners of single family housing;
      (7)   Modifications of distressed loans and type of modification,
including interest rate reductions, principal reduction or repayment plans in
which the outstanding loan amount increases, and an indication of whether the
modification was executed under the federal Home Affordable Modification
Program (“HAMP”) or another federal program, Massachusetts’ Home Modification
Loan Program (“HMLP”) or another commonwealth program, or the institution’s own
modification program;
      (8)   Defaults and delinquencies on home loans, the number of resulting
foreclosures, the number of eviction actions filed and the financial
institution’s policies around foreclosure activities, including interactions
with the occupants of the property and any actions taken to evict or otherwise
displace them;
      (9)   (a)   The financial institution shall also provide information on
the total number of foreclosed (REO) property in the city of which the
financial institution, or its parent or subsidiary, is the owner, in addition
to the number of such properties owned by an entity for which the financial
institution is the servicer, trustee or Agent and the length of time each REO
property has remained on the market.
         (b)   For each of the above categories, fixed rate loans shall be
reported separately from adjustable rate loans. For residential loans and home
equity loans, financial institutions shall disclose, as applicable: age and
credit scores of applicants and borrowers; points and fees at origination; rate
spread (the difference between the APR for the loan and the benchmark for all
loans); terms of prepayment penalties; property value; actual or proposed term
of any introductory period after which rate may change; presence or any
contractual terms that would allow a borrower to make other than fully
amortizing payments during the term of the loan; actual or proposed term of
loan; mortgage channel through which application is made (e.g., retail, broker
or other category).
      (10)   Small business lending information. Data should include resident
owned business enterprises in the entire city and in each census tract. Loans
to small businesses with revenues above $1,000,000 shall be reported separately
from loans to small businesses with revenues under $1,000,000. The financial
institution may use the data reporting procedures mandated by the Federal
Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (being 12 U.S.C. §§ 2901 et seq.) for
reporting small business loans;
      (11)   Community development loans and investments. For each loan and
investment, the institution shall indicate if the loan or investment was for
affordable housing, small business development, community facilities and other
such categories requested by the Collector-Treasurer or Municipal Banking
Commission;
      (12)   Consumer loans and other lines of credit. Data shall including the
minimum, median and maximum nominal and effective interest rates applied; the
number and dollar amount of all credit card loans charged above an 18% rate of
interest;
      (13)   Student loans;
      (14)   For consumer loans, home improvement loans or student loans,
financial institutions shall also disclose information which includes the rate
spread and the terms of any prepayment penalties; and
      (15)   Any additional information requested by the Collector-Treasurer.
   (B)   Participation and services.
      (1)   Branches and deposits. The number of branches, ATMs and number and
dollar amount of deposits for the entire city and for each census tract;
deposit information, including, but not limited to, the number of savings and
checking accounts and the total aggregate dollar balances in savings and
checking accounts; the percentage of accounts held by city residents assessed
with overdraft fees; and the value of such fees;
      (2)   Workforce composition. Compliance information with the Boston Jobs
and Living Wage Ordinance, Chapter 24;
      (3)   The most recent annual report or SEC 10-K report with quarterly
financial updates;
      (4)   The most recent “Community Reinvestment Act Evaluation” issued by
the commonwealth and federal regulatory Agency authorized to conduct such
evaluations; and
      (5)   A copy of the financial institution’s branch closing policy. It
shall be the policy of the city to require that financial institutions give
written notice to the Mayor, Boston City Council and Collector-Treasurer 120
days prior to the closing of any branch of such financial institution located
within the city. The notice shall identify the location of the branch, the date
on which the branch is expected to close and the reason for the closing of the
branch.
(CBC 1985 6-8.2; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.2A   Financial Strength.
   Any institution desiring a contract for banking services or designation as a
city depository with the city shall be required by the Collector-Treasurer in
the process for request for proposals to provide evidence of its financial
strength. At minimum, the financial institution shall provide an audited
balance sheet and income statement for its two most recent fiscal years. If the
financial institution is a subsidiary of a larger organization, this
information should be included for both the parent and offering entities.
(CBC 1985 6-8.2A; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.3   Pledge.
   Beginning in January of 2015, any institution desiring a contract for
banking services with the city shall be required in the process for request for
proposals, or prior to the deposit of any city monies in a financial
institution, the Collector-Treasurer shall obtain the following pledges from an
authorized official of the institution:
   (A)   Community reinvestment. To develop lending and financing opportunities
and make best efforts to undertake a defined lending program in support of
residential and commercial development in Boston’s neighborhoods, to cooperate
and support non-profit neighborhood development organizations through financing
programs and investments, to offer banking products and services that would
work with qualified borrowers who become unemployed to be eligible for loan
modifications to avoid foreclosure and cooperate and support non-profit
neighborhood development organizations in their purchase of occupied properties
in foreclosure or owned or serviced by the financial institution;
   (B)   Just cause evictions. To refrain from taking any steps to evict from
foreclosed or otherwise distressed residential property in the city owned or
serviced by the institution, other than for “just cause” as that term is
defined in Subsection 6-8.1, any occupants of such property, whether those
occupants are the former owners of the property or tenants of the former
owners;
   (C)   Non-retaliatory practices. To establish whistle blowing mechanisms
that protect employees if they bring forth any evidence of acts that they
reasonably believe constitute a fraud, abuse, misuse or waste of city funds on
deposit by a financial institution selected under this Section, and to provide
information obtained through these procedures to the Collector-Treasurer;
   (D)   Usury laws. To make best efforts to abide by commonwealth usury laws,
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 114B, which sets a maximum interest rate on
consumer credit cards at 18%;
   (E)   Predatory lending. Not to engage in predatory lending activities,
including marketing consumer financial products, consumer loans, commercial
loans and residential loans to residents of the city that cannot reasonably
repay those loans without undue hardship;
   (F)   Discrimination. Not to discriminate against any individual or group
seeking a commercial, community development, consumer, home improvement,
residential, small business or student loan in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, down payment, modification or other terms or
conditions of the loan, because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
handicap, gender identity or expression or national origin of the individual or
group or of any individual or group associated with, him or her in connection
with the loan or other financial assistance for the purposes of the loan or
other financial assistance, or the dwelling or dwellings, if any, in relation
to which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given; or
   (G)   Redlining. Not to engage in redlining activities against any city
neighborhood, including arbitrarily rejecting mortgage loans for residential
properties within a specific geographic area in the city because of the
location or age of the property; and to make and affirmatively market loans
available to low and moderate income individuals in all the neighborhoods of
the city within the limits of legal restrictions and prudent financial
practices.
(CBC 1985 6-8.3; Ord. 2013 C. 9)
6-8.4   Statement of Community Investment Goals.
   Beginning January of 2015, any institution desiring a contract for banking
services with the city or designation as a city depository shall submit
annually to the Mayor, Boston City Council and Collector-Treasurer a plan and
statement of community reinvestment goals. The plan shall describe goals in
terms of loans, investments and services. The statement shall describe the
financial institution’s current and proposed policies and initiatives to
address the credit needs of the city’s residents and businesses, including, but
not limited to low and moderate income, minority and female residents, in each
of the following categories:
   (A)   Home mortgage and home improvement loans;
   (B)   Affordable home mortgage loans, including commitments to the
commonwealth’s Housing Partnership SoftSecond program;
   (C)   Mortgage loans to non-occupant borrowers for small rental properties;
   (D)   Commercial and small business loans for small business enterprises and
minority women business enterprises;
   (E)   Participation in city-sponsored neighborhood development programs and
consortiums;
   (F)   Equitable contributions to community based non-profit organizations in
the city;
   (G)   Full service banking in city neighborhoods;
   (H)   Products and services, including programs for loan modifications,
principal reductions for borrowers and foreclosure prevention programs;
   (I)   Goals established for production and service levels for demographic
targets as described in the first paragraph of Subsection 6-8.2;
   (J)    Reasonable account fees and maximum and minimum interest rates; and
   (K)   The statement shall also contain a description of and declaration that
the financial institution has or shall pursue:
      (1)   A program that allows borrowers who become unemployed to qualify
for loan modifications based on unemployment insurance and forbearance for six
months to one year;
      (2)   Programs that allow borrowers whose personal financial
circumstances change during the life of a loan, or for other reasons are at
risk of defaulting on their loans, to qualify for loan modifications in order
to avoid default and otherwise continue their relationship with the financial
institution;
      (3)   A policy that allows an occupant to remain in the property after
foreclosure at the same rental or for a reasonable use and occupancy throughout
the period of time that the property is owned by the institution, its parent or
subsidiary, or owned by an entity for which the institution is the servicer,
trustee or Agent; and
      (4)   Programs that allow local non-profit organizations to purchase
occupied one four-unit residential properties, through short sale or post
foreclosure bid, at fair market value reflecting the distressed status of the
property.
(CBC 1985 6-8.4; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.5   Failure to Provide Information.
   If any financial institution refuses or fails to provide any of the
information described in Subsections 6-8.2 through 6-8.4, inclusive, the
Collector-Treasurer shall report the refusal or failure to the Mayor and the
City Council. If such institution has previously been designated by the
Collector-Treasurer as an eligible financial institution, the City may, upon
recommendation of the Mayor and City Council, withdraw such designation. The
Collector-Treasurer shall also maintain a list of all financial institutions
that refuse or fail to provide information and that list shall be a public
record.
(CBC 1985 6-8.5; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.6   Municipal Banking and Community Reinvestment Commission.
   There shall be, in the city, a Commission known as the Municipal Banking and
Community Reinvestment Commission for the purposes of analyzing data and
information submitted to the Collector-Treasurer by financial institutions
wishing to accept city deposits and contracts for banking services.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of six members appointed by the Mayor,
one member appointed by the Boston City Council President and three ex officio
members. The Commission shall consist of the following persons:
      (1)   The Collector-Treasurer of the city ex officio or his or her
designee;
      (2)   Two Boston City Council members ex officio appointed by the Boston
City Council President and approved by the City Council;
      (3)   One individual from an organization that seeks to address community
reinvestment needs;
      (4)   One individual from a nonprofit organization which seeks to address
the housing needs in the city;
      (5)   One individual residing in the neighborhoods of the city most
affected by redlining activities or underserved by traditional financial
institutions;
      (6)   One individual representing a public or quasi-public Agency that
has experience in providing loans in city neighborhoods;
      (7)   One individual representing the business community; provided that
if an appointed individual is an employee of a financial institution then that
institution is disqualified from contracting with the city for banking services
or designation as a city depository;
      (8)   One individual representing a labor organization or union; and
      (9)   One interested member of the public appointed by the Boston City
Council President and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The term for each member shall be three years; provided, however, that
of the members first appointed to the Commission, two shall serve for two years
and two shall serve for one year. Thereafter, the Mayor or, if applicable, the
Boston City Council President with approval by the Boston City Council shall
appoint each successor to a term of three years. Any vacancy occurring
otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled by an appointment of the
Mayor or, if applicable, the Boston City Council President with approval by the
Boston City Council for the unexpired term. The Chair shall be elected by the
members of the Commission from among the non-ex officio members of the
Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet at least twice annually.
   (D)   All members of the Commission shall be residents of the city at the
time of their appointment and throughout their tenure. The members may not
otherwise be employees of the city or on its payroll, but shall be special
municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A. The members shall
serve without compensation; provided, however, that each member may be
reimbursed by the Commission for all expenses reasonably incurred by them in
the performance of their duties.
   (E)   The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Mayor and the
Boston City Council evaluating financial institutions that seek contracts for
banking services with the city, or that seek to be designated as city
depositories, and recommend to the Collector-Treasurer those institutions whose
performances best reflect the city’s goal of community reinvestment. The report
shall contain a description of the scoring and ranking system and the criteria
and methodology by which points in each category, pursuant to Subsection 6-8.7,
are awarded to or deducted from a financial institution.
   (F)   In anticipation of this annual report, the Commission shall hold a
hearing for public testimony and receive written comments tor 30 days prior to
the hearing. At the hearing, the public may testify concerning the efforts and
extent to which the deposit banks are meeting the banking needs of the city’s
low and moderate income individuals as well as comment on any data collected
and posted online pursuant to Subsection 6-8.8. A summary of comments collected
and any role played by such comments in the annual report shall be included in
the annual report.
   (G)   The Commission shall be authorized to receive information from
whistleblowers regarding fraud, abuse, waste or misuse of city funds by a
financial institution holding such funds, and to ensure that no reprisal is
taken against any such employee. The Commission shall establish whistle blowing
procedures to further the purposes of this Subsection.
   (H)   The Commission shall be authorized to investigate the accuracy of any
information it receives pursuant to any whistleblower procedures, and to make
its findings public within 14 days of determining that city funds are being
subject to fraud, waste, abuse or misuse by the financial institution.
(CBC 1985 6-8.6; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.7   Evaluation of Data; Community Reinvestment Performance.
   (A)   Consistent with Subsection 6-8.6(E), the Commission’s report and
recommendations shall be based on review of the information submitted required
by Subsections 6-3.2 through 6-8.4, inclusive.
   (B)   The Commission shall devise a scoring and ranking system that will
evaluate the lending and banking practices of each financial institution that
desires a contract for banking services with the city or wishes to begin or
maintain a business relationship with the city as a city depository. Each such
financial institution shall be ranked against its peers and be scored on a
scale of zero to 100 total points, which shall then be known as the financial
institution’s Community Reinvestment Score.
      (1)   Each financial institution will be evaluated in five categories,
each earning 20 points towards its total point score, which shall include the
following:
         (a)   Residential and mortgage lending performance, which shall be
determined utilizing information submitted pursuant to Subsection 6-8.2(A)(l)
through (9) and (15);
         (b)   Small business lending performance, which shall be determined
utilizing information submitted pursuant Subsection 6-8.2(A)(10) and (15);
         (c)   Community reinvestment performance, which shall be determined
utilizing information submitted pursuant to Subsections 6-8.2(A)(11) and (15);
         (d)   Personal lending performance, which shall be determined
utilizing information submitted pursuant to Subsection 6-8.2(A)(12), (13) and
(15), and Subsection 6-8.2(B)(4) and (5); and
         (e)   Boston resident lending and hiring performance, which shall be
determined utilizing information submitted pursuant to Subsection 6-8.2 as a
whole, Subsection 6-8.2(B)(2) specifically and Subsection 6-8.2(A)(15).
      (2)   Each financial institution may be awarded additional points for the
following:
         (a)   Compliance with commonwealth usury laws, M.G.L. Chapter 140,
Section 114B;
         (b)   Confirmation that no steps were taken in the prior year to evict
from residential property in the city obtained via foreclosure, other than for
“just cause” as that term is defined in M.G.L. Chapter 186A, any occupants of
such property, whether those occupants are the former owners of the property or
tenants of the former owners; and
         (c)   Other factors as may be determined by the Commission.
      (3)   Each financial institution may be deducted points for the
following:
         (a)   Unreasonable percentage of default in any of the five categories
identified in division (A) above;
         (b)   Excessive charge of overdraft fees, as determined by the
Commission;
         (c)   Use of unfair marketing practices targeted at financially
vulnerable populations, as determined by the Commission;
         (d)   Unfair discrimination or retaliation against employees who bring
forth evidence of acts that they reasonably believe constitute a fraud, abuse,
misuse or waste of city funds on deposit by a financial institution contracted
with for banking services with the city or designated as a city depository
under this Section;
         (e)   Eviction from foreclosed or otherwise distressed residential
property in the city of which the institution, or its parent or subsidiary, is
the owner, or such property owned by an entity for which the institution is the
servicer, trustee or Agent other than for “just cause”, any occupants of such
property, whether those occupants are the former owners of the property or
tenants of the former owners; and
         (f)   Other factors as may be determined by the Commission.
   (C)   Each financial institution’s rank and score shall be disclosed
publicly pursuant to Subsection 6-8.8.
(CBC 1985 6-8.7; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.8   Public Disclosure.
   The disclosures made by a financial institution pursuant to Subsections 6-
8.2 through 6-8.4 shall be posted on the city’s website for public viewing
within 30 days of submission to the Collector-Treasurer and shall be available
for public inspection and copying.
(CBC 1985 6-8.8; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.9   Eligibility and Bid Preference.
   (A)   The Collector-Treasurer shall include in each of the city’s request
for proposals for banking services a provision that describes additional bid
preference, consistent with commonwealth and federal law, for those financial
institutions that maintain the best performance scores, as described in this
Section.
   (B)   The Collector-Treasurer shall describe, within the city’s request for
proposals, banking services for which the city seeks to utilize local banks and
financial institutions for account services and shall make best efforts to
reach out to eligible local banks and financial institutions, as described in
M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 55, who may submit proposals for banking services.
   (C)   Upon making such evaluation and ranking, the Collector-Treasurer may:
      (1)   Maintain or increase the value of city banking services contracts
or city deposits held by a preferred financial institution, which is an
eligible financial institution that scores in the top 25% of local reinvestment
performance;
      (2)   Maintain or decrease the value of city banking services contracts
or city deposits held by an eligible financial institution that scores between
the twenty-fifth and seventy-fifth percentiles of local reinvestment
performance, not inclusive of the classifications described in division (C)(1)
above; provided that the Collector Treasurer may increase the level of city
banking services contracts or city deposits held by an eligible financial
institution that scores between the twenty-fifth and seventy-fifth percentiles
of local reinvestment performance when it has been determined by the Collector-
Treasurer that preferred financial institutions’ capacities to maintain city
deposits are at their maximum;
      (3)   Terminate city banking services contracts or city deposits from an
ineligible financial institution, which is a financial institution that scores
in the bottom 25% of local reinvestment performance;
      (4)   Commence and negotiate business relationships with a financial
institution that does not presently do any banking business with the city;
provided that the financial institution scores within the top 75% of local
reinvestment performance;
      (5)   Enter into negotiations with a financial institution aimed at
promoting institutional programs and behavior that are consistent with the
public policy goals heretofore stated; and
      (6)   Take other such steps, consistent with sound fiscal practice and
applicable law, as may be necessary or desirable.
   (D)   No contract for banking services shall be awarded to and no city
deposits shall be made in a financial institution that has exhibited a pattern
of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices or has committed past
criminal or civil violations that have resulted in significant harm to the
city’s financial interests.
   (E)   The Collector-Treasurer shall submit the names of all eligible or
ineligible financial institutions to the Mayor and to the Boston City Council
at the time of their designation by the Collector-Treasurer. The Mayor, with
the majority vote of the City Council, shall have 30 days from the date of
submission of the names by the Collector-Treasurer to approve the designation
of each financial institution as an eligible or ineligible financial
institution.
   (F)   A financial institution that fails to disclose the required
information pursuant to Sections 6-8.2 and 6-8.4 or scores in the bottom 25% of
local reinvestment performance shall not be eligible to receive city deposits
or conduct any other banking transaction with the city until such financial
institution submits the required forms and has been reviewed by the Boston City
Council and approved by the Mayor.
(CBC 1985 6-8.9; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-8.10   Severability Clause.
   Each of the provisions and Subsections of this Section are severable. If any
of its provisions, Sections or Subsections shall be held unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decisions of such
court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, Sections or
Subsections.
(CBC 1985 6-8.10; Ord. 2013 c. 9)
6-9   DEPARTMENTAL REVOLVING FUNDS.
6-9.1   Purpose.
   This Section establishes and authorizes revolving funds for use by City
Departments, Boards, Committees, Agencies or Officers in connection with the
operation of programs or activities that generate fees, charges or other
receipts to support all or some of the expenses of those programs or
activities. These revolving funds are established under and governed by M.G.L.
Chapter 44, Section 53E½.
(CBC 1985 6-9.1; Ord. 2017 c. 2)
6-9.2   Expenditure Limitations.
   A Department or Agency Head, Board, Committee or Officer may incur
liabilities against and spend monies from a revolving fund established and
authorized by this Section without appropriation subject to the following
limitations.
   (A)   Fringe benefits of full-time employees whose salaries or wages are
paid from the fund shall also be paid from the fund, except for those employed
as school bus drivers.
   (B)   No liability shall be incurred in excess of the available balance of
the fund.
   (C)   The total amount spent during a fiscal year shall not exceed the
amount authorized by the Boston City Council on or before July 1 of that fiscal
year, or any increased amount of that authorization that is later approved
during that fiscal year by the Mayor and City Council.
(CBC 1985 6-9.2; Ord. 2017 c. 2)
6-9.3   Interest.
   Interest earned on monies credited to a revolving fund established by this
Section shall be credited to the General Fund.
(CBC 1985 6-9.3; Ord. 2017 c. 2)
6-9.4   Procedures and Reports.
   Except as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 53E½ and this Section, the
laws, charter provisions, ordinances, rules, regulations, policies or
procedures that govern the receipt and custody of city monies and the
expenditure and payment of city funds shall apply to the use of a revolving
fund established and authorized by this Section. The City Auditor shall include
a statement on the collections credited to each fund, the encumbrances and
expenditures charged to the fund and the balance available for expenditure in
the regular report the city auditor provides the Department, Board, Committee,
Agency or Officer on appropriations made for its use.
(CBC 1985 6-9.4; Ord. 2017 c. 2)
6-9.5   Authorized Revolving Funds.
   (A)   Public Art Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Public Art
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Mayor’s Office of Arts and Culture.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Public Art Revolving
Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the revenue received from
easements within the public way granted by the Public Improvement Commission.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Mayor’s
Office of Arts and Culture may incur liabilities against and spend monies from
the Public Art Facilities Revolving Fund for purchasing goods and services to
support public art to enhance the public realm throughout the city.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Public Art Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (B)   Strand Theatre Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Strand Theatre
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Mayor’s Office of Arts and Culture.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Strand Theatre
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the revenue derived
from rental fees for the use of the Strand Theatre charged and received by the
Mayor’s Office of Arts and Culture.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Mayor’s
Office of Arts and Culture may incur liabilities against and spend monies from
the Strand Theatre Revolving Fund for expenses related to the operations of the
Strand Theatre.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Strand Theatre Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (C)   City Hall Child Care Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the City Hall
Child Care Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Centers for Youth
and Families Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the City Hall Child Care
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the revenue from
tuition payments received from parents of children in the program charged and
received by the Boston Centers for Youth and Families Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Centers for Youth and Families Department may incur liabilities against and
spend monies from the City Hall Child Care Revolving Fund to pay salaries and
benefits of employees and to purchase supplies and equipment necessary to
operate the City Hall Child Care.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The City Hall Child Care Revolving Fund shall operate
for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (D)   Boston Public School Transportation Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Boston Public
School Transportation Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Public
School Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Boston Public School
Transportation Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the
revenue received by the Boston Public School Department for the provision of
transportation to groups and entities for field trips and activities other than
transportation to and from school.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Public School Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from
the Boston Public School Transportation Revolving Fund for Boston Public School
Transportation, including bus and public transportation costs.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Boston Public School Transportation Revolving
Fund shall operate for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (E)   Boston Public School Facilities Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Boston Public
School Facilities Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Public School
Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Boston Public School
Facilities Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund receipts
from lease, permit for use and parking fees charged and received by the Boston
Public School Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Public School Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from
the Boston Public School Facilities Revolving Fund to repair and maintain
Boston Public School facilities, including custodial and utility costs for
extended building time, floor refinishing, landscaping and building repairs.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Boston Public School Facilities Revolving Fund
shall operate for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (F)   Boston Public School Technology Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Boston Public
School Technology Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Public School
Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Boston Public School
Technology Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the
revenue derived from equipment sales and repair fees charged and received by
the Boston Public School Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Public School Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from
the Boston Public School Technology Revolving Fund for repairs and purchase of
BPS computer technology including computers, mobile devices and instructional
software.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Boston Public School Technology Revolving Fund
shall operate for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (G)   Distributed Energy Resource Revenue Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Distributed
Energy Resource Revenue Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Environment
Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Distributed Energy
Resource Revenue Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund
the revenue derived from:
         (a)   The sale of solar renewable energy certificates produced by city
photovoltaic arrays;
         (b)   The sale of alternative energy certificates produced by School
Department combined heat and power units; and
         (c)   Demand response program revenues earned by School Department
combined heat and power units charged and received by the Environment
Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Environment
Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the Distributed
Energy Resource Revenue Revolving Fund to:
         (a)   Purchase offsets of greenhouse gas emissions which shall be
associated with a portion of the electricity consumed by the city annually;
         (b)   Monitor, operate and maintain existing city and School
Department photovoltaic arrays; and
         (c)   Monitor, operate and maintain School Department combined heat
and power units.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Distributed Energy Resource Revenue Revolving
Fund shall operate for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (H)   Animal Control Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Animal Control
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Animal Control
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund fees and fines
generated from enforcement actions and registrations charged and received by
the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Parks and
Recreation Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the
Animal Control Revolving Fund to reimburse City Agencies for administrative
costs of enforcing Subsection 16-1.9(A) and (B) and for costs associated with
registration and licensing (of dogs) with fees and fines generated from
enforcement actions and registrations.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Animal Control Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (I)   Third Party Property Damages Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Third Party
Property Damages Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Law Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Third Party Property
Damages Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund receipts
from recoveries for damages to city property caused by third parties charged
and received by the Law Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Law
Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the Third Party
Property Damages Revolving Fund for purchasing goods and services to pay for
repairs to city property.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Third Party Property Damages Revolving Fund shall
operate for fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (J)   City Hall Plaza Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the City Hall
Plaza Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Mayor’s Office of Tourism.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the City Hall Plaza
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the revenue derived
from rental of City Hall Plaza per Subsection 11-7.14.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Mayor’s
Office of Tourism may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the City
Hall Plaza Revolving Fund to purchase goods and services to support events and
programming on and around City Hall Plaza to advance tourism and promote
participation in public celebrations, civic and cultural events.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The City Hall Plaza Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (K)   Police Academy Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Police Academy
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Police Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Police Academy
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund receipts of tuition
and other fees paid by outside law enforcement agencies for training at the
Boston Police Academy charged and received by the Boston Police Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Police Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the
Police Academy Revolving Fund to purchase training equipment, certify
instructors, update facilities and provide funds for other training needs not
otherwise budgeted.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Police Academy Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (L)   Canine Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Canine
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Police Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Canine Revolving
Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund tuition and other fees paid
by outside law enforcement agencies for training with the Canine Unit at the
Boston Police Department Special Operations Division charged and received by
the Boston Police Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Police Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the
Canine Revolving Fund for purchasing training equipment, certifying
instructors, updating facilities to support its Canine Unit training programs
for Officers and Police dogs for non-City of Boston law enforcement agencies,
and providing funds for other training needs.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Canine Revolving Fund shall operate for fiscal
years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (M)   Fitness Center Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Fitness Center
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Police Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Fitness Center
Revolving Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund the revenue derived
from monthly membership fees charged and received by the Boston Police
Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Police Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the
Fitness Center Revolving Fund to pay salaries and benefits of employees and to
purchase supplies and equipment necessary to operate the Police Department
Fitness Center.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Fitness Center Revolving Fund shall operate for
fiscal years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
   (N)   Hackney Revolving Fund.
      (1)   Fund name. There shall be a separate fund called the Hackney
Revolving Fund authorized for use by the Boston Police Department.
      (2)   Revenues. The City Auditor shall establish the Hackney Revolving
Fund as a separate account and credit to the fund a one-time $75 new applicant
fee that drivers pay for Hackney Carriage Driver Training Class charged and
received by the Boston Police Department.
      (3)   Purposes and expenditures. During each fiscal year, the Boston
Police Department may incur liabilities against and spend monies from the
Hackney Revolving Fund for purchasing, leasing or renting space, materials and
equipment to be partially or wholly used for instructional purposes for new
hackney carriage driver applicants and provide funds for other educational
needs.
      (4)   Fiscal years. The Hackney Revolving Fund shall operate for fiscal
years that begin on or after July 1, 2017.
(CBC 1985 6-9.5; Ord. 2017 c. 2; Ord. 2018 c. 3 §§ 1, 2, 3, 4; Ord. 2019 c. 4 §
1)
6-10   LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATIONS.
6-10.1   Establishing Language and Communications Access for City Services.
   (A)   Establishment of the Office of Language and Communications Access.
There shall be established in the city a Department known as the Office of
Language and Communications Access (hereafter known as the “OLCA”) which shall
be under the charge of an Officer known as the Director of Language and
Communications Access (hereafter called “the Director”). The goal of OLCA is to
create pathways for meaningful participation, by way of meaningful access for
groups and individuals who speak a Language Other than English and/or have a
disability. The OLCA will work to ensure that communities of all language and
communications backgrounds are not seen as obstacles, but rather play a
critical, centralized role in decision making.
   (B)   Responsibilities of the Director. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
Department, and potential Agencies included within the Department. The Director
shall also have the ability to hire staff or contract out services as required
in order to provide sufficient and culturally competent translation and
interpretation services and assistive technology.
      (1)   The purpose of the OLCA will be to coordinate with each City
Department’s OLCA Liaison to develop a comprehensive Departmental plan for how
to accommodate people who speak languages other than English, people who cannot
read in their native language and persons with disabilities, through culturally
competent translation and interpretation services and assistive technology.
OLCA will also review and audit existing plans and make recommendations for
ways to improve a Department’s accountability, transparency and quality of
services through a community-centered approach, which will include regular
hearings, community conversations and surveys.
      (2)   The Director shall work with their staff and the community to
create a set of mandatory communications access guidelines for City Departments
and shall work with each Department head in the city to build off of those
guidelines to create a specific communications access plan for their
Department.
      (3)   The Department shall also work with external community members to
help direct constituents to translation, interpretation and assistive
technology. The Department will handle constituent concerns and complaints
regarding the language and communications access services of any given
Department.
   (C)   Department Language Access Plans. Every Department shall designate a
OLCA Liaison whose job it shall be to serve as a liaison between their
Department and the OLCA. On a biennial basis, each Department shall notice its
Departmental plan—which may include what forms are translated, who the OLCA
contact is, the goals and mission statements of the language access plan and
the like—along with any necessary modifications and amendments made to the
previous year’s plan to reflect the changing needs of their constituents. The
plans will be sent to the Director of OLCA and an advisory committee which
shall be composed of representatives from the Boston City Council, Office of
Neighborhood Services, Mayor’s Office for Immigrant Advancement, Mayor’s
Commission for Persons with Disabilities, Office of Fair Housing and Equity,
the Department of Neighborhood Development, Office of Budget Management other
public-facing City Departments as well as members of the City Language
Volunteer Pool. Community organizations which address language and
communications access shall also be invited to play a role in this audit. This
committee will be organized by the Director of the OLCA and will serve as the
centralized implementation entity for the Communications Access ordinance.
   (D)   Interpretation and translation requests.
      (1)   The staff of the OLCA, under the guidance of the Director, shall
work with community organizations that champion language and communications
access for individuals who speak a Language Other than English and/or persons
with disabilities to define a set of guidelines for what culturally competent
interpretation and translation looks like to be used by contracted
interpretation/translation services.
      (2)   The OLCA will procure and manage any contracts for translating
written documents, providing interpretation and assistive technology requested
by City Departments. The staff of the OLCA will coordinate with the OLCA
liaison from each Department to handle equipment, translation and
interpretation requests, and serve as a liaison between City Departments in
consultation with the Office for Immigrant Advancement in matters of language
access and cultural competency, the Commission on Persons with Disabilities in
matters of assistive technology and disability access, and other Departments.
   (E)   Annual review and online dashboard.
      (1)   Annual review. Each Department will undergo an annual review to
evaluate expenses, performance and frequency of service delivery to persons who
speak languages other than English and residents with disabilities. In addition
to this review, there will be a survey for all residents of Boston on the city
website in the city-wide Threshold Languages where constituents can rate and
review their interactions with City Departments.
      (2)   Online dashboard. The OLCA shall create an online dashboard,
accessible to people in the city-wide Threshold Languages which shall publish
the results of the annual survey as well as the Departmental review. Each
constituent-facing Department shall track usage and requests for translation,
interpretation and assistive technology. Every public facing Department shall
share their usage and request data with the OLCA in order to assess any
changing language needs. Usage and request data shall also be published on the
online dashboard. This dashboard will also contain each Department’s language
access plans made available in the city-wide Threshold Languages. At the end of
every calendar year, the OLCA shall submit a report to the City Clerk
evaluating the results of the review. The City Clerk shall forward the report
to the Mayor of the city and shall docket the report and include the docket on
the agenda of the next-occurring meeting of the Boston City Council.
   (F)   Background.
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq., and its regulations require any program or activity receiving federal
financial assistance to take reasonable steps to ensure “meaningful” access to
the information and services they provide. Federal Executive Order 13166
“Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency” (65
Fed. Reg. 50121) issued on August 11, 2000 clarifies the responsibility to
ensure meaningful access to Limited English Proficient (“LEP”) persons by
federally funded entities. Federal financial assistance includes grants,
donations or use (rental) of federal property for the recipient at no cost or
reduced cost. Under Title VI, a PROGRAM OR ACTIVITY and the term PROGRAM mean
all of the operations of a Department, Agency or other instrumentality of a
local government; or the entity of the local government that distributes such
assistance and each such Department or Agency (and each other local government
entity) to which the assistance is extended.
      (2)   Federal guidance directs federal recipients to conduct an
individualized assessment through a four factor analysis to determine what
steps recipients should reasonably take to provide meaningful access to LEP
individuals. The four factors are:
         (a)   The number or proportion of LEP persons eligible to be served or
encountered by the program;
         (b)   The frequency with which LEP individuals come in contact with
the program;
         (c)   The nature and importance of the program or service to people’s
lives; and
         (d)   Resources available to the recipient and costs.
      (3)   Each federal assistance-granting Agency has the responsibility to
make more specific judgments in determining the circumstances and the specific
requirements in conducting their Title VI compliance activities, including
addressing the appropriate mix of written and oral language access assistance.
      (4)   Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12131 et seq., covers state and local governments in requirements to
communicate effectively with people who have communication disabilities.
Covered entities must provide auxiliary aids and services when needed to
communicate effectively with people who have communication disabilities. The
key to communicating effectively is to consider the nature, length, complexity
and context of the communication and the person’s normal method(s) of
communication. The rules apply to communicating with the person who is
receiving the covered entity’s goods or services as well as with that person’s
parent, spouse or companion in appropriate circumstances.
   (G)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT ILLITERACY. The percentage of the population aged 15 years and over
who cannot both read and write with understanding a short simple statement on
their everyday life, as defined by UNESCO.
      ALTERNATIVE COMMUNICATION. Replacing or substituting spoken or written
language with symbols, signing or spelling.
      AUDITORY ORAL DEAF/HARD OF HEARING. The auditory-oral approach to
education teaches Deaf persons to use their residual hearing in combination
with speech reading and contextual cues to better comprehend and use spoken
language. Sign language is not used in this approach, but the person may
instead use CART interpretation or captioning.
      BABEL NOTICE. A short notice included in a document or electronic medium
in multiple languages informing the reader that the communication contains
vital information and explaining how to request translations and other
accessible formats for the document.
      CAPTIONING. The instantaneous translation of the spoken language
translated into text and merged with a video signal for broadcast or
projection.
      CITY VOLUNTEER INTERPRETER POOL. A pool consisting of volunteer city
employees who fluently speak a language other than English for the purpose of
providing informal interpretation, primarily through the phone, to non-English
speaking constituents. Employees are permitted to provide interpretation during
their normal working hours if they have obtained the prior approval of their
supervisor. An employee’s participation in this pool is entirely voluntary and
will not affect the employee’s compensation or status within the Department he
or she is employed in the city and the failure to participate in the City
Volunteer Interpreter Pool shall not, in any way, affect the employee’s
employment or the conditions thereof.
      CITY-WIDE THRESHOLD LANGUAGE. Any language spoken by individuals of the
Language Other Than English population totalling 5% of the population or 1,000
individuals, whichever is less, within the city.
      CONSTITUENT-FACING DEPARTMENTS. Any City Department that interacts with
constituents, either through the provision of service, interactions in person
or by telephone or through community meetings.
      COVERED ENTITY OR ENTITIES. Employers with 15 or more employees,
employment agencies, labor organizations and joint labor-management committees.
      CULTURAL COMPETENCE. Any behavior or communication that effectively
conveys information in a way that respects and accommodates a person’s lived
experiences as it relates to their race, ethnicity, religion, national origin,
economic status and language capabilities.
      DEAF. The lowercase deaf refers to the audiological condition of not
hearing, and the uppercase Deaf refers to particular group of deaf people who
share a language—American Sign Language (“ASL”)—and a culture.
      FINANCIAL CONSTRAINTS. Circumstances which impede the full and optimal
level of allocated funding being utilized by a specific Department.
Circumstances may include, but are not limited to, public health emergencies,
economic recessions or the amount available in the Department’s LCA allocation.
      HARD OF HEARING. Mild-to-moderate hearing loss.
      INTERPRETATION. The oral communication of information from one language
to another. This includes:
         (a)   FORMAL/PROFESSIONAL INTERPRETATION. The oral communication of
information from one language into another mediated by an experienced, formally
trained interpreter. FORMAL/PROFESSIONAL INTERPRETATION should be provided when
the consequences of providing correct and accurate information or understanding
information being provided by a City Agency or Official are such that the
inability to accurately convey information, understand information or
participate in a city process will substantially affect an individual’s rights;
cause serious or life-threatening health implications; or substantially affect
the individual’s ability to maintain or qualify for a city service or benefit.
The city may further provide FORMAL/PROFESSIONAL INTERPRETATION when, in the
opinion of the city, present or imminent circumstances call for the use of such
interpretation;
         (b)   INFORMAL INTERPRETATION. The oral communication of information
from one language into another mediated by a city-trained interpreter. INFORMAL
INTERPRETATION can be provided to help constituents when the circumstances in
division (a) above are not present;
         (c)   AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE (“ASL”). Interpreters use ASL signs,
finger spelling and body language to enable communication between the deaf,
hard of hearing and hearing communities;
         (d)   CONSECUTIVE INTERPRETATION. A mode of interpretation in which
the speaker pauses every few sentences to allow the interpreter to orally
communicate what has just been said into another language;
         (e)   SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRETATION. The oral communication of
information from one language into another when the interpreter speaks at the
same time as the speaker. Simultaneous interpretation equipment is often used
in SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRETATION. The interpreter speaks into a transmitter to
transmit the information to the audience who are equipped with receivers and
earphones to hear the interpreter. SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRETATION allows
information to be interpreted into one or more languages without lengthening
the time needed to communicate in the original language; and
         (f)   COMMUNICATION ACCESS REALTIME TRANSLATION (“CART”)
INTERPRETATION. The instantaneous translation of the spoken language into text
and displayed in various forms.
      LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENT PERSON. An individual with a limited ability
to read, write, speak and understand English, and may speak, read, write or
understand some English. The individual does not have to be limited in all four
areas to (read, write, speak and understand) to be considered Limited English
Proficient and can be the family member of an English speaker who is involved
in the care of that person.
      MEANINGFUL ACCESS. Language and communications assistance that results in
accurate, timely and effective communication at no cost to the individual for
which Language Other than English is the primary language spoken, or to an
individual or group of individuals with a disability. MEANINGFUL ACCESS denotes
access that is not significantly restricted, delayed or inferior as compared to
programs or activities provided to individuals or a group of individuals for
which Language Other than English does not apply, or to individuals or a group
of individuals who do not experience a disability.
      MEANINGFUL PARTICIPATION. People who speak languages other than English
and/or individuals with a disability are able to access, communicate and
interact with City Departments and obtain services in a way that fully
satisfies their needs and concerns. MEANINGFUL PARTICIPATION is also an
expression of care on behalf of the government to the people, that the city
values centering constituents of all backgrounds and is committed to creating
pathways to make those constituents heard.
      NEIGHBORHOOD THRESHOLD LANGUAGES. Any language spoken by individuals of
the Language Other than English population totaling 5% of the population or
1,000 individuals, whichever is less, within a neighborhood in Boston.
      NOTICE OF ACCOMMODATIONS. A short notice included in all promotional
materials in multiple languages informing the reader that for the identified
program, service or activity, any needed accommodations will be made available
upon request.
      PLAIN LANGUAGE. Any written or oral communication that is easily
understandable to the broadest possible audience, which means eliminating or
omitting unnecessary and excessive words, jargon, technical language or
anything requiring an advanced reading level.
      TRANSLATION. To render communication into another language in written
form. This includes the following.
         (a)   FORMAL TRANSLATION. The rendering of a written communication
into another language by an experienced, formally trained translator. FORMAL
TRANSLATION should be used when, after consideration of the four factors listed
in division (F) above, the city determines that such document is considered
“vital”. “Vital documents” include, but are not limited to, complaint forms;
intake forms with the potential for consequences substantially affecting the
rights of the individual; written notices of rights, denial, loss or decreases
in benefits or services; notices of disciplinary action; and applications to
obtain city benefits or services.
         (b)   INFORMAL TRANSLATION. The rendering of a written communication
into another language by a person who is not formally trained and/or who is not
trained in the profession of interpretation and/or translation. INFORMAL
TRANSLATION may be used when the circumstances in division (a) above are not
present.
         (c)   BACK TRANSLATION. The translation of a translated text into its
original language. It is used to test the quality of the translation.
      UNIVERSAL DESIGN FOR LEARNING. Guidelines that offer a set of concrete
suggestions that can be applied to any discipline or domain to ensure that all
people can access and participate in meaningful, challenging learning
opportunities, such as providing multiple means of engagement, representation
and action and expression.
      VITAL DOCUMENTS. Any form, permit, record or other document that
individuals applying for services or benefits from a covered entity must
understand, respond to or complete in order to access the services/benefits or
continue to receive the services or benefits. VITAL DOCUMENTS, produced by the
city, may include, but are not limited to, certain: administrative complaints,
release or waiver forms; claim or application forms; letter of findings; forms
or written material related to individual rights; certain notices of community
meetings; or other case-related community outreach when specifically determined
by a Department to be of significant importance to groups of individuals with
LOTE likely to be affected by the subject of the community meeting.
   (H)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Generally. All Departments shall endeavor to provide interpretation
to constituents when the city has ascertained that a constituent does not speak
English or when the person has indicated that they prefer to use their native
language. Informal interpretation may be provided through the city’s volunteer
interpreter pool or city-trained bilingual staff.
      (2)   Departmental Interpretation Guidelines.
         (a)   The city shall provide without delay formal interpretation when
a constituent requests interpretation and the inability to accurately convey
information, understand information or participate in a city process will
substantially affect the constituent’s rights; cause serious or life-
threatening health implications to the constituent; or substantially affect the
constituent’s ability to maintain or qualify for a city service or benefit. The
city may further provide formal/professional interpretation when, in the
opinion of the city, present or imminent circumstances call for the use of such
interpretation. The city will provide a language access line for city workers
to call when an individual requires interpretation in a language with no
volunteer interpreter available. The line should also be accessible by “311”
operators when a constituent calls with a question and the operator is unable
to speak that language.
         (b)   All Departments that directly provide services to the city
residents and/or visitors shall post notices that indicate the availability of
interpretation and provide a list of languages available for interpretation. In
order to accommodate those who cannot read, the list of languages should
utilize symbols to convey the services that are available. The OLCA shall work
with external community partners to determine which symbols, icons and the like
work best for these applications. Each Department shall display this sign in
areas where constituents would normally seek help, either in person or online.
         (c)   Before community meetings, City Departments, in consultation
with the OLCA, shall determine the need for translation/interpretation services
in a given neighborhood depending on Neighborhood Threshold Languages and work
to provide those services. The OLCA will determine which neighborhood requires
certain translation/ interpretation services for City Department’s looking to
conduct community outreach. All communication regarding the meeting, including
posts on the Boston Public Notices Board, and the meeting’s language access and
disability accommodations will have a contact phone number and email to the
OLCA as well as the sponsoring Department’s point of contact so that the Office
may provide access to interpretation, subject to availability, by volunteer
interpreters, phone interpreters or paid interpreters. Where possible, City
Departments shall endeavor to hold in-language meetings.
         (d)   If a City Department or Official determines that a bilingual
member of its staff may provide and ensure broader and more meaningful
understanding to the LEP individual regarding the LEP individual’s business
with the City Department, the Department may rely on one or more bilingual
staffers to communicate directly with the LEP individual in his or her primary
language. In such cases, interpretation is not necessary. Prior to permitting a
bilingual member of the staff engage with LEP individuals in languages other
than English, the Department Head will be responsible for ascertaining his or
her staff member’s fluency in a language other than English, including his or
her fluency in Agency terminology.
      (3)   City Volunteer Interpreter Pool guidelines.
         (a)   To assist all Departments to better serve its diverse
constituents, the city will continue to recruit, maintain and train the City
Volunteer Interpreter Pool. After a staff member is verified to have
appropriate language skills to provide interpretation, the city will provide
in-house trainings in essential skills for interpreters such as language rights
for those constituents they are interpreting for, ethics training and a
glossary of terms used by the city.
         (b)   Prior to permitting a City employee to participate in the City
Volunteer Translator and Interpreter Pool, the city’s language access
coordinator will be responsible for ascertaining the city employee’s fluency in
a language or languages other than English, including his or her fluency in
Agency terminology in such other language or languages.
         (c)   Training should be provided for bilingual workers and Volunteer
Interpreter Pool members who provide informal interpretation for the city.
Initial interpretation training should include the ethics of interpretation,
techniques in interpretation and familiarity with the city Glossary of Terms.
Subsequent trainings will be provided annually based on the needs of the
Volunteer Interpreter Pool and other bilingual staff who provide informal
interpretation for their Departments.
   (I)   Translation.
      (1)   Identification and standardization. Each Department shall identify
its vital documents and other such information that is a vital communication,
or any such other documents that include vital information. Other crucial
information may be translated if after consideration of the factors outlined in
division (F) above a City Department determines that such information should be
translated. All vital documents produced by the city shall be standardized in
their accessible formatting, and all vital documents shall:
         (a)   Be translated into the identified city-wide or Neighborhood
Threshold Languages, when applicable;
         (b)   Include a Babel notice if such vital document has not yet been
translated;
         (c)   Be made digitally accessible in text readable formatting;
         (d)   Include, as feasible, a Notice of Accommodation and/or
accessibility symbols;
         (e)   Be accompanied with context- specific image descriptions; and
         (f)   Where the vital document is a vital communication produced by
the city and is available through audio or audiovisual input only, be
accompanied with a written transcript that is checked for accuracy before it is
posted.
      (2)   Departmental Translation Guidelines.
         (a)   Translation arrangements. If a City Department is unable to
translate a document in accordance with division (I)(1) above due to lack of
funding or otherwise, the Department shall make arrangements with the OLCA to
contract out the service so that it may be translated. If financial constraints
impede the city’s ability to have a vital document translated, the vital
document will include a Babel notice made available in the city-wide Threshold
Languages. The document will also include an estimation of when the translation
will be made available.
         (b)   Documents for the public shall be translated according to OLCA
Guidelines. City Departments shall endeavor to have translations of vital
documents provided to the public completed and reviewed by certified and
trained professionals. An exception to this guideline may arise when a
translation is done for internal purposes and as to a document that is not
considered a vital document.
         (c)   Contract with professional translators. City Departments shall
work with the OLCA to gain access to qualified translation vendors on city
contract.
         (d)   Timeline of translation for vital documents and vital
information. Any information that is deemed necessary to translate into the
city-wide Threshold Languages shall be released at the same time that the
information is released in English to the best effort possible.
      (3)   Glossary of city terms. To ensure consistency of translation, the
city shall work with their constituency to develop a common glossary of terms
that are used by various City Departments. Once a common glossary of terms has
been identified, it will be translated into the Threshold Languages and made
accessible to all City Departments. Every City Department shall direct their
professional and volunteer translators to refer to the glossary while
translating a document, to ensure consistency of translation across
Departments. Each City Department may also develop a glossary of specialized
terms that the particular Department uses and make available this glossary to
every translator that it uses to ensure consistent translation of all
Department materials. The city-wide and Department glossaries of terms will
also be made available to the public in the city-wide threshold languages, and
members of the public will be able to submit to the OLCA terms which they feel
will be helpful to add to the glossary.
      (4)   Plain language clause. The documents and information that City
Departments release shall endeavor to reflect principles of plain language
communications. For example, signs and flyers shall be easy to understand, and
not include arcane or technical language, unnecessary polysyllabic words, legal
jargon or other text requiring an advanced reading level. An exception to this
guideline may arise when the language of a document must remain the same as
required by law.
      (5)   Cultural competency clause. When translating a document or any
other important information, City Departments are encouraged to call upon the
cultural norms of any given audience, understanding that sometimes literal
translations do not adequately convey information in languages other than
English. Efforts should be made to accommodate not just the language spoken,
but the language-speaking community it seeks to impact, understanding that not
all language speakers interact with the language the same way. Should there be
any question as to whether a document is translated within the framework of
cultural competency, the Department shall work with the OLCA to consult with
impacted communities and non-governmental organizations which includes
community resources, partnerships and other relationships to find a translation
that best reflects the information being communicated.
      (6)   Literacy taskforce recommendation. City Departments will strive to
provide information, vital documents and city webpages in a way that
accommodates individuals who cannot read or write in any language, based upon
the recommendations of a literacy taskforce to be established formally by
ordinance.
   (J)   Customer service.
      (1)   Phone interpretation line. The city will contract with a phone
interpretation line in order to service their “311” system and other City
Offices when there is no volunteer or professional interpreter present to
provide language access.
      (2)   List of common phrases and greetings. All Departments that provide
direct services to city constituents shall provide their front line employees
with a document which contains helpful phrases, such as “Please wait. We are
trying to locate an interpreter to assist you”, in the city’s city-wide
Threshold Languages if said Departments receive direct or indirect federal
financial assistance.
      (3)   Quick access. Card with language access protocols: The city shall
provide laminated cards to all direct or front desk staff that delineate in a
succinct and short manner the language services the city can provide and how to
access them. A City Department with major public contact shall conduct outreach
to LEP communities they serve to inform them of the available language access
services available.
   (K)   Record keeping. The city shall track the length and type of any
telephonic interpretation call using the language line, as well as the accuracy
and satisfactory provision of interpretation. Using a centralized database,
Departments shall keep a record of all materials translated, as well as
languages translated. This centralized dashboard shall be made available to the
public and shall be included in the OLCA’s annual report to the Clerk’s Office.
   (L)   Training. All Department Heads will be trained on the Communication
Access Policy regulations and the Communications Access Plan to ensure
understanding of their responsibilities. Managers and front line staff shall
receive training to provide language access to constituents through
interpretation and translation, how to access and use existing resources,
record keeping and cultural competence. All 311 Operators shall receive
training on their responsibilities in providing communications access to all
constituents through interpretation, how to ask a constituent to wait in line
and how to access the phone interpreter service. The city shall provide
interpretation training to participants of the city’s Volunteer Interpreter
Pool and any staff who offers informal interpretation services at his or her
Department.
   (M)   Compliance.
      (1)   The OLCA will work with each Department to provide the oversight
and quality control of language access services and be the official point of
contact for constituent complaints. The city shall implement feedback
mechanisms for constituents to log complaints related to communications access,
via telephone, email or survey form made available online.
      (2)   Constituent-facing Departments shall identify a volunteer
Communications Access Liaison who can provide a constituent with information
how to file a complaint with the OLCA or can help resolve language access
problems within their Office; provided that the responsibilities of such
individual are not contrary to a pre-existing collective bargaining agreement
to which the city employee is a party to. If possible, the liaison shall be a
bilingual/multilingual staff member.
      (3)   The OLCA for the city shall create an employee development,
training strategy and quality control protocols to be provided to all
Department Heads during their communications access training. The OLCA shall
conduct Department training on language and communications access protocols.
Language and communications access protocols will include but not be limited
to: communication with the OLCA, translation/interpretation requests, cultural
sensitivity amongst monolingual staff, utilization and enforcement of the plain
language clause and the like
      (4)   Department Heads will be tasked in ensuring the quality control
protocols provided by the OLCA are consistently used in their Offices and
reporting any changes that should be made to these protocols in order to
provide the most reliable and cost effective services to constituents. All
constituent-facing city employees and personnel will be trained yearly on their
Department’s Language and Communications access plans, along with any other
necessary materials.
      (5)   The OLCA shall oversee the process to ensure that all volunteer
language interpreter staff in public contact positions have been vetted as
having sufficient language skills and that they are providing adequate
interpretation. For volunteers who have been deemed not to have sufficient
language skills, feedback and links to resources shall be provided by the OLCA
so that they may hone their skills.
      (6)   Every Department must keep a list of all of their written materials
that are required to be translated and must review this list on a yearly basis
to ensure all vital documents that need to be translated are current. This list
should be easily accessible to members of the public.
      (7)   The OLCA shall hold a listening forum at least once a year to seek
feedback from the community on language and communications access issues in the
city. The OLCA will conduct outreach to community groups and the general public
to invite them to the public listening meeting. Listening forums shall be
offered in the city-wide Threshold Languages.
   (N)   Available funding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, if
a City Department determines that meeting the foregoing requirements, in whole
or in part, is not possible due to financial constraints, the City Department
shall identify a phased approach to meet such requirements. Said phased
approach shall be provided to the OLCA and the Department shall work with that
Office to implement its Departmental plan in accordance with its phased
approach.
   (O)   Conflict with other language access guidelines. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this Section, if a City Department receiving federal financial
assistance either directly or indirectly has developed and implemented a plan
or policy pursuant to federal rules, regulations, guidelines or other policy
directives to ensure communications access to its services, programs and
activities that are substantially equivalent to or greater than the
requirements pursuant to this Section, the City Department may utilize and
implement said plan or policy in lieu of the requirements of this Section. The
City Department shall submit its communications access policy and the
applicable federal rules, regulations, guidelines or policy directive to the
OLCA. The submission shall be accompanied by a cover letter that attests that
said access policy or plan meets the requirements of applicable federal rules,
regulations, guidelines or other policy directives, and the aforesaid cover
letter shall be signed by the Department head.
(CBC 1985 6-10.1; Ord. 2016 c. 13; Ord. 2021 c. 9 § 1)
6-11   GENDER INCLUSION.
   (A)   All existing and future city-issued forms, documents and certificates
that provide for a gender or sex designation shall do so using language that
includes all genders and family structures. All forms shall include an option
where an individual may designate their chosen name if different from their
legal name.
   (B)   The Office of Intergovernmental Relations shall prepare a report for
the Council, listing all city forms or documents that require individuals to
designate their gender or sex, whether the form has a gender neutral
designation option, and whether, if applicable, binary gender designation is
required by city, commonwealth or federal law. This report shall be filed in
Boston City Council within 60 days of the passage of this Section.
(CBC 1985 6-6-11; Ord. 2020 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2022 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2023 c. 11)
CHAPTER VII: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Section
7-1   CONSERVATION COMMISSION
   
7-1.1   Composition of Board; Terms of Office
   
7-1.2   Powers and Duties
   
7-1.3   Duties of Public Facilities Commission and Public Improvement
Commission
   
7-1.4   Wetlands Protection and Climate Adaptation
7-2   AIR POLLUTION CONTROL COMMISSION
   
7-2.1   Appointment; Powers and Duties
   
7-2.2   Building Emissions Reduction and Disclosure
   
7-2.3   Diesel Emissions Reductions
7-3   BAY VILLAGE HISTORIC DISTRICT
   
7-3.1   Bay Village Historic District
   
7-3.2   Definitions
   
7-3.3   Bay Village Historic District Commission
   
7-3.4   Administration of Historic Districts
   
7-3.5   Exemptions to Review
   
7-3.6   Applications for Certificates from Historic District Commission
   
7-3.7   Appeals
   
7-3.8   Enforcement
   
7-3.9   Fees
   
7-3.10   Other Function of Commission
   
7-3.11   Severability
7-4   PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
   
7-4.1   Composition of Board
   
7-4.2   Powers and Duties
   
7-4.2A   Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioners to the Parks and
Recreation Department
   
7-4.3   Control of Parks, Public Grounds, Baths, Beaches, Gymnasia and
Convenience Stations
   
7-4.4   Control of Portions of Post Office, Dock and Faneuil Hall Squares
   
7-4.5   Care of Flag Poles
   
7-4.6   Music
   
7-4.7   Establishing Protections for the City Tree Canopy
   
7-4.8   Promulgation of Rules and Regulations, Fixing of Penalties
   
7-4.9   Seats on Common and Public Garden for Use of Women and Children
   
7-4.10   Restrictions on Park Frontages
   
7-4.11   Permission for Construction Near Parks or Parkways
   
7-4.12   Setback Requirements
   
7-4.13   Further Setback Requirements
   
7-4.14   Smoking Prohibited in Parks
   
7-4.15   Use of Smokeless Tobacco and Other Tobacco Products Prohibited at
Sites for Professional and Amateur Baseball and Other Sporting Events
7-5   CEMETERY DIVISION
   
7-5.1   Cemetery Division
   
7-5.2   Regular Cemetery Hours
   
7-5.3   Deeds for Lots; Restrictions
   
7-5.4   Agreement for Perpetual Care
7-6   FREEDOM TRAIL COMMISSION
7-7   TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
   
7-7.1   Establishment of Department
   
7-7.2   Commissioner to Place Street Signs
   
7-7.3   Removal of Stolen Motor Vehicles
   
7-7.4   Use of Traffic Control Signal Violation Monitoring System Devices
7-8   MOTOR VEHICLE MANAGEMENT BUREAU
   
7-8.1   Division Established; Duties
   
7-8.2   Director, Additional Staff
   
7-8.3   Requests
   
7-8.4   Motor Vehicle List
   
7-8.5   Off Duty Use
   
7-8.6   Garaging of Vehicles
   
7-8.7   Rules and Regulations
   
7-8.8   Credit Card Use
7-9   ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION
   
7-9.1   Commissioner; Appointment, Term, Compensation and the Like
   
7-9.2   Powers and Duties of Commission
   
7-9.3   Animal Spay and Neuter Clinic
7-10   ESTABLISHING FOR A LIMITED TIME A SPECIAL COMMISSION TO BE KNOWN AS THE
ALLSTON/BRIGHTON COMMONWEALTH AVENUE COMMISSION
   
7-10.1   Commission Established
   
7-10.2   Organization of Commission; Meetings
   
7-10.3   Duties of the Commission
   
7-10.4   Purpose
   
7-10.5   Cooperation with Other Departments; Boards and Agencies
   
7-10.6   Annual Report
   
7-10.7   Expiration
7-11   CLEAN CITY COMMISSION
7-12   ENVIRONMENTAL ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT COMMISSION
7-13   RECYCLING PROGRAM
   
7-13.1   Recycling Program Established
   
7-13.2   Purposes
   
7-13.3   Definitions
   
7-13.4   Recycling Mechanisms
   
7-13.5   Recycling Targets and Contracts
   
7-13.6   Enforcement and Incentives
   
7-13.7   Reporting Requirements
   
7-13.8   Commercial Recycling
   
7-13.8.1   Commercial Recycling Requirements for Waste Haulers
   
7-13.8.2   Purpose
   
7-13.8.3   Definitions
   
7-13.8.4   Permitted Haulers to Comply
   
7-13.8.5   Alternative Procedure
   
7-13.8.6   Education
   
7-13.8.7   Enforcement
   
7-13.8.8   Penalties
   
7-13.8.9   Severability
   
7-13.8.10   Implementation
   
7-13.9   Purchasing Policy
   
7-13.10   Fiscal Constraints
   
7-13.11   Severability
7-13A   ACCESS TO RECYCLING PROGRAMS AND SERVICES—LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
WITH MORE THAN SIX UNITS
   
7-13A.1   Purpose
   
7-13A.2   Definitions
   
7-13A.3   Access to Recycling Programs and Services
   
7-13A.4   Owners Unable to Comply; Exemption
   
7-13A.5   Recycling Guides
   
7-13A.6   Inspections, Enforcement and Penalties
   
7-13A.7   Annual Report
   
7-13A.8   Implementation
   
7-13A.9   Severability
7-14   INDOOR AIR QUALITY
   
7-14.1   Indoor Air Quality Unit
   
7-14.2   Air Quality in School Buildings
   
7-14.3   Air Quality in Other Public Buildings
   
7-14.4   Annual Report
7-15   BOSTON COMMEMORATION COMMISSION
   
7-15.1   Purpose
   
7-15.2   Establishing the Boston Commemoration Commission
   
7-15.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Boston Commemoration
Commission
7-1   CONSERVATION COMMISSION.
7-1.1   Composition of Board; Terms of Office.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Conservation
Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, ex officio,
and six Conservation Commissioners, who shall be residents of the city,
appointed by the Mayor, of whom two shall be appointed from candidates
nominated, one each by the Board of Directors or like body of the following
corporations or organizations: the Massachusetts Audubon Society, Inc.; the
Massachusetts Forest and Park Association; the Massachusetts Roadside Council;
the Trustees of Reservations; the Eastern Massachusetts Group of the New
England Chapter of the Sierra Club; Boston Green Space Alliance; the Boston
Harbor Associates; Boston Urban Gardeners; Friends of the Boston Harbor
Islands; Save the Harbor/Save the Bay; the Boston Natural Areas Fund; the
Charles River Watershed Association and the Neponset River Watershed
Association. As the term of any Conservation Commissioner expires, his or her
successor shall be appointed in like manner for a term of three years. Any
vacancy in the Office of a Conservation Commissioner shall be filled in like
manner for the unexpired term.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the Conservation
Commissioners as Chair and another as Vice-Chair. The Commission shall elect a
secretary who need not be a member of the Commission.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, and shall be
deemed to be special municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter
268A.
(Ord. 1970 c. 10; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 1;
CBC 1985 7-1.1; Ord. 1988 c. 16 §§ 1-4)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 268A; Ord. ss 7-4.1
7-1.2   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   The Conservation Commission shall, subject to the provisions of the
charter as that term is defined in M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 5, have
the powers and perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed on
conservation commissions by M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8C.
   (B)   The Commission, with the approval of the City Council, may, from time
to time, promulgate, amend and repeal regulations relative to the collection of
recyclable materials. Such regulations shall be adopted only after public
hearing and in consultation with the Commissioner of Public Works. The
Commission may, in its own discretion, grant or withhold a permit or permits
allowing the collection of recyclable materials from places on or abutting
public ways, which permit or permits may allow practices prohibited by
Subsection 16-1.21; provided, however, that before any such permit is issued
the Commission shall satisfy itself that the potential permittee will conduct
such collection in a manner consistent with the protection of the public health
and safety. No such permit shall be issued for a period greater than one year,
and all shall be subject to revocation by the Commission at any time. The
Commission may impose conditions and restrictions on permittees and may require
the posting of security for faithful performance by a permittee.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 2; Ord. 1973 c. 12 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7
§ 2; CBC 1985 7-1.2)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7; M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8C
7-1.3   Duties of Public Facilities Commission and Public Improvement
Commission.
   The Public Facilities Commission shall not transfer any land from the
municipal purpose to which it is devoted at the time of transfer to any other
municipal purpose unless not less than 14 nor more than 90 days prior to
transfer, the Director of Public Facilities has given the Conservation
Commission written notice of his or her intention to recommend such transfer;
nor shall the Public Improvement Commission lay-out, relocate or widen any
public way unless not less than 14 nor more than 90 days prior to such laying-
out, relocation or widening, the Commissioner of Public Works has given the
Conservation Commission written notice of his or her intention to recommend
such laying-out, relocation or widening.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 3; CBC 1985 7-1.3)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 8 §§ 11,12; Ord. ss 11-6.9
7-1.4   Wetlands Protection and Climate Adaptation.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The purpose of this Section is to protect the wetlands, water
resources, flood-prone areas and adjoining upland areas of the city from loss
of their function, value or acreage by controlling activities and mitigating
effects deemed by the Boston Conservation Commission (“Conservation Commission”
or “Commission”) likely to have a significant individual or cumulative adverse
effect upon protection of the following resource area values, including, but
not limited to: protection of the public or private water supply and quality;
protection of the public and private groundwater supply and quality; short term
and long term coastal and stormwater flood control, erosion and sedimentation
control; storm damage prevention, including coastal storm flowage; protection
of surface water supply and quality, including water pollution control; flood
conveyance and storage; protection of fisheries, land containing shellfish,
wildlife habitat, rare and endangered plant and animal species and habitat,
wetland plant habitat and recreation and to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public and to mitigate impacts from climate change.
Collectively, these are the resource area values and interests (“Resource Area
Values”) protected by this Section.
      (2)   This Section is intended to utilize the home rule authority of the
city to supplement the jurisdiction, authority and procedures of the
Conservation Commission, and to protect additional resource areas, for
additional values, with additional standards and procedures stricter than those
of the Wetlands Protection Act, M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40, (hereinafter,
the “Act”) and regulations thereunder, 310 CMR 10.00 (hereinafter, the
“Regulations”).
   (B)   Definitions. Except as otherwise provided in the ordinance or its
regulations, the definitions of terms in this Section shall be as set forth in
the Act and the Regulations. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUTTER. The owner of any lot that is adjacent to (sharing property lines
with) the project locus; the owner of any lot directly opposite on any public
or private street or way; the owner of any lot within 300 feet of the property
line where the activity is proposed; the owner of any of the above who may be
in another municipality or across a body of water; the owner of any of the
above whose mailing addresses are shown on the most recent tax assessors’
records. When work is in land under water bodies and waterways, or on a tract
of land greater than 50 acres, then written notification must be given only to
ABUTTERS within 300 feet of the project site.
      ACT. The Wetlands Protection Act, M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40 and,
whenever appropriate, the Regulations thereunder, 310 CMR 10.00.
      ACTIVITY. On or in any area subject to protection by the ordinance and
its regulations: any form of draining, dumping, dredging, damming, discharging,
excavating, filling or grading; the erection, reconstruction or expansion of
any building or structure; the driving of pilings; the construction or
improvement of roads and other ways; the alteration of site hydrology or runoff
characteristics; the intercepting or diverting groundwater or surface water;
the installation of drainage, sewage and water systems; the discharging of
pollutants; the destruction of plant life; and any other alteration of the
physical characteristics of land or the physical or chemical characteristics of
water. ACTIVITY shall also include any project by any public Agency or person
requiring a permit issued by the city Inspectional Services Department or its
successor.
      ADAPTATION. Measures designed or intended to protect resource areas from
the impacts of climate change and to protect the ability of resource areas to
mitigate the impacts of climate change through providing the Resource Area
Values protected by the ordinance.
      AGENT. Any Conservation Commissioner or City staff who is appointed Agent
by a majority vote of the Conservation Commission at a regularly scheduled
meeting of the Conservation Commission, and upon written approval of the Mayor.
(M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8C).
      ALTER. To change the condition(s) of any area subject to protection by
the ordinance and shall include but not be limited to one or more of the
following actions undertaken to, upon, within, under or affecting the resource
areas protected by this Section:
         (a)   Fill, removal, excavation or dredging of soil, sand, gravel or
aggregate material of any kind;
         (b)   Changing of pre-existing drainage characteristics, flushing
characteristics, salinity distribution, sedimentation patterns, flow patterns
or flood storage retention areas;
         (c)   Draining, disturbing or lowering of the water level or water
table;
         (d)   The dumping, discharging or filling with any material;
         (e)   Driving of pilings, erection of buildings or structures of any
kind;
         (f)   Placing of any object or obstruction whether or not it
interferes with the flow of water (other than boats, fish or shellfish traps);
         (g)   Destruction, extensive trimming or removal of plant life,
vegetation or trees;
         (h)   Changing of water temperature, biochemical oxygen demand,
nutrient concentration or chemical concentration or other natural
characteristics of the receiving water;
         (i)   Any activity, alteration or work which may cause or tend to
contribute to pollution or degradation to the quality of any body of water;
         (j)   Application of pesticides and herbicides;
         (k)   Any activity, alteration or work;
         (l)   Any incremental activity that will or may have a reasonably
foreseeable cumulative adverse effect on the Resource Area Values protected by
the ordinance; or
         (m)   Decreasing the capacity of wetlands to respond to the impacts of
climate change, including without limitation, changes in:
            1.   The timing, intensity and amount of precipitation;
            2.   Temperatures; and
            3.   Intensity and/or frequency of storms, extreme weather events
and/or droughts.
      APPLICANT. A person filing a request for determination of applicability,
an abbreviated notice of resource area delineation, notice of intent or other
application with the Commission.
      AREA OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN. An area so designated by the
Secretary of Environmental Affairs of the commonwealth pursuant to regulations
(301 CMR 12.00), said designation being due to the particular environmental
factors which impact upon the areas in question and which highlight the
importance of each area so designated. The city may separately designate in the
city AREAS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN according to criteria and guidelines
established by the Commission and distinct from those used by the Secretary.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. Derived from FEMA flood maps, the land in a
floodplain within a community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A, AO, AH, AE or VE.
      AREA SUBJECT TO PROTECTION UNDER THE ORDINANCE. See definition for
Resource Area.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. This is the regulatory standard also referred to as the “100-
year flood”. The BASE FLOOD is the national standard used by the National Flood
Insurance Program (“NFIP”) and all Federal Agencies for the purposes of
requiring the purchase of flood insurance and regulating new development.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The computed elevation to which floodwater is
anticipated to rise during the base flood. BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS (“BFEs”) are
shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps (“FIRMs”) and on the flood profiles.
      BEST AVAILABLE MEASURES. The most up-to-date technology or the best
designs, measures, data or engineering practices that have been developed and
that are commercially or readily available.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Technologies, designs, measures, data or
engineering practices that are in general use to protect the resource area
values of the ordinance.
      BOG. See definition for Freshwater Wetlands.
      BORDERING. Any portion of a marsh, freshwater wetland, coastal wetland,
wet meadow, bog, swamp, bank, beach, dune, flat, fen that touches any portion
of a river, stream, brook, creek, pond, vernal pool, reservoir, estuary, lake
or the ocean shall be considered BORDERING.
      BOUNDARY. The boundary of an area subject to protection under the
ordinance. A description of the BOUNDARY of each area is found in the
appropriate Section of the ordinance or 310 CMR 10.00.
      BROOK. See definition for Stream.
      BUFFER ZONE. The areas 100 feet horizontally lateral from the boundary of
any resource area, including: freshwater or coastal wetland (excluding LSCSF),
marsh, wet meadow, bog, swamp, vernal pool, spring, bank, reservoir, stream,
brook, creek, river, lake, pond of any size, beach, dune, estuary, flat or the
ocean.
      BUILDING. A combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed,
temporary or permanent, having a roof enclosed within exterior walls or
firewalls built to form a structure for the shelter of persons, animals or
property.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A written determination by the Conservation
Commission as to whether work or a portion thereof has been completed in
accordance with the permit issued under the ordinance governing said work.
      COASTAL BANK. In addition to the definition found in the regulations
under the Wetlands Protection Act, 310 CMR 10.30, COASTAL BANK shall include
seawalls and bulkheads existing on the effective date of this Section unless
the seawall supplies sediment to coastal beaches, coastal dunes and barrier
beaches. Existing seawalls and bulkheads are presumed significant to the
purpose of the Act and Regulations as a COASTAL BANK because they are designed
to serve as vertical buffers to storm damage.
      COASTAL BEACH. Unconsolidated sediment subject to wave, tidal and coastal
storm action that forms the gently sloping shore of a body of salt water and
includes tidal flats. COASTAL BEACHES extend from the mean low water line
landward to the dune line, coastal bankline or the seaward edge of existing
human-made structures, when these structures replace one of the above lines,
whichever is closest to the ocean.
      COASTAL ENGINEERING STRUCTURE. A structure used to protect homes,
buildings, roadways, utilities or other inland or upland structures on or near
the coast, such as seawalls, revetments, breakwaters, jetties, groins, weirs,
gabions, sandbags, marine mattress, rip-rap, piers, wharfs, bulkheads,
stairways, access ramps, boat ramps, boardwalks, tide gates or any other
structure which by its design alters wave, tidal, current, ice or sediment
transport or is intended to prevent or alleviate storm damage, tidal action,
wave action, littoral flow or erosion.
      COASTAL FLOOD RESILIENCE ZONE (“CFRZ”). The area of land beyond the
current boundary of land subject to coastal storm flowage or land subject to
tidal action that the Commission determines has a reasonable probability of
becoming subject to future coastal storm flowage or tidal action due to sea
level rise (“SLR”) within approximately the next 50 years. The COASTAL FLOOD
RESILIENCE ZONE as delineated on maps adopted by the Commission may be
periodically reviewed and revised by the Commission, and may divided into sub-
zones with different regulatory requirements.
      COASTAL STORM FLOWAGE. Land subject to any inundation caused by coastal
storms up to and including that caused by the 100-year storm, surge of record
or storm of record, whichever is greater.
      COASTAL WETLANDS. Any bank, marsh, swamp, meadow, flat or other lowland
subject to tidal action or coastal storm flowage.
      CONDITIONS. Those requirements set forth in a written permit issued by
the Conservation Commission for the purpose of permitting, regulating or
prohibiting any activity that removes, fills, dredges, builds upon, degrades,
discharges into or otherwise alters an area subject to protection under the
ordinance.
      CONSERVATION COMMISSION (“COMMISSION”). The body in the city comprised of
members lawfully appointed pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8C and
Subsection 7-1.1.
      CREEK. See definition for Stream.
      CUMULATIVE EFFECT. An effect that is significant when considered in
combination with other activities that have occurred, that are occurring
simultaneously or that are reasonably foreseeable, whether such other
activities are contemplated as a separate phase of the same project, or arise
from unrelated but reasonably foreseeable future projects. Future activities
within a site, district or institutional area identified within an annual
budget, capital spending plan, Master Plan, Planned Development Agreement or
equivalent document approved by the city or any other government Agency are
specifically considered to be reasonably foreseeable future projects for the
purposes of this Section. Future effects of sea level rise, coastal or inland
flooding or other future climate change effects are included among CUMULATIVE
EFFECTS.
      DETERMINATION.
         (a)   DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY. A written finding by the
Conservation Commission as to whether a site or the work proposed thereon is
subject to the jurisdiction of the ordinance.
         (b)   DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE. A written finding by the
Conservation Commission that the area on which the proposed work is to be done
or which the proposed work will alter is significant to one or more of the
resource area values identified in and protected by the ordinance and its
regulations.
         (c)   NOTIFICATION OF NON- SIGNIFICANCE. A written finding by the
Conservation Commission that the area on which proposed work is to be done, or
which the proposed work will alter, is not significant to any of the Resource
Area Values of the ordinance.
      EXTENDED RIVERFRONT AREA. See Riverfront Area.
      EXTREME WEATHER EVENT. Weather at the extremes of the historical
distribution lying in the outermost 10% of city weather history, including, but
not limited to, heat and humidity, droughts, winds and microbursts, blizzards
and ice storms, rain and hail, fire, tornadoes, thunderstorms, hurricanes and
tides affected by weather.
      FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (“FEMA”). The federal Agency
responsible for administering the National Flood Insurance Program. FEMA
provides a nation- wide flood hazard area mapping study program for communities
as well as regulatory standards for the development in the flood hazard areas.
      FILL. To deposit any material so as to raise the elevation of land
surface or ground, either temporarily or permanently or to deposit any material
in any resource area covered by this Section so as to impair the resource
values of the area.
      FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention or reduction of flooding and flood damage,
both as currently expected to occur and as projected to occur based on the best
available data regarding the impacts of climate change.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (“FIRM”). An official map of Boston on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to Boston.
      FOOTPRINT. The total square feet within the outermost dimensions of a
building or structure including decks, porches, roofs, overhangs and staircases
without deduction for hallways, stairs, closets, thickness of walls, columns or
other features.
      FRESHWATER WETLANDS. The types of freshwater wetlands are wet meadows,
marshes, swamps, bogs and vernal pools. These include bordering vegetated
wetlands (i.e., bordering on freshwater bodies such as on creeks, rivers,
streams, ponds and lakes), and isolated vegetated wetlands which do not border
on any permanent water body. FRESHWATER VEGETATED WETLANDS are areas where
soils are saturated and/or inundated such that they support wetland indicator
plants. The groundwater and surface water hydrological regime, soils and the
vegetational community which occur in each type of freshwater wetlands,
including both bordering and isolated vegetated wetlands, are defined under
this Section based on M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40.
      GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. Projects and practices incorporating the natural
environment or engineered systems that provide or supplement natural processes
or work in concert with natural systems to provide flood, fire or drought risk
reduction, or clean water or air benefits. GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE practices
protect, restore, augment or mimic ecological processes.
      GROUNDWATER. All subsurface water contained in natural geologic
formations or artificial fill including soil water in the zone of aeration.
      IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. Include without limitation: extreme heat; the
timing, frequency, intensity and amount of precipitation, storm surges and
rising water levels; increased intensity or frequency of storm events or
extreme weather events; and frequency, intensity and duration of droughts.
      IN or WITHIN. In, through, under, over, cantilevered over. With respect
to structures, IN is measured from the drip-line of the roof or foundation or
footing, whichever is closer to the resource area.
      INLAND FLOOD RESILIENCE ZONE (“IFRZ”). The area of land beyond the
current boundary of land subject to flooding that the Commission determines has
a reasonable probability of flooding as the strength, duration or frequency of
precipitation events increase within approximately the next 50 years. The
INLAND FLOOD RESILIENCE ZONE as delineated on maps adopted by the Commission
may be reviewed and revised by the Commission as more accurate information and
precipitation projections become available.
      INTERMITTENT STREAM. See definition of Stream.
      ISOLATED LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING. An isolated depression or closed basin
without an inlet or an outlet. It is an area which at least once a year
confines standing water to a volume of at least ¼ acre-feet and to an average
depth of at least 6 inches.
      ISOLATED VEGETATED WETLAND. A freshwater wetland, of at least 1,000
square feet in area that does not border on creeks, rivers, streams, ponds or
lakes. The types of ISOLATED VEGETATED WETLANDS may include wet meadows,
marshes, swamps and bogs. In addition to the minimum size requirement, ISOLATED
VEGETATED WETLANDS must also meet the definition of Bordering Vegetated
Wetlands (310 CMR 10.55(2)) with the exception that these wetlands do not
border any creeks, rivers, streams, ponds, lakes or other water bodies. The
boundaries of ISOLATED VEGETATED WETLANDS are the same as those for Bordering
Vegetated Wetlands as defined in 310 CMR 10.55(2)(c).
      LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING OR INUNDATION. The land within the estimated
maximum lateral extent of flood water which will result from the statistical 1%
annual chance storm. Said boundary shall be determined by reference to the most
recently available flood profile data prepared for the city within which the
work is proposed under the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). Where
NFIP data are unavailable or deemed by the Commission to be outdated,
inaccurate or not reflecting current or reasonably anticipated conditions, the
boundary of said land shall be based on the maximum lateral extent of
floodwater which has been observed or recorded, or other evidence presented and
considered by the Commission. The Commission shall give special consideration
to the best available data provided by the city and the commonwealth on
expected conditions due to climate change. Said land shall also include
isolated areas which frequently or seasonably hold standing water to a volume
of at least ¼ acre-feet and to an average depth of at least 6 inches; such
areas may or may not be characterized by wetland vegetation or soil
characteristics.
      LAND UNDER OCEANS AND ESTUARIES. Land extending from the mean low water
line seaward to the boundary of the municipality’s jurisdiction and includes
land under estuaries.
      LAND UNDER WATERBODIES AND WATERWAYS. The land beneath any creek, river,
stream, pond or lake.
      LOT. An area of land in one ownership, with definite boundaries. When an
area of land is comprised of more than one lot, the lots share a common
boundary and are owned or controlled by the same entity or individual(s), and
the lots combined are used for the same purpose or enterprise, the Commission
may consider the lots as a single merged lot for the purposes of applying
provisions of this Section.
      MARSH. See definition for Freshwater Wetlands.
      NOTICE OF INTENT. The written notice filed by any person intending to
remove, fill, dredge, build upon, degrade, discharge into or otherwise alter an
area subject to protection under the commonwealth’s Wetlands Protection Act,
M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40, or the ordinance, or both.
      ORDINANCE. This Section of the Boston Municipal Code.
      PERMIT. The document issued by the Conservation Commission pursuant to
this Section which allows work in accordance with conditions set by the
Commission in the resource areas protected by this Section.
      PERMIT DENIAL. The document issued by the Conservation Commission
pursuant to the ordinance which disallows proposed work.
      PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, associations, partnerships,
corporations, business organizations, trust, estate, the commonwealth or
political subdivision thereof, any public or quasi-public corporation or body
or any other legal entity, including the city or its legal representatives,
Agents, successors or assigns.
      PLANS. Such data, maps, engineering drawings, calculations,
specifications, schedules and other materials, if any, deemed necessary by the
Conservation Commission regarding the site and/or proposed work, current
conditions and projected impacts of climate change on the resource areas and
their functions, to determine the applicability of the ordinance or to
determine the impact of the proposed work upon the resource area values
identified in the ordinance.
      POND. Any open body of fresh water, of a minimum of 5,000 square feet in
size, meeting the definition of 310 CMR 10.04.
      PREVENTION OF POLLUTION. The prevention or reduction of chemicals
(including without limitation nutrients, hydrocarbons, solvents, metals,
vapors) determined to cause harm to humans, plants or animals via exposure to
any media (e.g., air, water, soil, sediment).
      PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY. Any source or volume of surface or groundwater
demonstrated to be in any private use or shown to have potential for private
use for domestic purposes.
      PROJECT LOCUS. The lot on which an applicant proposes to perform an
activity subject to regulation under the ordinance.
      PROJECT SITE. The area within the project locus that comprises the limit
of work for activities, including, but not limited to, the dredging,
excavating, filling, grading, the erection, reconstruction or expansion of a
building or structure; the driving of pilings; the construction or improvement
of roads or other ways; and the installation of drainage, stormwater treatment,
environmentally sensitive site design practices, sewage and water systems.
      PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE. The protection of any plant or animal species,
including, but not limited to, those listed as endangered, threatened or
special concern or on the Watch List by the commonwealth’s Natural Heritage
Program; listed as Federally Endangered or Federally Threatened by the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service; deemed locally threatened, in writing, by the
Conservation Commission. PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE for the purposes of this
Section means protection of natural habitat and the capacity of any resource
area to adequately provide food, breeding habitat, shelter or escape cover, for
species falling within the definition of wildlife set forth in the ordinance.
      REQUEST FOR DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY. A written request made by any
person to the Conservation Commission for a determination as to whether a site
or work thereon is subject to the ordinance.
      RESILIENCE. The ability to minimize the negative impacts of climate
change and other natural hazards; to build capacity of a resource area to
minimize negative impacts of climate change.
      RESOURCE AREA. Each area subject to protection under the ordinance and
which is listed in the ordinance.
      RESOURCE AREA ENHANCEMENT. Removal or management of invasive species;
removal of debris, garbage or trash; restoration and/or stabilization of bank
or other resource area; planting or management of non-invasive species of
vegetation; prevention of the generation of stormwater and non-point source
pollution by reducing impervious surfaces; minimizing disturbance; protecting
natural features and processes; enhancing wildlife habitat; or other techniques
that advance the Resource Area Values of this Section as the Commission may,
from time to time, see fit to define.
      RIVER. Any natural flowing body of water that empties to any ocean, lake,
pond, reservoir, stream or other river.
      RIVERFRONT AREA. The area of land between the mean annual high water line
and a parallel line measured 25 feet horizontally landward of the mean annual
high water line of any river, stream, brook or creek, except for areas the
Commission may designate as extended riverfront areas, in which the RIVERFRONT
AREA may be extended up to 200 feet.
      SALT MARSH. A coastal wetland that extends landward up to the highest
high tide line, that is the highest spring tide of the year and is
characterized by plants that are well adapted to, or prefer living in, saline
soils. A SALT MARSH may contain tidal creeks, ditches and pools.
      SEA LEVEL RISE (“SLR”). The rise in sea level over time.
      STORM DAMAGE PREVENTION. The prevention of damage caused by water from
storms, as currently occurs and is predicted by best available data to occur
from the impacts of climate change, including, but not limited to, erosion and
sedimentation, damage to vegetation, property or buildings or damage caused by
flooding, waterborne debris or waterborne ice.
      STREAM. A body of running water, including brooks and creeks, which moves
in a definite channel in the ground due to hydraulic gradient, and includes
streamlets and rivulets. A portion of a STREAM may flow through a culvert or
beneath a bridge. Such a body of running water which does not flow throughout
the year (i.e., which is intermittent) is a STREAM.
      SWAMP. See definition for Freshwater Wetlands.
      TIDAL FLAT. Coastal wetlands that form in intertidal areas where
sediments have been deposited by tides or rivers.
      VERNAL POOL. 
         (a)   In addition to the areas so defined in the regulations under the
Wetlands Protection Act, any confined basin or depression not occurring in
existing lawns, gardens, landscaped areas or driveways which, at least in most
years, holds water for a minimum of two continuous months during the spring
and/or summer, contains at least 200 cubic feet of water at some time during
most years, is free of adult predatory fish populations and provides breeding
and rearing habitat functions for amphibian, reptile or other VERNAL POOL
community species, regardless of whether the site has been certified by the
commonwealth’s Division of Fisheries and Wildlife.
         (b)   The boundary of the resource area for VERNAL POOLS shall be the
mean annual high-water line defining the depression, or the maximum observed or
recorded water level in a topographic depression. The presumption that any
seasonal basin functions as a VERNAL POOL shall prevail through a minimum of
one spring/summer breeding season for the purpose of documenting the occurrence
or lack of occurrence of breeding activity of vernal pool species. The buffer
zone for VERNAL POOLS shall extend 100 feet from the highest extent of
flooding.
      WATERFRONT AREA. The portion of the buffer zone which extends 25 feet
horizontally from the edge of the following wetland resource areas:
         (a)   Any coastal beach, dune, bank, tidal flats, rocky intertidal
shores, salt marshes or land containing shellfish; or
         (b)   Any inland bank, lake, pond, intermittent stream, brook, creek
or riverfront area.
      WET MEADOW. See definition for Freshwater Wetlands.
      WETLAND PLANTS. Any plant listed in the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service “National List of Plant Species That Occur in Wetlands: Massachusetts
1988” and condensed by the commonwealth’s Department of Environmental
Protection, Division of Wetlands and Waterways, April 1995, having an indicator
category of obligate wetland (“OBL”), facultative wetland (“FACW”) or
facultative (“FAC”).
      WITHIN. See definition for In.
      WILDLIFE. Any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, arthropod
or other vertebrate or invertebrate, including species which are officially
listed in 321 CMR 8.00: Endangered Wildlife and Wild Plants as endangered,
threatened or of special concern.
      WILDLIFE HABITAT. The area being used by or necessary to provide breeding
or nesting habitat, shelter, food and water for any animal species.
      WORK. See definition for Activity.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. 
      (1)   Except as permitted by the Conservation Commission no person shall
commence or continue to remove; fill; dredge; build upon, over or under;
degrade; discharge into; or otherwise alter or pose a significant threat to
alter the following resource areas:
         (a)   Any freshwater or coastal wetlands, marshes, wet meadows, bogs,
swamps, vernal pools, springs, banks, reservoirs, streams, brooks, creeks,
rivers, lakes, ponds of any size, beaches, dunes, estuaries, flats, fens, the
ocean and lands under water bodies;
         (b)   Lands adjoining these resource areas out to a distance of 100
feet, known as the buffer zone and excluding land subject to coastal storm
flowage and the coastal flood resilience zone;
         (c)   Riparian lands adjoining rivers, streams, brooks and creeks,
whether perennial or intermittent out to a distance of 25 feet, known as the
riverfront area; provided that the Conservation Commission in its regulations
may include a separate designation for areas identified as an “extended
riverfront area”, in which the riverfront area may be extended up to 200 feet;
         (d)   Lands adjoining salt marsh out to a distance of 100 feet;
         (e)   Lands subject to flooding or inundation by groundwater or
surface water;
         (f)   Lands subject to tidal action, coastal storm flowage or
flooding;
         (g)   The Coastal Flood Resilience Zone, as established by the
Commission; and
         (h)   The Inland Flood Resilience Zone as established by the
Commission.
      (2)   Any activity proposed or undertaken which is not set forth above
but which activity the Conservation Commission finds will alter an area subject
to the ordinance will require the filing of a notice of intent.
      (3)   The buffer zone is presumed important to the protection of the
resource areas because activities undertaken in close proximity to resource
areas have a reasonable probability of adverse impact upon the wetland or other
resource, either immediately, as a consequence of construction, or over time,
as a consequence of daily operation or existence of the activities. These
adverse impacts from construction and use can include without limitation
erosion, siltation, loss of groundwater recharge, degraded water quality, loss
of wildlife habitat, degradation of wetland plant habitat, alteration of
hydrology, soil contamination and proliferation of invasive plants.
      (4)   The Commission therefore may require that any person filing an
application (hereinafter, the applicant) restore or maintain a strip of
continuous, undisturbed or restored vegetative cover or waterfront public
access throughout the waterfront area, unless the Commission determines, based
on adequate evidence, that the area or part of it may be altered without harm
to the values of the resource areas protected by the ordinance. Such disturbed
areas must be minimized to the greatest extent possible.
      (5)   The above-named resources are collectively known as the “resource
areas protected by the ordinance” or “resource areas”. Said resource areas
shall be protected whether or not they border surface waters.
   (D)   Exemptions. 
      (1)   The applications and permits required by this Section may not be
required for maintaining, repairing or replacing, but not substantially
changing or enlarging, an existing and lawfully located structure or facility
used in the service of the public to provide electric, gas, water, telephone,
telegraph or other telecommunication services; provided that written notice has
been given to the Conservation Commission prior to commencement of work; the
structure or facility will not be, as determined by the Commission or its
Agent, substantially changed or enlarged; and the work conforms to any
performance standards and design specifications in regulations adopted by the
Commission to the extent practicable as determined by the Commission.
      (2)   The following exemptions shall apply and no application or permit
is required under this Section for:
         (a)   Normal maintenance or improvement of land in agricultural and
aquacultural use as defined by the Wetlands Protection Act regulations at 310
CMR 10.04;
         (b)   Minor activities, identified in 310 CMR 10.02(2)(b)2 proposed or
undertaken within the buffer zone to an area subject to protection under this
Section. In the judgment of the Commission, any activity that will alter a
resource area subject to this Section is subject to regulation and requires the
filing of a notice of intent; and
         (c)   Emergency projects for the protection of the health and safety
of the public; provided that the work is to be performed by or has been ordered
to be performed by an Agency of the commonwealth or a political subdivision
thereof; provided that advance notice, oral or written, has been given to the
Commission prior to commencement of work; provided that the Commission or its
Agent certifies the work as an emergency project; provided that the work is
performed only for the time and place certified by the Commission for the
limited purposes necessary to abate the emergency; and provided that within 21
days of commencement of an emergency project a permit application shall be
filed with the Commission for review as provided by this Section. Upon failure
to meet these and other requirements of the Commission, the Commission may,
after notice and a public hearing, revoke or modify an emergency project
approval and order restoration and mitigation measures.
   (E)   Applications and fees.
      (1)   Application and applicability. 
         (a)   No one intending to conduct any of the above-named activities
may commence such activity within the jurisdiction of this Section without an
applicant filing a written notice of intent and without an applicant receiving
an order of conditions and provided all appeal periods have elapsed. Such
notice shall be sent by certified mail or hand delivered to the Conservation
Commission, including all plans as may be necessary to describe the proposed
activity and its effect on the environment. The Commission may make provision
for electronic delivery of notice and of required materials. The Conservation
Commission may require information in addition to the plans and specifications
required to be filed by an applicant under M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40, in
order to fulfill the requirements of this Section. Such information shall take
into consideration the effect that projected sea level rise, changes in storm
intensity and frequency and other consequences of climate change may have on
resource areas and the activities proposed in the permit application. The
applicant shall, to the extent applicable as determined solely by the
Commission, integrate climate resilience and adaptation considerations into
their project. No application shall be deemed complete or timely without the
submission of all application forms, plans and all requested additional
materials. No activities shall commence without receiving a permit issued
pursuant to this Section.
         (b)   Any person desiring to know whether or not a proposed activity
or an area is subject to this Section may in writing request a determination
from the Commission. Such a request filed under the ordinance shall include
information, plans and resource area delineations as deemed necessary by the
Commission. The Conservation Commission shall make a determination as to
whether or not this Section applies to a specific situation prior to the filing
of a written notice of intent under the provisions hereof, within 21 days of
the receipt of a written request for determination of applicability sent by
certified mail or hand delivered from any person desiring such determination.
         (c)   The Conservation Commission may by regulation establish
procedures for administrative review of specified activities for designated
areas within Coastal Flood Resilience Zone or Inland Flood Resilience Zone
consistent with the protections provided by this Section.
      (2)   Filing fee. At the time of an application, the applicant shall pay
a filing fee specified in regulations of the Commission. The fee is in addition
to that required by the Wetlands Protection Act (M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section
40) and regulations (310 CMR 10.00). No application shall be deemed complete or
timely without the payment of all required fees.
      (3)   Consultant review. 
         (a)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 53G and regulations
promulgated by the Commission, the Commission may impose reasonable fees upon
applicants for the purpose of securing outside consultants including engineers,
wetlands scientists, wildlife biologists or other experts in order to aid in
the review of proposed projects. Such funds shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer who shall create a revolving fund specifically for this purpose.
Additional consultant fees may be requested where the requisite review is more
expensive than originally calculated or where new information requires
additional consultant services.
         (b)   In such instances the Commission shall notify in writing the
applicant of this need and the estimated costs to be borne by the applicant,
request payment of that fee and provide the opportunity for the application to
be amended or withdrawn. Notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date
the Commission mails or hand delivers said notification. The applicant may
withdraw the application or request within five business days of the date
notice is given without incurring any costs or expenses.
         (c)   Consultants must meet the minimum qualifications of: an
educational degree in or related to the field at issue; or three or more years
of practice in the field at issue or a related field. Such consultants shall
work for and represent the interests of the Commission. The Commission shall
return any unused portion of the consultant fee to the applicant unless the
Commission decides at a public meeting that other further or additional or
different services of the consultant are necessary to make an objective
decision.
         (d)   The Commission may waive all application and consultant review
fees for any permit application or notice filed by the city or another
government Agency. The Commission may waive all application and consultant
review fees for any permit application or notice filed upon determination by
the Commission that the proposed work will further the Resource Area Values of
this Section.
      (4)   Additional fees. The Conservation Commission may adopt such
additional fees as it may determine necessary to protect the Resource Area
Values of this Section.
   (F)   Notice and hearings.
      (1)   The Commission may conduct a public hearing on any request for
determination of applicability, an abbreviated notice of resource area
delineation or notice of intent and shall conduct a public hearing on any
permit application. The Commission in an appropriate case may combine its
hearing under this Section with the hearing conducted under the Act and
regulations.
      (2)   The Commission shall commence a public hearing within 21 days from
receipt of a completed request, notice or permit application unless an
extension is authorized in writing by the applicant. The Commission shall have
authority to continue the hearing to a specific date announced at the hearing,
for reasons stated at the hearing, which may include the need for additional
information from the applicant or others as deemed necessary by the Commission
in its discretion.
      (3)   Notice, including the date, time, place and subject of any such
hearing shall be given at least five business days prior to the hearing, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality at the expense of the
applicant, and on the Commission’s internet website, as well as by any other
method determined by the Commission to provide adequate notice to parties in
interest. Notices shall be publicized, and hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with the Open Meeting Law, being M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Sections 18—25.
      (4)   Any person filing a request, notice, permit or other application
with the Conservation Commission at the same time shall give written notice
thereof, by certified mail (return receipt requested) or hand delivered, or by
certificates of mailing to all abutters at their mailing addresses shown on the
most recent applicable tax list of the assessors, including owners of land
directly opposite on any public or private street or way, and abutters to the
abutters within 300 feet of the project property line including any in another
municipality or across a body of water. A copy shall be provided in the same
manner to the Commission of the adjoining municipality, if the request, notice,
permit or application pertains to property within 300 feet of that
municipality. The notice shall state a brief description of the project or
other proposal and the date of any Commission hearing or meeting date if known.
The notice to abutters also shall include a copy of the application or request,
with plans, or shall state where copies may be examined and obtained by
abutters. An affidavit of the person providing such notice, with a copy of the
notice mailed or delivered, shall be filed with the Commission. When a person
requesting a determination is other than the owner, the request, the notice of
the hearing and the determination itself shall be sent by the Commission to the
owner as well as to the person making the request.
      (5)   Within 21 days of closing the public hearing, the Conservation
Commission shall either:
         (a)   Determine the proposed activity is not significant to any of the
Resource Area Values identified by the ordinance; or
         (b)   Decide that the proposed activity is significant to one or more
of the Resource Area Values identified by the ordinance and shall issue an
order of conditions for the protection of said values.
   (G)   Permits.
      (1)   (a)   Within 21 days of the close of the hearing the Commission
shall issue or deny a permit for the activities requested upon determining that
the activities which are subject to the permit application, or the land and
water uses which will result therefrom, are likely to have a significant
individual or cumulative effect on the Resource Area Values protected by this
Section. The Commission shall consider the extent to which the applicant
intends to avoid, minimize and mitigate any impact from activities subject to
permitting. The applicant shall, to the extent applicable as determined solely
by the Commission, integrate climate resilience and adaptation considerations
into their project.
         (b)   In evaluating the project and prior to issuing any permit, the
Commission shall consider cumulative loss, degradation, isolation and
replacement or replication of such protected resource areas at the project
site, resulting from past activities, whether by the applicant or any prior
property owner and whether permitted, unpermitted or exempt. The Commission
shall also consider individual and cumulative adverse impacts on protected
resources arising from reasonably foreseeable future activities when evaluating
a project application.
         (c)   The Conservation Commission shall explicitly consider climate
change resilience and impacts in the issuance or denial of any permit through
measurement of potential adverse impacts to resource areas for the protection
of resource areas both as they currently exist and as are reasonably expected
to exist based on the best available data on the projected impacts of climate
change.
      (2)   The Commission shall enact guidelines, performance standards and
implementing regulations establishing how climate change resilience will be
considered during project review and ensuring consistency with other city
regulations.
      (3)   Nothing in this Section shall be intended to prevent beneficial
projects whose primary purpose is protection of resource areas and reduction of
risk from coastal flooding, inland flooding, extreme weather, sea level rise
and other adverse impacts of climate change. The Commission may enact
guidelines, performance standards and implementing regulations specific to
beneficial projects identified through the Climate Ready Boston process or
equivalent or successor initiatives to advance and expedite such beneficial
projects. The Conservation Commission may issue an order of conditions for
district scale flood resiliency and flood protection projects where such
projects require fill, including coastal fill above and seaward of existing
seawalls only when necessary for flood protection; provided that the Commission
finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the project will protect and
improve coastal, riparian or aquatic habit over current and projected
conditions, including, but not limited to, change from vertical seawall to
intertidal habitat.
      (4)   The Conservation Commission is authorized to approve a permit when
it determines by findings supported by substantial evidence that the proposed
work meets all applicable performance standards and procedures under this
Section or when work can be conditioned to meet all such performance standards,
and where it determines by findings supported by substantial evidence that the
work will not result in significant or cumulative adverse effects upon wetland
Resource Area Values protected by this Section. If it issues a permit, the
Commission may impose conditions that the Commission determines necessary or
desirable to protect said Resource Area Values, and all activities shall be
conducted in accordance with those conditions.
      (5)   The Conservation Commission is empowered to deny permission for any
activity that would remove, fill, dredge, build upon, degrade, discharge into
or otherwise alter subject lands within its jurisdiction if, in its judgment,
such denial is necessary to preserve environmental quality of either or both
the subject lands and contiguous lands. The Conservation Commission is further
empowered to deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements of this
Section; for failure to submit necessary information and plans requested by the
Conservation Commission; for failure to meet the design specifications,
performance standards and other requirements in regulations of the Conservation
Commission; for failure to avoid or prevent significant or cumulative effects
upon the Resource Area Values protected by this Section; or where no conditions
are adequate to protect those values, in its sole discretion as the issuing
authority.
      (6)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, each permit,
application, notice and hearing will be considered on its own merits. Due
consideration shall be given to possible effects of the proposal on all values
to be protected under this Section. Any order of conditions or denial issued
under this Section may differ from any such order or denial issued by the
Conservation Commission under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40.
      (7)   In reviewing activities within the buffer zone, the Commission
shall presume the buffer zone is important to the protection of other resource
areas because activities undertaken in close proximity have a reasonable
probability of adverse impact, either immediately, as a consequence of
construction, or over time, as a consequence of daily operation or existence of
the activities. These adverse impacts from construction and use can include,
without limitation, erosion, siltation, loss of groundwater recharge, poor
water quality, loss of wildlife habitat, degradation of wetland plant habitat,
alteration of hydrology and proliferation of invasive plants. The Commission
may establish, in its regulations, design specifications, performance standards
and other measures and safeguards, including setbacks, and other work limits
for protection of such lands, including without limitation strips of
continuous, undisturbed vegetative cover, unless the Commission determines,
based on adequate evidence, that the buffer zone or part of it may be altered
without harm to the values protected by the ordinance.
      (8)   In reviewing activities within the riverfront area, the Commission
shall presume the riverfront area is important to all the Resource Area Values
unless demonstrated otherwise, and no permit issued hereunder shall permit any
activities unless the Commission finds by preponderance of the evidence that
there is no practicable alternative to the proposed project with less adverse
effects, and that such activities, including proposed mitigation measures, will
have no significant adverse impact on the areas or values protected by this
Section. The Commission shall regard as practicable an alternative which is
reasonably available and capable of being done after taking into consideration
the proposed property use, overall project purpose (e.g., residential,
institutional, commercial or industrial), logistics, existing technology and
other factors at its discretion. The Commission will also consider if the
project proposes ecological enhancement of the riverfront area. The Commission
may separately designate areas of the city, where in its discretion and by a
preponderance of evidence that such areas are significant for the protection of
the Resource Area Values protected by the ordinance, the riverfront area can be
extended up to a distance of 200 feet.
      (9)   The adjacent areas to Land Subject to Coastal Storm Flowage
(“LSCSF”), known as the Coastal Flood Resilience Zone (“CFRZ”), will become, or
already may be part of, the 100-year floodplain due to sea level rise and
changes in storm intensity or frequency. Because of this, activities undertaken
within LSCSF and CFRZ have a reasonable probability of adverse impacts,
including, without limitation, erosion, poor water quality, pollution of
stormwater runoff and lack of flood control. The Commission may establish, in
its regulations, the extent of the CFRZ, performance standards and other
measures and safeguards for the protection of such resource area values within
LSCSF and the CFRZ for the useful life of the project may vary within the CFRZ
in accordance with, among other factors, the time when such areas are likely to
become part of the floodplain. To the maximum extent possible, as determined by
the Commission the CFRZ shall be consistent with other climate change planning
documents used by other Offices and Agencies of the city. Furthermore, the
Commission shall encourage salt marsh restoration and nourishment, land use
that allows for the natural migration of salt marsh due to SLR, protection of
potential salt marsh transitional areas, and may establish, in its regulations,
design specifications, performance standards and other measures and safeguards,
to protect the values protected by the ordinance.
      (10)   The inland areas known as the Inland Flood Resilience Zone
(“IFRZ”), will become, or already may be experiencing flooding as the
intensity, duration or frequency of precipitation events increase. Because of
this, activities undertaken within the IFRZ have a reasonable probability of
adverse impacts, including, without limitation, erosion, poor water quality,
pollution of stormwater runoff and lack of flood control. The Commission may
establish regulations the extent of the IFRZ. Performance standards and other
measures and safeguards for protection of such resource area values within the
BLSF and the IFRZ for the useful life of the project may vary within the IFRZ
in accordance with, among other factors, the time when such areas are likely to
become part of the floodplain. To the maximum extent possible, as determined by
the Commission the IFRZ shall be consistent with other climate change planning
documents used by other Offices and Agencies of the city.
      (11)   To prevent resource area loss, the Commission shall require
applicants to avoid alteration wherever feasible; to minimize alteration; and,
where alteration is unavoidable and has been minimized, to provide mitigation
as determined by the Commission. The Commission may authorize or require
replication of wetlands as a form of mitigation, but only with specific plans,
professional design, proper safeguards, adequate security and professional
monitoring and reporting to assure success, because of the statistical high
probability of failure of such replication. The Commission may require an
inventory and analysis of hydrology, vegetation, wildlife and wildlife habitat
of the project area, to be paid for by the applicant, whenever it deems
appropriate, regardless of the type of resource area or the amount or type of
alteration proposed. The decision shall be based upon the Commission’s
determination of the importance of the habitat area considering (but not
limited to) such factors as proximity to other areas suitable for wildlife,
importance of wildlife corridors in the area, the resource significance of the
project area or actual or expected presence of rare and/or unique plant or
animal species in the area. The work shall be performed by an individual who
meets the qualifications set out in the wildlife habitat Section of the
Wetlands Protection Act Regulations (310 CMR 10.60).
      (12)   Any areas within the city which have been designated as areas of
critical environmental concern by the Secretary of Energy and Environmental
Affairs of the commonwealth, are so designated due to the particularly unique
environmental factors that affect such areas and that highlight the unique
importance of each area so designated. As a result of such designation, it is
incumbent upon the Commission to be even more diligent in its review of
projects proposed within or bordering such areas. The highest standards of
scrutiny as to the impact of any proposal are required and shall be exercised
by the Commission. Close scrutiny shall be given by the Commission to any
proposals involving an application of new pavement or newly installed other
impervious materials within any area less than 100 feet from bordering
vegetated wetland, bank, beach and meadow.
      (13)   The Conservation Commission may recommend to the Mayor and Boston
City Council that the City separately designate areas of environmental concern
according to criteria and guidelines established by the Commission and distinct
from those used by the Secretary of Environmental Affairs of the commonwealth.
      (14)   The Commission shall presume that all areas meeting the definition
of vernal pool, including the adjacent area known as “vernal pool habitat”,
perform essential habitat functions. This presumption may be overcome only by
the presentation of credible evidence which, in the judgment of the Commission,
by a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates that the basin or depression or
surrounding area does not provide essential habitat functions. Any formal
evaluation should be performed by an individual who at least meets the
qualifications under the wildlife habitat Section of the Wetlands Protection
Act Regulations (310 CMR 10.60).
      (15)   The Commission may require that an applicant submit a resources
management plan to the Commission if the Commission determines such a plan is
required to meet the goals and standards of this Section and the order of
conditions of the permit. A resources management plan shall adequately describe
measures at the site intended to protect and enhance site resources and to
eliminate, mitigate or minimize project impacts. The Commission may require
that the resources management plan include a detailed budget and identify the
entity legally responsible for implementing the plan.
      (16)   Activities and their ancillary uses in FEMA velocity zones which
result in alterations to vegetative cover, interruptions in the supply of
sediment to other wetland resources or changes to the form or volume of a dune
or beach that will have an adverse effect on said landform’s ability to provide
storm damage prevention and flood control are, therefore, prohibited. These
activities include, but are not limited to, construction of: foundations other
than open pilings or columns; new or proposed expansions of roads, driveways or
parking lots, or impermeable paving for existing unpaved roads, driveways or
parking lots; new or proposed expansions of coastal engineering structure.
      (17)   The permit shall be valid for three years from the date of its
issuance.
      (18)   The Conservation Commission may extend a permit for a period of up
to an additional three-year period from date of issuance. The request for an
extension shall be made to the Conservation Commission at least 21 days prior
to the expiration of the permit. The Commission shall hold a public hearing in
accordance with the ordinance and its regulations within 21 days of receipt of
said request. Should said public hearing be continued past the date of the
expiration of the permit, the expiration date shall be stayed to the date on
which the Commission votes on whether to extend the permit.
      (19)   The order of conditions shall be recorded in the County Registry
of Deeds or Registry District of the Land Court, where appropriate, prior to
the commencement of any of the proposed activities regulated by the order of
conditions. No work shall commence until proof of recording is provided to the
Commission. If work is undertaken without the applicant first recording the
permit, the Conservation Commission may issue an enforcement order.
      (20)   The Commission may revoke a permit, order, determination or
decision issued under the ordinance, but only for violation of this Section and
only after notice of violation to the permittee and abutters, and after a
properly noticed public hearing. The Commission may establish written policies
and procedures with respect to permit revocation, including provision for
sufficient written warning and opportunity to cure.
      (21)   Amendments to permits, orders and determinations shall be handled
in the manner set out in the Wetlands Protection Act regulations and policies
thereunder.
   (H)   Regulations. 
      (1)   After public notice and public hearing, the Conservation Commission
shall promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this
Section, effective when voted and filed with the City Clerk. Failure by the
Commission to promulgate such rules and regulations or a legal declaration of
their invalidity by a court of law shall not act to suspend or invalidate the
effect of this Section. At a minimum these regulations shall reiterate the
terms defined in this Section, define additional terms not inconsistent with
the ordinance, impose filing fees, set forth a policy for treatment of
qualifying work in the flood resilience zones, take into account climate
resilience, specify resource areas subject to Commission jurisdiction as
provided for in the ordinance including the waterfront area, coastal flood
resilience zone and inland flood resilience zone, and prescribe performance
standards for activities in any or all resource areas and their buffer zones.
      (2)   The Commission may amend the rules and regulations after public
notice and public hearing.
      (3)   For all proposed reference maps delineating resource areas, the
Commission shall conduct a public rule-making process, including, but not
limited to, posted notice of a hearing on the proposed reference map or maps,
posting of the proposed reference maps, written notice of posting to parties
requesting such notice, a minimum 30-day comment period, a written “response to
comments” posted not less than seven days before any hearing and a properly
noticed public hearing.
      (4)   Unless otherwise stated in this Section or in the rules and
regulations promulgated under this Section, the definitions, procedures and
performance standards of the Act and Regulations as most recently promulgated
shall apply.
   (I)   Security. As part of a permit issued under this Section, in addition
to any security required by any other municipal or commonwealth Board, Agency
or Official, the Conservation Commission may require that the performance and
observance of the conditions imposed thereunder (including conditions requiring
mitigation work) be secured wholly or in part by any combination of the methods
described below:
      (1)   By a proper bond, deposit of money or negotiable securities under a
written third-party escrow arrangement, or other undertaking of financial
responsibility sufficient in the opinion of the Commission, to be released in
whole or in part upon issuance of a certificate of compliance for work
performed pursuant to the permit;
      (2)   By accepting a conservation restriction, easement or other covenant
enforceable in a court of law, executed and duly recorded by the owner of
record, running with the land to the benefit of this municipality whereby the
permit conditions shall be performed and observed before any lot may be
conveyed other than by mortgage deed; and
      (3)   By any other method the Commission determines effective by
preponderance of the evidence to achieve the purposes and intent of this
Section.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   No person shall remove, fill, dredge, build upon, degrade or
otherwise alter resource areas protected by this Section, or cause, suffer or
allow such activity, or leave in place unauthorized fill, or otherwise fail to
restore illegally altered land to its original condition, or fail to comply
with a permit or an enforcement order issued pursuant to this Section.
      (2)   The Conservation Commission, its Agents, Officers and employees
shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of
performing their duties under this Section and may make or cause to be made
such examinations, surveys or sampling as the Commission deems necessary,
subject to the constitutions and laws of the United States and the
commonwealth.
      (3)   The Commission shall have authority to enforce this Section, its
regulations and permits issued thereunder by letters, phone calls and
electronic communication, violation notices, fines, noncriminal citations under
M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 2 ID and civil and criminal court actions. Any
person who violates the provisions of this Section may be ordered to restore
the property to its original condition and take other action deemed necessary
to remedy such violations.
      (4)   The Commission shall have the authority to set fine amounts and
levy fines for violations under this Section and under the Wetlands Protection
Act.
      (5)   Upon request of the Commission, the Corporation Counsel shall take
legal action for enforcement under civil law. Upon request of the Commission,
the Chief of Police shall take legal action for enforcement under criminal law.
      (6)   Municipal boards and Officers, including any Police Officer or
other Officer having Police powers, shall have authority to assist the
Commission in enforcement.
      (7)   Any person who violates any provision of this Section, or
regulations, permits or administrative orders issued thereunder, shall be
punished by a fine established by the Commission. Each day or portion thereof
during which a violation continues, or unauthorized fill or other alteration
remains in place, shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision of
the ordinance, regulations, permits or administrative orders violated shall
constitute a separate offense. Each resource area, buffer zone or portion
thereof in which a violation continues, or unauthorized fill or other
alteration remains in place, shall constitute a separate offense, and each
provision of the ordinance, regulations, permits or administrative orders
violated shall constitute a separate offense
      (8)   As an alternative to criminal prosecution in a specific case, the
Commission may issue citations with specific penalties pursuant to the non-
criminal disposition procedure set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D.
   (K)   Burden of proof. The applicant for a permit shall have the burden of
proving by a preponderance of evidence that the work proposed in the permit
application will not have unacceptable significant or cumulative adverse effect
upon the Resource Area Values protected by this Section. Failure to provide
adequate evidence to the Conservation Commission supporting this burden shall
be sufficient cause for the Commission to deny a permit or grant a permit with
conditions.
   (L)   Appeals. A decision of the Conservation Commission shall be reviewable
in the Superior Court in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 249, Section 4.
   (M)   Relation to the Wetlands Protection Act and other statutes. This
Section is adopted under the Home Rule Amendment of the commonwealth’s
Constitution, being its Article LXXXIX, and the Home Rule statutes, being
M.G.L. Chapter 43B, independent of the Wetlands Protection Act (M.G.L. Chapter
131, Section 40) and regulations (310 CMR 10.00) thereunder, and other federal,
commonwealth and local environmental statutes. Activities that may not require
review or permitting under the Wetlands Protection Act, the Rivers Protection
Act, being Chapter 258 of the Acts of 1996, or other federal, commonwealth or
local statutes are not assumed to be exempt from this Section. It is the
intention of this Section that the purposes, jurisdiction, authority,
exemptions, regulations, specifications, standards and other requirements shall
be interpreted and administered as stricter than those under the Wetlands
Protection Act and regulations.
   (N)   Climate change resilience. The applicant shall, to the extent
applicable as determined by the Commission, integrate climate change and
adaptation planning considerations into their project to promote climate
resilience to protect and promote Resource Area Values and functions into the
future. These considerations include but are not limited to: sea level rise,
increased heat waves, extreme precipitation events, stormwater runoff, changing
precipitation patterns and changes in coastal and stormwater flooding.
   (O)   Stormwater management. 
      (1)   Work or activity specified in a request for determination of
applicability or an application for a permit and subject to the ordinance shall
meet, at a minimum, the best management practices for stormwater management as
set forth in the Stormwater Management Standards of the commonwealth’s
Department of Environmental Protection and any separate standards and
guidelines prepared by the city and the Boston Water and Sewer Commission.
      (2)   The Commission may require feasible stormwater measures consistent
with the resource protection, climate change resiliency and all other
applicable provisions of the ordinance and as specified in regulations and
performance standards.
   (P)   Climate equity and environmental justice. The Commission may issue
regulations and guidelines addressing climate equity and environmental justice
for inclusion within the climate change resilience planning considerations,
consistent with the intent and provisions of this Section. Commission shall
issue regulations and guidelines only after public notice, public hearing and
direct engagement with residents and neighborhoods that may be adversely
affected by disparate impacts of climate change.
   (Q)   Severability. The invalidity of any Section or provision of this
Section shall not invalidate any other Section or provision thereof, nor shall
it invalidate any permit, approval or determination which previously has been
issued.
   (R)   Effective date and reporting. All of these provisions and requirements
set forth in this Section shall take effect immediately upon passage and the
Commission shall promulgate implementing regulations to fully effectuate this
Section. Furthermore, the Commission will provide updates on its implementation
of such regulations to the Boston City Council at least quarterly.
(CBC 1985 7-1.4; Ord. 2019 c. 8)
7-2   AIR POLLUTION CONTROL COMMISSION.
7-2.1   Appointment; Powers and Duties.
   (A)   There shall be in the Health and Hospitals Departments a Board, known
as the Air Pollution Control Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of
Health and Hospitals, ex officio; the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking, ex
officio; the Environment Commissioner, ex officio; and four members appointed
by the Mayor. Of the four members appointed by the Mayor, at least one member
shall serve for a three-year term. The appointive members shall serve for a
term expiring on the first Monday of January, 1980. As the term of any member
expires, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of
three years. Any vacancy in the Office of an appointive member shall be filled
by the Mayor for the unexpired term. All members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation.
   (B)   The Air Pollution Control Commission shall not be subject to the
supervision or control of the Board of Health and Hospitals or of Commissioner
of Health and Hospitals except as he or she acts as a member of the Commission;
but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Commission shall not communicate
with the Mayor, or make any annual or other report, except through the Board of
Health and Hospitals.
   (C)   The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have full jurisdiction to
regulate and control atmospheric pollution as now or hereafter provided in
M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 31C.
   (D)   The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have jurisdiction to
investigate, control and abate noise from whatever source, and shall also have
power, after due notice and a public hearing, to adopt noise level standards
and to promulgate regulations, including regulations providing that no activity
likely to produce unreasonable noise may be carried on unless a permit therefor
is first obtained from the Commission, which may specify in such permit the
time or times within which, and the method by which, such activity is to be
carried on. The Commission may fix a fee of not less than $10 nor more than
$100 for each permit issued by it.
   (E)   The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have power to require the
production of records and documents relevant to its work and to compel the
attendance and testimony of witnesses before it.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 15 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 50; Ord. 1977 c. 3;
CBC 1985 7-2.1; Ord. 2021 c. 13 § 2)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 31C; Ord. ss 2-7.1; Ord. ss 12-1.1
7-2.2   Building Emissions Reduction and Disclosure.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the intent of this Subsection to reduce the emissions of air
pollutants, including greenhouse gases, from building energy production and
consumption, and thereby to encourage efficient use of energy and water,
develop further investment in building a green economy, including by
encouraging the hiring and training of green jobs, protect public health and
promote equitable access to housing. To do so, the provisions of this
Subsection require the reporting and disclosure of annual energy use,
disclosure of annual water use in all covered buildings and compliance with
emissions requirements in accordance with this article.
      (2)   The Air Pollution Control Commission has enforcement authority
pursuant to, inter alia, Article 89 of the commonwealth’s Constitution; M.G.L.
Chapter 111, Section 31C; M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D; M.G.L. Chapter 40U;
and this Subsection.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE PAYMENT. A per-metric ton payment based on the
average cost per metric ton of CO2e to decarbonize buildings subject to this
Subsection.
      BUILDING. A city building, non-residential building or residential
building as defined in this Subsection or by regulation.
      BUILDING PORTFOLIO. Two or more Buildings, on one or more properties;
provided that:
         (a)   All buildings within the portfolio have the same owner; for this
purpose, a building management company does not constitute an owner; or
         (b)   All buildings within the portfolio are part of an approved
Institutional Master Plan.
      BUILDING USE. 
         (a)   Space type as defined in the Regulations, which refers to the
primary activity for which a given space is utilized, as entered into the
Portfolio Manager; or
         (b)   Other activities as defined in the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager
or by the Regulations as may be updated from time to time.
      CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (“CO2E”). Greenhouse gas emissions, including
carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. CO2e shall be calculated using a
methodology as set forth in the regulations and as may be amended, from time to
time, by the regulations.
      CITY. The City of Boston.
      CITY BUILDING. A building, as it appears in the records of the Boston
Assessing Department, that is owned by the city, or for which the city
regularly pays all of the annual energy bills. CITY BUILDINGS shall include
buildings that are owned or managed by the Boston Housing Authority.
      COMMISSION. The Air Pollution Control Commission.
      COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATION. A not-for-profit organization that is
driven by community residents, that is the majority of the governing body and
staff consists of local residents, the main operating Offices are in the
community of service, priority issue areas are identified and defined by
residents, solutions to address priority issues are developed with residents
and program design, implementation and evaluation components have residents
intimately involved and in leadership positions.
      DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
      ELECTRICAL VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT (“EVSE”). Equipment for the purpose
of transferring electric energy to a battery or other energy storage device in
an electric vehicle, including, but not limited to, electric vehicle charging
stations as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 25A, Section 16.
      EMERGENCY BACKUP GENERATION/BACKUP POWER. A device or mechanism, such as
battery storage, reciprocating internal combustion engine or turbine, that
serves solely as a secondary source of mechanical or electrical power whenever
the primary energy supply is disrupted or discontinued during power outages or
natural disasters that are beyond the control of the owner, occupant or
operator of a building.
      EMISSIONS. The emission of greenhouse gases, measured in units of Carbon
Dioxide Equivalent associated with the generation and transmission of energy
used by a building.
      EMISSIONS FACTOR. CO2e calculated according to regional energy and
greenhouse gas factors as set forth in the regulations, as may be amended from
time to time.
      EMPLOYMENT PLAN. A plan submitted to the Mayor’s Office of Workforce
Development by a building owner establishing training protocols and minimum
employment standards.
      ENERGY. Electricity, heating and cooling from any fuel source including,
but not limited to, natural gas, fuel oil, propane and power used to generate
steam and hot and chilled water, and any other sources of energy that the
Commission may designate.
      ENERGY STAR PORTFOLIO MANAGER OR PORTFOLIO MANAGER. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency’s online tool for reporting and managing
Building Energy data.
      ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT. The City Environment Department.
      ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE POPULATION. 
         (a)   A neighborhood that meets one or more of the following criteria:
            1.   The annual median household income is not more than 65% of the
state-wide annual median household income;
            2.   Minorities comprise 40% or more of the population;
            3.   Twenty-five percent or more of households lack English
language proficiency;
            4.   Minorities comprise 25% or more of the population and the
annual median household income of the municipality in which the neighborhood is
located does not exceed 150% of the commonwealth annual median income; or
            5.   Such other meaning as is adopted or amended by the
commonwealth’s Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, by
commonwealth statute, or defined in the Regulations.
         (b)   In the event of a conflict with the Regulations, the
requirements in the Regulations shall prevail.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA (“GFA”) or AREA. The total number of square feet
measured between the principal exterior surfaces of enclosing fixed walls.
      HARDSHIP COMPLIANCE PLAN. Alternative Emissions reduction targets and/or
timelines for a Building or Building Portfolio.
      INDIVIDUAL COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE. An alternative timeline for complying
with the Emissions Standards outlined in this Subsection, as may be updated by
the Regulations.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. As it appears in the records of the Boston
Assessing Department, either:
         (a)   1.   A building that equals or exceeds 20,000 square feet in
gross building area, and of which 50% or more of the gross building area,
excluding parking, is used for commercial, retail, office, professional,
educational or other non-residential purposes;
            2.   A parcel with a single owner and multiple buildings whose
gross building areas cumulatively equal or exceed 20,000 square feet, and of
which 50% or more of the cumulative gross building area, excluding parking, is
used for commercial, retail, office, professional, educational or other non-
residential purposes. Each such building shall individually comply with the
requirements of this Subsection, including reporting and complying with
emissions standards, unless part of a building portfolio; or
            3.   Any grouping of non-residential buildings designated by the
Review Board as an appropriate reporting unit. Each such building shall
individually comply with the requirements of this Subsection, including
reporting and complying with emissions standards, unless part of a building
portfolio.
         (b)   The term NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING shall not include any building
that is a city building.
      OWNER. 
         (a)   A building’s owner of record; provided that the OWNER may be
deemed to include:
            1.   Multiple OWNERS in common ownership;
            2.   The association or organization of unit OWNERS responsible for
overall management in the case of a condominium; and
            3.   The Board of Directors in the case of a cooperative apartment
corporation.
         (b)   In the case of a building subject to a lease that assigns
maintenance, regulatory compliance and/or capital improvement costs to tenants
with a term of at least 30 years, inclusive of all renewal options, the owner
may designate the lessee as OWNER for purposes of compliance with this
Subsection; such designation must be provided in writing to the Commission as
required by the Regulations.
         (c)   An OWNER may designate an Agent to act on its behalf, including
reporting as required by this Subsection; provided, however, that such
designation:
            1.   Must be provided in writing to the Commission; and
            2.   Does not relieve the OWNER of any compliance obligation under
this Subsection.
      POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT. A contract by which an owner agrees to purchase
electricity from a generating facility over a fixed term of years.
      REGULATIONS. The Air Pollution Control Commission’s Building Emissions
Reduction and Disclosure Regulations.
      RENEWABLE ENERGY CERTIFICATE (“REC”). A certificate representing the
positive environmental attributes associated with the production of one
megawatt hour (“MWh”) of electricity by a renewable energy facility.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. 
         (a)   As it appears in the records of the Boston Assessing Department,
either:
            1.   A building with 15 or more total individual dwelling units
that, together with hallways and other common space serving residents, comprise
more than 50% of the gross building area, excluding parking;
            2.   A parcel with a single owner and multiple buildings that
cumulatively have 15 or more total individual dwelling units or that
cumulatively equal or exceed 20,000 square feet in gross building area. Each
such building shall individually comply with the requirements of this
Subsection, including reporting and complying with emissions standards, unless
part of a building portfolio; or
            3.   Any grouping of residential buildings designated by the Review
Board as an appropriate reporting unit. Each such building shall individually
comply with the requirements of this Subsection, including reporting and
complying with emissions standards, unless part of a building portfolio.
         (b)   The term RESIDENTIAL BUILDING shall not include a city building
or a non-residential building.
      REVIEW BOARD. The Board established pursuant to Section(s) of this
Subsection.
      TENANT. Any tenant, tenant-stockholder of a cooperative apartment
corporation and condominium unit owner.
      THIS SUBSECTION. Refer to Chapter VII, Subsection 7-2.2 of the City of
Boston Code.
      VERIFICATION YEAR. Any year where an owner must report third-party
verified reporting data. VERIFICATION YEARS will be the first year following
the enactment of this Subsection, 2026 and every five years thereafter.
   (C)   Building portfolios. Building portfolios must be approved by the
Review Board, and building portfolio owners must submit documentation
confirming eligibility as a building portfolio. Notwithstanding the approval of
a building portfolio, owners must continue to report the water and energy use,
emissions data and any other information required by this Subsection for each
individual building. If a building is removed from or added to a building
portfolio for any reason, including transfer to a different owner, the building
shall retain its individual reporting data and be subject to the emissions
standards and the building portfolio shall be adjusted to reflect the removal
or addition of the building. The Review Board may require that the owner submit
a portfolio emissions reduction plan that prioritizes emissions reductions in
buildings located in or near Environmental Justice Populations, and may set
further conditions on the approval of a building portfolio consistent with the
regulations. The city may create multiple building portfolios.
   (D)   Energy, emissions and water disclosure required for city buildings.
      (1)   No later than May 15 of each year, the city shall report to the
Commission the previous year’s energy and water use by each city building. No
later than October 1 of each year, the city shall publicly disclose:
         (a)   The previous year’s energy and water use by each city building;
and
         (b)   The emissions compliance status of each city building.
      (2)   The Commission shall coordinate the performance of this
requirement.
   (E)   Energy, emissions and water reporting required for non-city buildings.
      (1)   Data reporting requirements. 
         (a)   No later than May 15 of each year, the owner of each building
subject to reporting requirements shall accurately report to the Commission,
via the Portfolio Manager or as required by the regulations, the following
information for the previous calendar year:
            1.   Energy and water use of each building and other building
characteristics necessary to evaluate absolute and relative CO2e emissions
intensity as required by the Commission. Energy and water use data shall not
include its associated cost;
            2.   The primary building use(s) of each building in accordance
with the categories listed in the Portfolio Manager and the regulations.
Multiple primary building uses can be reported; provided that each use occupies
at least 10% of the building’s square footage or accounts for at least 10% of
the building’s annual energy use or CO2e emissions;
            3.   If applicable, any Renewable Energy Certificates (“RECs”) used
to comply with the emissions standards set forth in this Subsection, including
proof of retirement of the RECs;
            4.   If applicable, any energy purchased via a Power Purchase
Agreement(s) that was used at the building and/or used to comply with the
emissions standards set forth in this Subsection, including, if relevant, proof
of retirement of associated RECs and the emissions factor of the grid where the
generating facility is located, if on a grid other than ISO New England. Owners
must provide the material terms of an executed Power Purchase Agreement that
demonstrates:
               a.   The quantity of energy purchased in the relevant calendar
year;
               b.   The type and generation location of the energy purchased;
               c.   The ownership of any RECs associated with the energy, if
relevant; and
               d.   Other information required by the regulations.
            5.   Any CO2e emissions factors for energy used by the building if
different from the emissions factors in the regulations; and
            6.   Contact information for owners and any designated Agents.
         (b)   Building owners may choose to report additional metrics,
including, but not limited to, building waste, occupancy, density, operational
hours, net lessees, Boston Resident Jobs Policy compliance, energy storage and
indoor air quality.
      (2)   Reporting schedules. 
         (a)   The initial reports shall occur according to the following
schedule.
            1.   For every non-residential building equal to or greater than
50,000 gross square feet or two or more buildings on the same parcel that equal
or exceed 100,000 gross square feet, the first report shall be submitted no
later than September 15, 2014.
            2.   For every non-residential building equal to or greater than
35,000 gross square feet but less than 50,000 gross square feet, the first
report shall be submitted no later than May 15, 2016.
            3.   For every non-residential building, or two or more buildings
on the same parcel, equal to or greater than 20,000 gross square feet but less
than 35,000 gross square feet, the first report shall be submitted no later
than May 15, 2022.
            4.   For every residential building equal to or greater than 50
units or 50,000 gross square feet, or two or more buildings held in the same
condominium form of ownership that are governed by the same Board of Managers
that together equal or exceed 50 units or 50,000 gross square feet, the first
report shall be submitted no later than May 15, 2015.
            5.   For every residential building equal to or greater than 35
units or 35,000 gross square feet, the first report shall be submitted no later
than May 15, 2017.
            6.   For every residential building, or two or more buildings on
the same parcel, equal to or greater than 15 units or 20,000 gross square feet
but less than 35 units or 35,000 square feet, the first report shall be
submitted no later than May 15, 2022.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Review Board shall develop a
procedure for establishing alternative reporting dates for building owners who
supply timely notification of extenuating circumstances. In 2022, building
owners may apply for a one-time six-month extension on their reporting
deadline.
   (F)   Direct upload. Provided that the necessary mechanisms already exist,
building owners may authorize an energy or water utility or other third party
to report building-specific data on their behalf to the Commission. Such
authorization shall not create an obligation on the part of energy or water
utilities or remove the obligation of building owners to comply with reporting
requirements.
   (G)   Equitable Emissions Investment Fund. 
      (1)   The City Auditor shall establish the Equitable Emissions Investment
Fund (hereinafter, the “Fund”) as a separate account and credit to the Fund all
alternative compliance payments and penalties made pursuant to this Subsection;
the city or Environment Department may direct other funds to the Fund at its
discretion. The Review Board is responsible for evaluating local carbon
abatement proposals, and making recommendations for expenditures from the Fund.
      (2)   Money in the Fund shall be expended for the support, implementation
and administration of local building carbon abatement projects that benefit the
city’s emissions reduction goals. Fund expenditures shall prioritize projects
that benefit Environmental Justice Populations and populations
disproportionately affected by air pollution, including by improving or
promoting:
         (a)   Low-income affordable housing and housing where tenants are at
risk of displacement and in need of rent stabilization;
         (b)   Local air quality improvement;
         (c)   Indoor environmental quality and health for building tenants;
         (d)   Economic inclusion, training and technical assistance for
Minority, Women and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (“MWDBE”) and
cooperative contractors;
         (e)   Equitable workforce development training programs for residents
who have been disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change;
         (f)   Projects with community ownership of housing and renewable
energy infrastructure;
         (g)   Reduced energy burdens; or
         (h)   Any further environmental initiatives.
      (3)   The regulations will address conditions for expenditure, which may
include but are not limited to the scale of anticipated emissions reductions,
compliance with employment and contracting standards, living wage standards,
language access, rent stabilization, air quality monitoring and improvements,
housing stability, disclosure of compliance status and mechanisms to tenants
and compliance with Fair Housing standards.
      (4)   During each fiscal year, the Review Board may incur liabilities
against and spend monies from the Fund, which shall operate for fiscal years
that begin on or after the date of implementation. Money in the Fund may be
used for administrative costs incurred by the Review Board, including
compensation for members as provided in division (S) below, or by the
Environment Department in supporting the Review Board.
   (H)   Data verification.
      (1)   Building owners shall self-certify their reporting data every year.
      (2)   In the building’s first year of reporting after this Subsection is
enacted, building owners shall provide a third-party verification of their
reporting data for the previous year. For every verification year thereafter,
building owners shall provide a third-party verification for the five calendar
years prior, but not including, the current year. Verifications must be
performed by qualified energy professionals, as defined by the regulations, and
submitted no later than the reporting deadline of the relevant year.
      (3)   In the event that there is a discrepancy between third-party
verified data and an owner’s self-certified reporting data, any resulting lack
of compliance with the emissions standards in this Subsection shall be subject
to fines as outlined in the regulations.
      (4)   The Commission may revise requirements for data verification and
qualified energy professionals via the regulations.
   (I)   Emissions requirements.
      (1)   Each building subject to the reporting requirements of this
Subsection shall comply with the CO2e emissions standards set forth in Table 1
below; provided, however, that building owners may develop and request approval
for Individual Compliance Schedules pursuant to the requirements in division
(K) below or request a Hardship Compliance Plan pursuant to division (L) below.
Buildings must comply with the emissions standards on an annual basis and
compliance shall be measured as a total of metric ton of CO2e emissions per
square foot. Buildings equal to or greater than 20,000 square or 15 units but
less than 35,000 square feet or 35 units shall not be subject to the emissions
standards until 2031, reporting for 2030 emissions. Any building that has been
completed after date of implementation shall comply with emissions standards
consistent with zoning approvals, which shall be considered binding and
supersede any less stringent emissions standards set out in this Subsection.
      (2)   Upon recommendation from the Environment Department, the Review
Board shall propose to the Commission an update to the CO2e emissions standards
set forth in Table 1, to ensure the city is achieving its emissions reduction
goals.
Table 1: CO2e Emissions Standards by Building Use
Building Use Emissions Standard (kgCO2e/SF/yr.)
             2025-2029 2030-2034 2035-2039 2040-2044 2045-2049 2050-
Building Use           Emissions Standard (kgCO2e/SF/yr.)
                       2025-2029 2030-2034 2035-2039 2040-2044 2045-2049 2050-
Assembly               7.8       4.6       3.3       2.1       1.1       0
College/university     10.2      5.3       3.8       2.5       1.2       0
Education              3.9       2.4       1.8       1.2       0.6       0
Food sales and service 17.4      10.9      8.0       5.4       2.7       0
Healthcare             15.4      10.0      7.4       4.9       2.4       0
Lodging                5.8       3.7       2.7       1.8       0.9       0
Manufacturing/         23.9      15.3      10.9      6.7       3.2       0
industrial
Multi-family housing   4.1       2.4       1.8       1.1       0.6       0
Office                 5.3       3.2       2.4       1.6       0.8       0
Retail                 7.1       3.4       2.4       1.5       0.7       0
Services               7.5       4.5       3.3       2.2       1.1       0
Storage                5.4       2.8       1.8       1.0       0.4       0
Technology/science     19.2      11.1      7.8       5.1       2.5       0
 
   (L)   Blended emissions standards.
      (1)   Buildings or building portfolios with more than one primary use may
comply with a blended CO2e emissions standard; provided, however, that a use
may constitute a primary use only if it:
         (a)   Occupies at least 10% of a building’s or building portfolio’s
square footage; or
         (b)   Accounts for more than 10% of a building’s or building
portfolio’s total annual energy use or CO2e emissions.
      (2)   Building owners using a blended CO2e emissions standard must:
         (a)   Designate the blended standard in annual reports to the
Commission; and
         (b)   Provide documentation verifying the qualification of each
primary use in annual reports to the Commission for the first year a blended
CO2e emissions standard is used and in any subsequent year when the blended
emissions standard or primary use(s) change.
   (J)   Energy use exempt from emissions requirements.
      (1)   Building owners may choose to deduct energy used by emergency
backup generation/backup power and electrical vehicle supply equipment (“EVSE”)
from a building’s total energy use subject to this Subsection’s CO2e emissions
standard; provided that:
         (a)   Emergency backup generation/backup power provides energy only to
the building or building portfolio;
         (b)   Electrical vehicle supply equipment is separately metered or
EVSE is capable of tracking and reporting accurate energy usage, and EVSE meets
specifications as defined by the regulations;
         (c)   1.   Building owners annually report:
               a.   Energy used by emergency backup generation/backup power and
electrical vehicle supply equipment;
               b.   The date(s), hour(s) and conditions that required the use
of emergency backup generation/backup power; and
               c.   Any other information required by the regulations.
            2.   Such reporting shall be subject to the self-certification and
third-party verification procedures in division (H) above.
         (d)   In the event that emergency backup generation/backup power or
EVSE serve, or have the potential to serve, multiple buildings in a building
portfolio, the energy use from such activities shall be allocated for
individual buildings in proportion to the square footage of each building;
      (2)   Upon recommendation from the Review Board, the Commission may
revise the availability and use of these exemptions or add additional
exemptions via the regulations. Energy used by emergency backup generation/
backup power may no longer be exempted after 2030, unless otherwise amended in
the regulations; provided, however, that such energy usage by a healthcare
institution shall continue to be exempted thereafter for so long as the
healthcare institution is required to install and maintain emergency backup
generation/backup power to ensure reliable operations or as a condition to
receiving accreditation.
   (K)   Individual Compliance Schedules.
      (1)   Owners of buildings or building portfolios may apply for an
Individual Compliance Schedule as an alternative to the CO2e emissions standard
reduction schedule in Table 1. Individual Compliance Schedules must establish
declining CO2e emissions standards in five-year increments; provided that such
standards must:
         (a)   Decline on a linear or better basis;
         (b)   Reduce emissions 50% by 2030;
         (c)   Reduce emissions 100% by 2050;
         (d)   Use the year that a building was first required to report energy
use pursuant to this Subsection as the baseline for emissions; provided,
however, that the building’s or building portfolio’s energy use, gross floor
area and any relevant emissions factors have been reported to the Commission in
accordance with this Subsection or is retroactively reported in accordance with
the data verification requirements of this Subsection and the Regulations; or
         (e)   Use a baseline from any year starting in 2005 to the first
required reporting year; provided, however, that the building or building
portfolio owner provides documentation of energy use, gross floor area and
relevant emissions factors by the building or building portfolio for the
selected baseline year and the year in which an Individual Compliance Schedule
is requested in accordance with the data verification requirements of this
Subsection and the Regulation. The Commission may make such information
publicly available.
      (2)   A building or building portfolio that failed to comply with
previous reporting requirements may use an Individual Compliance Schedule;
provided, however, that the necessary data is submitted to the Review Board and
any applicable penalties for past non-compliance are paid in full.
      (3)   Individual Compliance Schedules must be approved by the Review
Board. Building and building portfolio owners must submit the information
required in this Subsection, and any other documentation specified in the
Regulations, when requesting an Individual Compliance Schedule from the Review
Board. The Review Board may include additional conditions on the approval of
Individual Compliance Plans consistent with the Regulations.
   (L)   Hardship Compliance Plans. A building owner may apply to the Review
Board for a Hardship Compliance Plan if there are building characteristics or
circumstances that present a hardship in complying with the emissions standards
in this Section. Such characteristics or circumstances, to be detailed in the
regulations, may include historic building designations, affordable housing
refinancing timelines, pre-existing long-term energy contracts without
reopeners or financial hardship. The application, review process and conditions
for Hardship Compliance Plans shall be set forth in the regulations. The Review
Board shall have sole discretion in issuing Hardship Compliance Plans; such
plans may include alternative timelines for meeting emissions standards, and
alternative emissions standards. At its discretion, the Review Board may also
allow the use of compliance mechanisms additional to those outlined in division
(M) below consistent with achieving the purpose of this Subsection as laid out
in division (A) above. The Review Board may include additional conditions on
the approval of Hardship Compliance Plans consistent with the regulations,
including measures related to Employment Plans, housing stabilization, air
quality monitoring, energy cost- and benefit-sharing and disclosure of
compliance status and mechanisms to tenants, as appropriate.
   (M)   Additional compliance mechanisms.
      (1)   (a)   Municipal aggregation. Buildings may use electricity obtained
through the Boston municipal electricity aggregation program, and have the
appropriate Emissions Factor applied to such electricity.
         (b)   Renewable Energy Certificates. Buildings may mitigate CO2e
emissions from electricity use by purchasing unbundled Renewable Energy
Certificates that:
            1.   Are generated by non-CO2e emitting renewable sources and meet
the RPS Class I eligibility criteria outlined in 225 CMR 14.05, as may be
amended from time to time;
            2.   Are tracked by the New England Power Pool Generation
Information System;
            3.   Are generated in the compliance period in which they are used;
            4.   Are retired within six months after the end of the compliance
period in which they are used; and
            5.   Comply with any additional or different requirements set forth
in the regulations, as may be amended from time to time. In the event of a
conflict between the requirements for Renewable Energy Certificates in this
provision and the regulations, the requirements in the regulations shall
prevail.
         (c)   Power Purchase Agreements. Buildings may mitigate CO2e emissions
from electricity use by entering Power Purchase Agreements for energy generated
by renewable non-emitting fuel sources; provided that:
            1.   The energy purchased pursuant to a Power Purchase Agreement is
generated during the compliance period for which a building is mitigating CO2e
emissions;
            2.   The Renewable Energy Certificates associated with the energy
purchased under a Power Purchase Agreement are retired by the building owner
within six months after the end of the compliance period in which used; and
            3.   The Power Purchase Agreement complies with any additional or
different requirements set forth in the regulations, as may be amended from
time to time, including, but not limited to, additionality criteria. In the
event of a conflict between the requirements for Power Purchase Agreements in
this provision and the regulations, the requirements in the regulations shall
prevail.
         (d)   Alternative compliance payments. Buildings may mitigate CO2e
emissions from energy use by making alternative compliance payments. The price
of an alternative compliance payment shall be based on the average cost per
metric ton of CO2e to decarbonize buildings subject to this Subsection. The
initial cost of an alternative compliance payment shall be $234 per metric ton
of CO2e. The cost of an alternative compliance payment shall be reviewed every
five years by the Review Board, with input from the Environment Department, and
may be adjusted by the regulations.
      (2)   Upon recommendation from the Review Board, the Commission may
revise the availability and use of these compliance mechanisms or add
additional compliance mechanisms via the regulations, consistent with the
purpose of this Subsection as laid out in division (A) above.
   (N)   Preservation of documents. Building owners shall preserve records and
information:
      (1)   Required to be submitted by this Subsection; and/or
      (2)   Submitted pursuant to this Subsection in order to demonstrate
compliance with the emissions standard, including, but not limited to,
information regarding building uses, emissions factors, compliance mechanisms
outlined in division (M) above, Individual Compliance Schedules or Hardship
Compliance Plans, for such time as set forth in regulations, and shall make
such records available for inspection and audit by the Commission and Review
Board upon request.
   (O)   Obligation to request and report information. Where a unit or other
space in a building is occupied by a tenant and such unit or space is
separately metered by a utility company, the owner of such building may request
from such tenant information relating to such tenant’s separately metered
energy and water use, purchase of renewable energy or RECs, use of space and
operating hours and other information required for Portfolio Manager reporting,
for the previous calendar year, and such tenant shall report such information
to such owner. The Commission may designate and make available a form to be
used to request and report such information. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
individual residential tenants shall have no obligation to report energy and
water use to building owners.
      (1)   Such owner may request information related to such tenant’s metered
energy and water use and other related information for the previous calendar
year no earlier than January 1 and no later than January 31 of any year in
which the owner is required to report such information.
      (2)   Upon receiving such a request, a tenant shall report information
relating to the tenant’s separately metered energy and water use for the
previous calendar year no later than February 28 of any year in which the owner
is required to report such information.
      (3)   If a tenant vacates a unit or other space before the end of the
calendar year without reporting metered energy and water use, such owner may
immediately request such information for any period of occupancy relevant to
such owner’s obligation to report and the tenant shall respond within 30 days.
      (4)   Failure of any tenant to report the information required in this
Subsection does not relieve such owner of the obligation to report pursuant to
this Subsection.
      (5)   Where an owner of a building is unable to obtain complete energy
and water use data due to the failure of any tenant to report the information
required by this Subsection, the owner shall use values or formulas established
by the Commission to estimate whole building energy and water use.
   (P)   Disclosure. 
      (1)   The Commission shall make energy, water and emissions information
for buildings available to the public on the city website in multiple languages
consistent with city language standards no later than October 1 of every year,
except for 2022 in which it shall make such information available to the public
no later than December 1, 2022. Such disclosure shall include, at a minimum,
building identification; energy intensity; CO2e emissions per square foot;
emissions compliance status; ENERGY STAR rating, where available; and water
consumption per square foot. Such disclosures may include information
voluntarily reported to the Commission. Before any such disclosure, the
Commission shall subject all data to a quality-assurance/quality-control
process.
         (a)   At least 30 days prior to disclosure, the Commission shall
provide building owners an opportunity to review the accuracy of information to
be disclosed.
         (b)   The Commission shall invite building owners to submit contextual
information related to energy and water use in their buildings, and shall
disclose contextual information in such form as it shall determine.
         (c)   The Commission shall also, from time to time, publicly report on
implementation of, compliance with and overall results from this Subsection;
however, the first such report shall be issued no later than December 31, 2022.
      (2)   To the extent available to the Commission, the Commission shall
disclose information relevant to air quality, energy cost burdens, fair housing
and housing displacement, jobs and other qualitative and quantitative metrics
related to Environmental Justice Populations and equitable implementation of
this Subsection. Within one year, the Environment Department shall identify
appropriate metrics and research mechanisms for:
         (a)   Measuring and collecting this type of information; and
         (b)   Analyzing the impact, if any, of this Subsection on such
metrics.
      (3)   The city, in consultation with the Review Board, shall issue annual
reports on the Equitable Emissions Investment Fund, including balance of funds,
expenditures, funded projects and anticipated impacts relative to greenhouse
gas emissions, air quality and local employment. Administrative costs, Review
Board compensation and other liabilities incurred against and spent from the
Fund shall also be included. These reports will be available for the public on
the city website and follow current city language and accessibility guidelines.
   (Q)   Enforcement for failure to comply with this Subsection.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this Subsection and
regulations issued pursuant to this Subsection shall result in the imposition
of penalties by the Review Board. For any failure to comply, the Review Board
shall have the authority to: issue a notice of violation subject to penalties
if not corrected; and recommend seeking an injunction from a court of competent
jurisdiction requiring a building owner or tenant to comply with the
requirements of this Subsection; provided, however, this provision shall not
apply to residential tenants.
      (2)   Notice of violation. The Review Board shall issue a written notice
of violation to any building owner or tenant violating this Subsection by
failing to comply with any of the provisions of this Subsection or any
Regulation issued pursuant to this Subsection. The notice of violation shall
indicate which obligations the building owner or tenant has not fulfilled and
provide the building owner or tenant with 30 days to either:
         (a)   Correct the notice of violation by complying with this
Subsection and associated regulations; or
         (b)   Send a written request to the Executive Director of the
Commission for a hearing by the Review Board for a determination of whether the
building owner or tenant violated this Subsection.
      (3)   Request for a hearing. If a building owner or tenant requests a
hearing, the Review Board shall hold such hearing within 60 days of the
Executive Director of the Commission’s receipt of a written request for
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of M.G.L.
Chapter 30A. If the Review Board determines that the building owner or tenant
violated this Subsection, that person shall have 30 days from the issuance of a
final decision to correct the violation.
      (4)   Failure to comply with notice of violation. If a person who does
not request a hearing fails to correct a noticed violation of this Subsection
within 30 days after the Review Board issues a written notice of violation,
that person shall be deemed to have failed to comply with the notice of
violation. If a person who requested a hearing fails to correct a noticed
violation of this Subsection within 30 days after the issuance of an adverse
decision after a hearing, that person shall be deemed to have failed to comply
with the notice of violation. Any person who has failed to comply with a notice
of violation shall be subject to a fine as set forth in division (R) below.
      (5)   Injunctive relief.
         (a)   Upon recommendation from the Review Board, the city shall seek
an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction instructing a building
owner or tenant who has failed to comply with a notice of violation to comply
with this Subsection and regulations issued pursuant to this Subsection;
provided, however, this provision shall not apply to residential tenants.
         (b)   The Review Board shall have discretion in deciding whether to
recommend seeking an injunction.
      (6)   Fines. All fines and penalties issued under this Subsection may be
enforced pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Section 31C; provided however, that this permission to utilize the noncriminal
disposition procedures of Section 21D shall not deprive the Review Board or the
Commission of any other remedy or means of collecting the fine, including by
indictment or complaint. For any fines or penalties that remain unpaid 30 days
following the receipt of a notice of violation the Commission shall, upon
recommendation from the Review Board, take steps to place an assessment on the
building owner’s tax bill or a lien on the building pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter
40U, Section 12. The Review Board shall have discretion in deciding whether to
recommend placing assessments or liens.
   (R)   Penalties and fines for failure to comply with this Subsection. The
fines outlined in this Subsection may be revised by the regulations upon
advisement by the Environment Department. References to buildings in this
Subsection shall be deemed to include building portfolios. The regulations
shall provide a building owner with an opportunity to administratively appeal
any such fine pursuant to an appeal mechanism that is consistent with that
required by M.G. L. Chapter 40U.
      (1)   Failure to comply with reporting requirements.
         (a)   Each day that a building owner is out of compliance with the
reporting requirement of this Subsection, in whole or in part, shall be deemed
a separate violation of this Subsection and subject to a fine of:
            1.   Three hundred dollars a day for:
               a.   Non-residential buildings equal to or greater than 35,000
gross square feet or two or more buildings on the same parcel that equal or
exceed 100,000 gross square feet; and
               b.   Residential buildings equal to or greater than 35 units or
35,000 gross square feet.
            2.   One hundred fifty dollars a day for:
               a.   Non-residential buildings equal to or greater than 20,000
gross square feet but less than 35,000 gross square feet; and
               b.   Residential buildings equal to or greater than 15 units or
20,000 gross square feet, but less than 35 units or 35,000 gross square feet.
         (b)   No penalty shall be assessed prior to 30 days after receipt of a
notice of violation by a building owner or if a building owner corrects the
violation within 30 days of receipt of a notice of violation.
      (2)   Failure to comply with emission standards.
         (a)   If a building owner did not comply with the applicable emissions
standard in a calendar year, each day of that calendar year and each subsequent
day when the violation is not corrected shall be deemed a separate violation of
this Subsection and subject to a fine of:
            1.   One thousand dollars a day for:
               a.   Non-residential buildings equal to or greater than 35,000
gross square feet or two or more buildings on the same parcel that equal or
exceed 100,000 gross square feet; and
               b.   Residential buildings equal to or greater than 35 units or
35,000 gross square feet.
            2.   Three hundred dollars a day for:
               a.   Non-residential buildings equal to or greater than 20,000
gross square feet but less than 35,000 gross square feet; and
               b.   Residential buildings equal to or greater than 15 units or
20,000 gross square feet, but less than 35 units or 35,000 gross square feet.
         (a)   For any building owner that has failed to report any or all
information required by this Subsection to calculate compliance with the
emissions standard, the building shall be deemed to be in non-compliance with
the emissions standard and subject to the fines in this subclause. A building
owner may correct such non-compliance by providing the information required by
this Subsection to calculate compliance with the emissions standard and, if
necessary, make use of relevant compliance mechanisms to account for any
failure to meet the emissions standard. No penalty shall be assessed prior to
30 days after receipt of a notice of violation by a building owner or if a
building owner corrects the violation within 30 days of receipt of a notice of
violation.
      (3)   Failure to accurately report information.
         (a)   In the event that third-party verification of information
reported by a building owner identifies a discrepancy with a building owner’s
self-certified reporting, and such discrepancy is not reconciled pursuant to a
process to be outlined by regulation, such discrepancy shall be deemed a
violation of this Subsection and subject to a fine between $1,000 and $5,000.
The Review Board shall, in its sole discretion, determine the fine taking into
account whether the failure to accurately report information impacted a
determination of compliance with an emissions standard. An owner may petition
the Review Board for a reduction in such a penalty in accordance with the
conditions outlined in the regulations, which shall include circumstances in
which a third-party verification was filed by a prior owner. The Review Board
may, in its discretion, reduce such penalty through the process as laid out in
the regulations.
         (b)   In the event that a failure to accurately report information
resulted in inaccurately determining that a building owner complied with an
emissions standard, the penalties from division (R)(2) above shall apply.
      (4)   Penalty reductions and waivers. The Review Board may grant penalty
reductions or waivers. Details regarding petitions, review process and
conditions for penalty reductions or waivers may be set forth in the
regulations. In determining whether to grant any reduction in penalty for
failure to comply with emission standards, the Review Board shall consider an
owner’s plans for bringing a Building into full compliance and whether there
are Building characteristics or circumstances that present a hardship in
complying with the emissions standards in this Section. Such characteristics or
circumstances could include historic building designations, affordable housing
or financial hardship. The Review Board shall have sole discretion in granting
penalty reductions or waivers.
      (5)   Applicability. This division (R) shall not apply to the city or any
city building.
   (S)   Review Board. 
      (1)   There is established a nine member independent Review Board
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Boston City Council. Members of the
Review Board shall have expertise in environmental justice, affordable housing,
labor and workers’ rights, workforce development, building engineering and
energy, real estate development and management, public health and hospitals,
architecture and historic preservation or any combination thereof.
      (2)   Two-thirds of the members of the Review Board shall be nominated by
community- based organizations, and all members shall be current residents of
the city. The Chair of the Boston City Council’s Environment, Resiliency and
Parks Committee, or his or her designee, shall serve as a member of the Review
Board. The Regulations shall designate community groups and organizations to
nominate individuals to serve on the Review Board, subject to the Mayor’s
appointment and the Council’s approval. Members of the Review Board for whom
participation is not part of a full- or part-time job may request compensation
for their service on the Review Board. The regulations shall establish a rate
of compensation per meeting and a cumulative compensation per year.
      (3)   Members shall serve for a term of three years. As the term of any
member expires, their successor, or their renewal, shall be nominated by the
organizations identified in the regulations and appointed by the Mayor, subject
to Council approval. Vacancies in the Review Board shall be filled by the
Mayor, subject to Council approval for the unexpired term. Every three years,
the Mayor shall designate a member to be the Chair of the Review Board.
      (4)   The Review Board shall meet a minimum of four times per year and
may meet more often as it deems necessary to fulfill its obligations under this
Subsection.
      (5)   Working groups may be convened to study or make recommendations for
regulations changes or sector-specific criteria for Hardship Compliance Plans,
subject to the approval of the Review Board. A working group will be convened
to address the specific needs of healthcare institutions connected to district
energy systems. Working groups may include individuals not on the Review Board,
including representatives of appropriate federal, commonwealth and local
Agencies and authorities, sector-specific professionals, financial institution
representatives, energy providers and utility representatives, among others.
      (6)   The Review Board may draft regulation revisions and may issue
guidance to the Environment Department to ensure equitable implementation of
this Subsection.
      (7)   Funding, capacity-building and staff support shall be provided to
the Review Board by the Environment Department. The Environment Department
shall also be responsible for annual disclosure and policy administration and
carry out enforcement actions as directed by the Review Board. The Review Board
may delegate responsibilities, such as, but not limited to, the approval of
requests for blended emissions standards and Individual Compliance Schedules,
to the Environment Department.
   (T)   Advisory Committee. Any Advisory Committee previously established
pursuant to this Subsection shall be disbanded.
   (U)   Review and power to suspend. 
      (1)   The Commission shall direct the Environment Department to review
the implementation of this Subsection every five years. As part of such review,
the Environment Department shall hold at least one public hearing and solicit
comments from the public. Such request for comments shall include a request for
information regarding how, if at all, implementation of this Subsection has
impacted air quality, energy cost burdens and other qualitative and
quantitative metrics related to Environmental Justice Populations and equitable
implementation of this Subsection; to the extent such information is available
from other City Departments, the Environment Department shall take all
reasonable steps to collect and analyze such information.
      (2)   The Commission may suspend all or part of the requirements of this
Subsection upon a written finding from the Environment Department that a
significant obstacle interferes with implementation or that implementation has
a significant negative effect on energy cost burdens, equitable access to
housing or other factors set forth in the regulations. The Commission may lift
such suspension upon a written finding from the Environment Department that the
obstacle has been removed or the negative effect addressed. The Commission
shall suspend the requirements of this Subsection as necessary to ensure that
at least 90 days passes between the promulgation of regulations and any
reporting deadline.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Environment Department may
recommend revisions to the regulations as needed.
   (V)   Regulatory authority. In accordance with recommendations from the
Environment Department, the Commission shall promulgate rules and regulations,
including amending the existing Regulations, necessary to implement and enforce
this Subsection, pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A.
   (W)   Applicability. If any provision of this Subsection imposes greater
restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law,
special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, by-law, order or policy, then the
provisions of this Subsection control.
   (X)   Implementation. The provisions of this Subsection are effective
immediately upon passage.
   (Y)   Notice. Within three months of the adoption of this Subsection,
notification concerning reporting and disclosure procedures shall be provided
to owners subject to the requirements of this Subsection. This notice, and any
other notice required by this Subsection, including notices of violation, shall
be delivered to the contact information in the assessor’s database unless an
owner provides alternative contact information to the Commission.
(CBC 1985 7-2.2; Ord. 2013 c. 5; Ord. 2014 c. 2; Ord. 2021 c. 13 § 1)
7-2.3   Diesel Emissions Reductions.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The purpose of this Section is to minimize the public health risks
associated with exposure to diesel particulate emissions by establishing
requirements relating to the use of ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel and diesel
emissions control technology by non-road and on-road diesel vehicles used in
city projects and services, and by city owned, leased or operated diesel
vehicles.
      (2)   It is further the purpose of this Section to protect the public
health and the environment by reducing vehicular emissions and conserving fuel.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APCC. The Air Pollution Control Commission.
      CARB. The California Air Resources Board or any successor Agency.
      CONSUMER PRICE INDEX. The annual average Consumer Price Index (“CPI-U”)
as determined by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.
      DIESEL EQUIPMENT. Any diesel-powered equipment greater than 50 brake-
horsepower.
      EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency or any successor
Agency.
      NON-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is powered by a non-road diesel engine
50 brake- horsepower or greater and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle
used solely for competition, which shall include, but not be limited to,
backhoes, bulldozers, compressors, cranes, excavators, generators and similar
equipment; NON-ROAD VEHICLES do not include locomotives or marine vessels.
      ON-ROAD VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting
persons or property on a street or highway that operates on diesel fuel and
that has a gross vehicle weight rating of 14,000 pounds or more.
      ULTRA LOW SULFUR DIESEL FUEL. means diesel fuel that has a sulfur content
of no more than 15 parts per million.
      VERIFIED OR CERTIFIED RETROFIT TECHNOLOGY. Diesel emissions control
technology that appears on the Verified Retrofit Technologies List of EPA or
CARB or any successor list or that has been certified by its manufacturer as
meeting or exceeding emissions reductions provided by emission control
technology on such a list, the adequacy of such certification being subject to
review by the city.
   (C)   Idling.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every Police Officer, every official or
employee of the Transportation Department assigned the responsibilities
provided in Subsection 6-6.2, and every Official or employee of the Air
Pollution Control Commission who takes cognizance of a violation of any
provision of M.G.L. Chapter 90, Sections 16A and 16B, as now or hereinafter
amended, or any regulation, as now or hereinafter amended, promulgated by the
Registry of Motor Vehicles pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 16B, to issue
a written warning or to issue a written violation and to give the offender a
notice to appear before the Parking Clerk, during regular Office hours, not
later than 21 days after the date of the violation. The offender has the right
to appeal a violation to the Parking Clerk, and that such hearings before the
Parking Clerk will be conducted pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A.
      (2)   (a)   The fine for any violation of the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 90, Section 16A, as now or hereinafter amended, shall be $100 for the
first offense, and $500 for each succeeding offense.
         (b)   The fine for any violation of the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter
90, Section 16B and 540 CMR 27.00 et seq., as now or herein after amended,
shall be $100 for the first offense, and $500 for each succeeding offense.
      (3)   Any violation issued pursuant to this Section, and any appeal of
such violation to the Office of the Parking Clerk, shall be done in accordance
with the procedures set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½.
   (D)   City vehicles. 
      (1)   All on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment owned,
leased or operated by the city shall:
         (a)   Be powered by ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel; and
         (b)   Meet EPA emissions standards for new vehicles in effect in 2007
or later for their respective classes of vehicle or have verified or certified
retrofit technology that removes at least 20% of particulates from the exhaust
stream.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the requirements of division (D)(1) above, the
Commissioner of Public Works, in consultation with the Air Pollution Control
Commission, may determine, if supported by data concerning annual vehicle
usage, fuel consumption and emission rates, that a greater net reduction in
diesel emissions can be achieved at a lesser cost to the city by withholding
the installation of diesel emission control equipment from certain vehicles and
installing higher-yield diesel emission control equipment on other vehicles. In
such cases, equipment installation shall follow said determination. Vehicles
receiving higher-yield emission control equipment and vehicles receiving none
on this basis shall be specifically identified in the annual report required by
division (F)(2) below.
      (3)   All on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment owned,
leased or operated by the city shall meet this requirement set forth in this
division (D) by December 31, 2015.
      (4)   Exemptions: The following are exempt from the requirements of this
division (D):
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, including, but not limited to, vehicles
operated by the Boston Police Department, Boston Fire Department and Boston
Emergency Medical Services;
         (b)   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment used
solely for snow removal;
         (c)   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment in
operation for fewer than 100 hours a year;
         (d)   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment to be
sold, surplused or removed from service before December 31, 2015, as determined
by the Director of Central Fleet Management; and
         (e)   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment
identified in a cost-effectiveness determination, as specified in division (D)
(2) above.
   (E)   Contract requirements. All contracts entered into by the city for
construction projects and other projects and services having a total estimated
cost in excess of $2,000,000 adjusted annually to reflect changes in the
Consumer Price Index, shall require that on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles
and diesel equipment used to fulfill the contract or any subcontracts:
      (1)   Be powered by ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel; and
      (2)   Meet EPA emissions standards for new vehicles and equipment in
effect in 2007 or later for their respective classes of vehicle or equipment;
or have verified or certified retrofit technology that removes a significant
percentage of particulates from the exhaust stream, as follows.
         (a)   1.   For contracts entered into on or after July 1, 2015 and
before July 1, 2016, verified or certified retrofit technology shall be present
on at least one half of all on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel
equipment used to fulfill the contract and requiring retrofit technology, and
shall remove at least 20% of particulates from the exhaust stream.
            2.   Exemptions: The following on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles
and diesel equipment are exempt from the requirements relevant to contracts
entered into on or after July 1, 2015 and before July 1, 2016 as provided in
division (E)(2)(a)1. above:
               a.   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment,
which are not owned by the contractor and on site for fewer than 30 days during
the life of the project, or any lesser period of time as determined by the APCC
pursuant to division (F)(4);
               b.   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment
used solely for snow removal; and
               c.   On-road vehicles used solely for the delivery of products
or goods to the city.
         (b)   1.   For contracts entered into on or after July 1, 2016 and
before July 1, 2017, verified or certified retrofit technology shall be present
on all on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment used to fulfill
the contract and requiring retrofit technology.
            2.   Exemptions: The following on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles
and diesel equipment are exempt from the requirements relevant to contracts
entered on or after July 1, 2016 and before July 1, 2017 as provided in
division (E)(2)(b)1. above:
               a.   On-road vehicles, non- road vehicles and diesel equipment,
which are not owned by the contractor and on site for fewer than 30 days during
the life of the project, or any lesser period of time as determined by the APCC
pursuant to division (F)(4) below;
               b.   On-road vehicles, non-road vehicles and diesel equipment
used solely for snow removal; and
               c.   On-road vehicles used solely for the delivery of products
or goods to the city.
         (c)   For contracts entered into on or after July 1, 2017, verified or
certified retrofit technology:
            1.   Shall, if available for the vehicle or equipment, remove at
least 85% of particulates from the exhaust stream;
            2.   If equipment required by division (E)(2)(c)1. above is not
available, the verified or certified retrofit technology shall remove the
highest possible percentage of particulates from the exhaust stream. All
equipment within a five-point range shall be considered equivalent;
            3.   Notwithstanding the requirements of divisions (E)(2)(c)1. and
2. above, no retrofit technology shall be required that reduces the safety of
operation for any vehicle or equipment, as determined by the requirements of
the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other
similarly recognized national organization; and
            4.   Exemptions: The following on-road vehicles, non-road vehicles
and diesel equipment are exempt from the requirements relevant to contracts
entered on or after July 1, 2017 as provided in division (E)(2)(c)1. through 3.
above:
               a.   On-road vehicles, non- road vehicles and diesel equipment
retrofit before July 1, 2017, to meet the requirements of division (E)(2)(b)1
above;
               b.   On-road vehicles, non- road vehicles and diesel equipment,
which are not owned by the contractor and on site for fewer than 30 days during
the life of the project, or any lesser period of time as determined by the APCC
pursuant to division (F)(4) below;
               c.   On-road vehicles, non- road vehicles and diesel equipment
used solely for snow removal; and
               d.   On-road vehicles used solely for the delivery of products
or goods to the city.
      (3)   Compliance with these requirements shall be deemed a cost of doing
business and shall be considered incidental to the cost of the contract.
   (F)   Implementation. The Air Pollution Control Commission shall:
      (1)   Issue guidance to all city Departments and Agencies for
implementing the requirements of this Section; obtaining documentation of
compliance; and providing application procedures and deadlines about available
local, commonwealth and federal public incentive programs to retrofit, re-power
or replace older, more polluting diesel equipment;
      (2)   Issue an annual report on the overall progress of implementation to
the Mayor and City Council;
      (3)   Upon request of a contracting Agency or as determined by the
Commission, review the adequacy of manufacturer’s certification for retrofit
technology;
      (4)   From time to time, after public hearing, review and change the
length of time that diesel vehicles or equipment not owned by contractors may
remain on project sites without having emissions reduction or retrofit
technology. Any such change by the Commission shall apply to all contracts
described in division (E) above and shall take effect in the following fiscal
year;
      (5)   Every five years, review and, as appropriate, recommend to the
Mayor changes in requirements for diesel emissions control equipment for all
city and contract vehicles and equipment subject to this Section; and
      (6)   Notwithstanding other divisions of this Section, the Commission may
participate in or offer grant programs to assist owners of diesel vehicles and
equipment in reducing emissions from their vehicles.
   (G)   Enforcement and sanctions. Upon request, the Commission shall provide
assistance to the contracting Agency in determining non-compliance with the
ordinance. In the event of non-compliance, the contracting Agency shall
immediately utilize all remedies available under the contract to address and
halt the noncompliance, including, where appropriate, termination of the
contract.
   (H)   Applicability. If any provision of this Section imposes greater
restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law,
special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, by-law, order or policy then the
provisions of this Section control. Nothing in this Section shall be construed
to restrict or abrogate any of the duties, powers or responsibilities of any
official or employee of the city existing prior to the enactment of this
Section.
   (I)   Severability. If any provision of this Section is to be held invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction then such provision should be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
   (J)   Date of effectiveness. The provisions of this Section are effective
immediately upon passage.
(CBC 1985 7-2.3; Ord. 2015 c. 5)
7-3   BAY VILLAGE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
7-3.1   Bay Village Historic District.
   (A)   The purpose of this Section is to promote the educational, cultural,
economic and general welfare of the public through the preservation and
protection of the distinctive characteristics of buildings and places
significant in the history of the city that are located in the area known as
Bay Village, and through the maintenance and improvement of settings for such
buildings and places and the encouragement of design compatible therewith.
   (B)   There is hereby established an Historic District to be known as the
Bay Village Historic District under the provisions of the Historic District
Act, M.G.L. Chapter 40C and Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, the boundaries of which
are as shown on the map entitled “Bay Village Historic District”, dated Fall,
1979, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be part of the ordinance.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.1)
7-3.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Commissioner of Inspectional Services of the city or
his or her assignee.
   COMMISSION. The Bay Village Historic District Commission.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The architectural style and general
arrangement of such portion of the exterior of a structure as is designed to be
open to view from a public way, including all elevations intended to be seen on
freestanding buildings, and kind, color and texture of the building material of
such portion and type of all windows, doors, lights, signs and other fixtures
appurtenant to such portion except those exempted from review in accordance
with M.G.L. Chapter 40C and this Section.
   SIGN. A sign, marquee, awning or other exterior feature protruding from any
structure.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials assembled at a fixed location to give
support or shelter, such as a building, bridge, trestle, tower, framework,
retaining wall, tank, tunnel, tent, stadium, reviewing stand, platform, bin,
fence, sign, flagpole or the like. The word STRUCTURE shall be construed, where
the context allows, as though followed by the words “or part thereof”.
(Ord 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.2)
7-3.3   Bay Village Historic District Commission.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Historic District Commission, under the
provisions of the M.G.L. Chapter 40C, and Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, consisting
of five members and three alternate members to be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council. When the Commission is first established, one
member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two shall be appointed for a
term of two years and two shall be appointed for a term of three years. When
the Commission is first established, one alternate member shall be appointed
for a term of one year, one alternate member shall be appointed for a term of
two years and one alternate member shall be appointed for a term of three
years.
   (B)   Successors to members and to alternate members shall be appointed for
a term of three years, except that members and alternate members may be
appointed during a term to fill vacancies occurring on the Commission for the
remaining portion of the term.
   (C)   The membership of the Commission shall be comprised of one member from
two nominees submitted by the Society for the Preservation of New England
Antiquities; one member from two nominees submitted by the Boston Society of
Architects; one member from two nominees serving on the Boston Landmarks
Commission; one member from two nominees submitted by the Greater Boston Real
Estate Board; one member, a resident of the Bay Village Historic District; two
alternate members from four nominees who are residents of the Bay Village
Historic District; one alternate member from two nominees serving on the Boston
Landmarks Commissions.
   (D)   The Commission shall elect annually a Chair and Vice-Chair from its
own number and a Secretary from within or without its number.
   (E)   Alternates shall have all powers and duties of regular members when
called to serve by the Chair or Vice-Chair of the Commission.
   (F)   All members and alternates shall serve without compensation.
   (G)   All members and alternates shall be residents of the city. It is
preferred that the majority of membership be residents of the Historic
District.
   (H)   Without regard to M.G.L. Chapter 31 and under the provisions of
Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, as amended, the city Environment Department shall
provide the Commission with an administrative staff adequate to carry on the
functions of the Commission as provided for in this Section.
   (I)   Such staff shall be employees of the Environment Department, and
notwithstanding the foregoing the Commission may contract directly for such
professional and expert technical assistance as such business shall require.
   (J)   For the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A, every member of the
Commission, and every person who shall, on a part-time and consultative basis,
perform any professional services for the Commission, such as the services of
architect, attorney, engineer, architectural historian, planner,
environmentalist or expert in construction, finance, real estate or traffic,
shall be deemed to be a special municipal employee.
   (K)   The Commission shall adopt by-laws which specify the standards and
criteria included in the Bay Village Historic District study report. Amendments
to criteria may be established by amendments to the by- laws of the Commission.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.3)
7-3.4   Administration of Historic Districts.
   No building, or property, or structure within the Historic District shall be
constructed, demolished, moved or altered in any way that affects exterior
architectural features, and no building shall be moved into the Historic
District unless the Commission shall first have issued a certificate of
appropriateness, a certificate of hardship or a certificate of non-
applicability with respect to such construction, demolition, alteration or
movement. The Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit within an Historic
District unless one of the certificates noted above has first been issued by
the Commission or the proposed improvement is exempted from these provisions by
Subsection 7-3.5.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.4) Penalty, see Subsection 7-3.8
7-3.5   Exemptions to Review.
   The Authority of the Commission is not extended to the review of the
following:
   (A)   Temporary structures or signs, subject however, to such conditions as
to duration of use, location, lighting, removal and similar matters as the
Commission may reasonably specify in the standards and criteria;
   (B)   Ordinary maintenance or repair of an architectural feature which
involves no change in design, material or outward appearance thereof;
   (C)   Construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any such
feature which the Building Commissioner shall certify is required by the public
safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition; and
   (D)   The Boston Redevelopment Authority shall administer the development of
Urban Renewal Parcel R-7 in accordance with the September, 1980, Developers Kit
(The Guidelines) for this parcel, whose guidelines are incorporated herein by
reference. This exemption shall terminate upon completion of development, and
the completed building and associated property shall then be subject to
Commission jurisdiction in all respects.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.5; Ord. 2023 c. 3)
7-3.6   Applications for Certificates from Historic District Commission.
   (A)   Any person who is required to obtain a certificate from the Commission
shall file with the Commission, an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, a certificate of non-applicability, or a certificate of
hardship, as the case may be, in such form as the Commission may reasonably
determine, together with such plans, elevations, specifications, material and
other information, including, in the case of demolition or removal, a statement
of the proposed condition and appearance of the property thereafter, as may be
reasonably deemed necessary by the Commission to enable it to make a
determination on the application.
   (B)   Within eight days after the filing for a certificate of
appropriateness, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, the Commission
shall determine the properties materially affected by the application. Unless a
public hearing on such application is waived in writing by all persons entitled
to a notice, the Commission shall require its secretary to give, by mail,
reasonable notice of a public hearing before the Commission on such application
to the applicant, the owners of all property determined by the Commission to be
materially affected as they appear on the most recent real estate tax list, and
any persons filing a written request for notice of hearings, such requests to
be renewed yearly in December.
   (C)   The Commission, as soon as may be convenient following such public
hearing, or the waiver thereof, but within 30 days, Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, after the filing of the application for the
Certificate of Appropriateness, or within such further time as the applicant
may in writing allow, shall determine whether or not the construction,
reconstruction, alteration or demolition of the exterior architectural feature
is consistent with the purpose of this Section and whether, notwithstanding
that it may be inappropriate owing to conditions especially affecting the
structure involved but not affecting the Historic Bay Village District
generally, failure to issue a Certificate of Appropriateness will involve a
substantial hardship to the applicant and such a certificate may be issued
without substantial detriment to the public welfare and without substantial
derogation from the intent and purposes of this Section.
   (D)   In passing upon appropriateness, the Commission shall consider, in
addition to other pertinent factors as specified in the standards and criteria
Section of the by-laws, the historical and architectural value and
significance, architectural style, general design, arrangement, texture and
material of the exterior architectural feature involved and the relationship
thereof to the exterior architectural features of other structures in the
immediate neighborhood. If the Commission determines that a Certificate of
Appropriateness should be granted, the Secretary of the Commission shall issue
to the applicant a Certificate of Appropriateness. If the Commission fails to
make a determination within the time hereinafter prescribed, the Secretary of
the Commission shall issue to the applicant a Certificate of Hardship. If the
Commission determines that a certificate not be issued, then the Commission
shall include in its records the reasons for such determination any
recommendations it may have. The Secretary shall then, by mail, give notice of
such determination to applicant and to every person filing a written request
for such notice, enclosing with it an attested copy of the reasons and
recommendations as contained in the records on the Commission.
   (E)   Every person about to apply to the Building Commissioner for a permit
to construct any structure in the Historic District or to reconstruct, alter or
demolish any structure now or hereafter in said district shall deposit with the
Secretary of the Commission his or her application for such permit together
with such plans, specifications and other material as the Commission may, from
time to time, prescribe. Within eight days thereafter, Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, the Commission shall consider such application, plans,
specifications and other material and determine whether any exterior
architectural feature is involved. If it is so determined that no exterior
architectural feature is involved, the Secretary of the Commission shall
endorse on the application a Certificate of Non-Applicability and return the
application, plans, specifications and other material to the applicant.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.6)
7-3.7   Appeals.
   Under the provisions of the M.G.L. Chapter 40C, Section 12A, any applicant
aggrieved by a determination of the Commission, may, within 20 days after the
filing of the notice of such determination or such finding with the City Clerk,
appeal to the Superior Court for Suffolk County. The Court shall hear all
pertinent evidence and shall annul the determination of the Commission if it
finds the decision of the Commission to be unsupported by the evidence, or to
exceed the authority of the Commission, or may remand the case for further
action by the Commission, or make such other decree as justice and equity may
require. The remedy provided by this Section shall be exclusive; but the
parties shall have all rights of appeal and exception as in other equity cases.
Costs shall not be allowed against the Commission unless it shall appear to the
Court that the Commission acted with gross negligence, in bad faith or with
malice in the matter from which the appeal was taken. Costs shall not be
allowed against the party appealing from such determination of the Commission
unless it shall appear to the court that the appellant acted in bad faith or
with malice in making the appeal to the court.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.7)
7-3.8   Enforcement.
   (A)   Whoever, without the certificate required by and effective in
accordance with this act, shall undertake any construction, reconstruction,
restoration, exterior execution, exterior replacement or alteration or
demolition with respect to any exterior architectural feature in Bay Village
Historic District shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500, and whoever, after having received from the Commissioner appropriate
notice to desist, shall, in violation of this act, permit any exterior
architectural feature in the Historic District to continue to exist shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500. A separate offense
shall occur every day during any portion of which any such violation shall
transpire.
   (B)   Upon petition of the Commission, the Superior Court for Suffolk County
may restrain any construction, reconstruction, restoration, exterior
replacement, alteration or demolition in violation of this act and may order
the removal in whole or in part of any exterior architectural feature permitted
to exist in violation of this act and may order the removal in whole or in part
of any exterior architectural feature permitted to exist in violation of this
act and may order such reconstruction or restoration as may be necessary or
desirable to redress any alterations or demolition undertaken in violation of
this act.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.8)
7-3.9   Fees.
   The fee that shall accompany an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness from the Bay Village Historic District Commission shall be set
by ordinance.
(Ord. 1983 c. 18; CBC 1985 7-3.9)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 18-1.5(8)
7-3.10   Other Function of Commission.
   The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business, not inconsistent with M.G.L. Chapter 40C, or with the purpose of this
Section. The Commission with approval of the Mayor and Boston City Council may
receive and accept appropriations, grants and gifts for the furthering of the
purposes of this Section. It may establish an historic marker program, publish
guides, maps and other appropriate publications to illustrate historical and
architectural resources of this Historic District. The Commission may propose
changes in the Bay Village Historic District boundaries and additional historic
districts as it deems appropriate, subject to the M.G.L. Chapter 40C and to
Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, as amended.
(Ord. 1983 c.18; CBC 1985 7-3.10)
7-3.11   Severability.
   In case any Section, paragraph or part of this Section be for any reason
declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of last resort, every other
Section, paragraph or part shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1983 c.18; CBC 1985 7-3.11)
Editor’s note:
   The Commission shall notify, by mail, all property owners in the Historic
District of the establishment of the District. After passage of this Section,
and prior to establishment of the Bay Village Historic District Commission, the
Boston Landmarks Commission may assume the powers and responsibilities of the
Commission. Ord. 1983 Ch. 18 Section 2.
7-4   PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
7-4.1   Composition of Board.
   There shall be in the city a Department, known as the Parks and Recreation
Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the Parks and
Recreation Commission, consisting of an Officer, known as the Commissioner of
Parks and Recreation, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first
Monday of January following the next biennial municipal election at which a
Mayor is elected, who shall be Chair of the Board; one Assistant Commissioner
likewise appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday in
January following the next biennial election of which a Mayor is elected; and
five other Officers known as Associate Commissioners of Parks and Recreation,
appointed by the Mayor. As the term of any Associate Commissioner expires, his
or her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of four years. Any
vacancy in the Office of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor
for the unexpired term. The Associate Commissioners shall serve without pay.
(St. 1875 c. 185; Ord. 1954 c. 2 §§ 36, 37; Ord. 1970 c. 8 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961
(Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 100; Ord. 1982 c. 13 § 1; CBC 1985 7-
4.1; Ord. 1987 c. 2 § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss. 2-7.1
7-4.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Commissioner of Parks and Recreation shall exclusively have the powers,
and perform the duties, of a Department head with respect to the making of
contracts and the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and
indemnification of subordinates for the Department; but otherwise the Board
shall have the powers and perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or
imposed on Boards of Park Commissioners of cities in the commonwealth by
General Laws applicable to Boston and, except as aforesaid, shall also have the
powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Board of Park
Commissioners and Board of Recreation in existence immediately prior to the
taking effect of Chapter 2 of the Ordinances of 1954. The Board shall further
have the powers and perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed
on it by law. The Deputy Commissioner and the Assistant Commissioners of the
Parks and Recreation Department shall have such powers and perform such duties
as are, from time to time, proposed upon them by law or delegated to them by
the Commissioner.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 38; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 101; Ord.
1982 c. 13 § 2; CBC 1985 7-4.2; Ord 1987 c. 2 § 2; Ord. 1995 c. 1 § 2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 11-6.1
7-4.2A   Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioners to the Parks and
Recreation Department.
   There shall be one Deputy Commissioner and two Assistant Commissioners under
the charge of the Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department,
respectively known as the Deputy Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation
Department and the Assistant Commissioner for Internal Operations and the
Assistant Commissioner for Regional Administration. The Deputy Commissioner and
the Assistant Commissioners of the Parks and Recreation Department shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January
following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. Any
vacancy in the Office of Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner shall be
filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term.
(CBC 1985 7-4.2A; Ord. 1987 c. 2 § 3 [101a]; Ord. 1995 c. 1 § 1)
7-4.3   Control of Parks, Public Grounds, Baths, Beaches, Gymnasia and
Convenience Stations.
   The Board shall construct, improve, equip, supervise and regulate the use of
all parks, public grounds, playgrounds, baths and beaches formerly under the
charge and control of the Park Commissioners, the Superintendent of Public
Grounds or the Trustees of the Bath Department, or that hereafter may be placed
in charge of the Parks and Recreation Department, or that may be taken by
purchase or otherwise; and such other parks, playgrounds, public grounds, ways
or means for outdoor recreation as may be placed in the charge of the
Department by the city, the Board of Metropolitan Park Commissioners or the
legislature or in any other manner. The Board shall construct, improve, equip,
supervise and regulate the use of all gymnasia, bath houses or other means for
public recreation, now or hereafter provided by the city; and shall have the
care, custody and control of, and shall construct, all urinals and public
convenience stations upon park lands and public grounds.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 102; CBC 1985 7-4.3)
7-4.4   Control of Portions of Post Office, Dock and Faneuil Hall Squares.
   Until otherwise provided, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall improve,
maintain, keep in repair, govern and regulate the portion of Post Office Square
shown as “Existing Island” on Public Works Department (Survey Division) plan
No. K-558A entitled “City of Boston-Post Office Sq.-Boston Proper-May 20, 1957-
George G. Hyland, Commissioner of Public Works”, and also the portions of Dock
and Faneuil Hall Squares lying within the circle with radius of 15 feet and
area of about 707 square feet shown on Public Works Department Survey Division
plan No. L-8626 entitled “City of Boston-Dock Sq.-Boston Proper-June 20, 1955-
George G. Hyland, Commissioner of Public Works”.
(Ord. 1956 c. 5; Ord. 1957 c. 5; Rev. Ord. c. 19 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 103;
CBC 1985 7-4.4)
7-4.5   Care of Flag Poles.
   The Board shall care for, maintain and, when necessary, replace all flag
poles now or hereafter erected, and shall erect such other flag poles as may be
hereafter provided for, on the Common, Public Garden, parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, cemeteries, public grounds, public squares and other public places
controlled by the city, except public buildings, and shall provide the
necessary flags therefor and display them thereon in accordance with Section 1-
3.
(Ord. 1953 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 104; CBC 1985
7-4.5)
7-4.6   Music.
   The Board shall have the charge and control of the selection of public music
to be given for parades, concerts, public celebrations and other purposes under
appropriations of the Boston City Council, and shall designate the persons to
furnish the same.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 39; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 105; CBC
1985 7-4.6)
7-4.7   Establishing Protections for the City Tree Canopy.
   (A)   Purpose. This Subsection is intended to protect existing tree canopy
and replace lost tree canopy in the city, especially in environmental justice
communities where tree canopy is limited in the city.
   (B)   Applicability. The terms and provisions of this Subsection shall apply
to public shade trees and city property trees.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CALIPER. A measurement of the tree trunk diameter at 12 inches above the
ground.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT. A project funded through a non-recurring
expenditure that generally meets all of the following criteria: applicability
of M.G.L. Chapter 44, Sections 7 and 8 whereby the city may issue bonds to
finance the expenditure, the expenditure is for a facility or object or asset
costing $50,000 or more, and the facility will have a projected useful life of
ten years or more.
      CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An arborist certified by the Massachusetts Arborists’
Association (“MAA”) or the International Society of Arboriculture (“ISA”), or
any successor of either organization.
      CITY PROPERTY TREE. A tree located on property owned by the city,
including trees in city parks, trees on land under the ownership or
jurisdiction of the Boston Water and Sewer Commission, the Boston Housing
Authority, Boston Public Schools or the Boston Redevelopment Authority d/b/
a the Boston Planning and Development Agency and any of their successors, and
trees on the grounds of other city buildings. CITY PROPERTY TREES do not
include public shade trees, as defined by M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 1, which
are governed under M.G.L. Chapter 87, trees that are located on city owned
properties subject to a ground lease held by a non-city entity other than the
Boston Housing Authority, or trees on the grounds of buildings leased by the
city over which the city has authority under the terms of the lease.
      COMMISSION. The Parks and Recreation Commission.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department.
      CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (“CRZ”). An area equal to 1-foot radius from the base
of the tree’s trunk for each 1 inch of the tree’s diameter at 4½ feet above
grade.
      DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (“DBH”). The diameter of a tree trunk measured
in inches at a height of 4½ feet above the ground. For multiple trunk trees,
DBH is the aggregate diameter of the trunks.
      DEPARTMENT. The Parks and Recreation Department.
      INVASIVE PLANT. A plant that is both non-native and able to establish on
many sites, grow quickly and spread to the point of disrupting plant
communities or ecosystems, including, but not limited to, the trees listed on
the commonwealth’s prohibited plant list.
      PUBLIC SHADE TREE. A tree located in the public way, as defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 87, Section 1.
      REMOVAL. The intentional cutting down of any tree, including all other
acts which cause actual or effective removal through damaging, poisoning or
other direct or indirect actions that result in the death of the tree. This
includes, but is not limited to, excessive pruning and damage to a tree’s root
system.
      URBAN FOREST PLAN. The plan published in September 2022 by the Parks and
Recreation Department for the purpose of preserving and growing the city’s
urban tree canopy or any successor plan.
   (D)   Authority of the Commissioner. The Commissioner of Parks and
Recreation shall have the care and superintendence of all trees, plants and
shrubs belonging to the city; shall trim all shade trees standing in the street
so that they shall not interfere with public travel; shall carry out all orders
of the Commissioner of Public Works made after public notice and hearing to
remove trees standing in the street; shall, upon request of the Officer having
charge of the public lamps, trim in such manner as said Officer may require any
tree which interferes with the proper lighting of a street; shall cause all
statutes and ordinances for the protection of trees, shrubs and flowers in the
public grounds and streets to be strictly observed. The Commissioner, or his or
her designee, shall be deemed to be the official having charge of shade trees
within the meaning of M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 13 and may, at his or her
discretion, issue regulations and policies relevant to the implementation of
M.G.L. Chapter 87.
   (E)   Tree Warden. The Tree Warden shall be an employee of the city, under
the direction of the Department and designated by the Commissioner.
      (1)   The Tree Warden shall be qualified for the role as defined in
M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 106, and shall be a certified arborist in possession
of the ISA Tree Risk Assessment Qualification (“ISA TRAQ”) and a commonwealth
pesticide license, or any successor of either certification or licensing
program.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Subsection, the
Commissioner may designate the Tree Warden as the official having charge of
public shade trees within the meaning of M.G.L. Chapter 87. In addition to the
powers prescribed in M.G.L. Chapter 87, the duties and responsibilities of the
Tree Warden as designated by the Commissioner shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Posting notices and holding public hearings as needed for the
removal of city property trees as required by this Subsection;
         (b)   Granting, denying and/or attaching reasonable conditions to all
permits and approvals required under this Subsection;
         (c)   Maintaining and publishing a quarterly record of all written
requests to remove public shade trees submitted to and decisions made by the
Tree Warden under M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 2 and this Subsection, and all
removals carried out without a hearing being required by this Section, as well
as all enforcement actions. Such quarterly and annual reports shall be
completed and publicly posted not more than 30 calendar days after the end of
each calendar quarter and calendar year; and
         (d)   Enforcing this Subsection.
      (3)   The Tree Warden shall have the authority to remove trees or any
part of trees that are dead, dying, diseased or posing a risk to persons and/or
property, or if determined to be an invasive tree species, or for the
suppression of pests in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 5 and as
designated by the Commissioner. The Tree Warden’s determination to remove such
trees shall be made in accordance with the ANSI A300 Standard and best
management practices.
   (F)   Protection of public shade trees. No public shade tree shall be cut,
trimmed or removed unless the removal is approved in accordance with M.G.L.
Chapter 87 and this Subsection.
      (1)   Any person wishing to remove a public shade tree shall first submit
a written request in the manner prescribed by the Department and obtain written
approval, from the Tree Warden in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 87.
      (2)   In reviewing any written request to cut, trim or remove a public
shade tree, the Tree Warden shall consider tree health and size, current
growing conditions, proposed growing conditions of replacement trees,
alternative design or construction options and viability of tree survival after
any proposed construction is completed, in addition to public input pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 87 and any further criteria adopted in accordance with
Subsection 7-XX.11. Natural ecosystem functions of trees shall generally not
provide a basis for approval of a proposed removal.
      (3)   The Tree Warden may set conditions for any approved tree removal
such as use of a certified arborist or other qualified contractor; measures to
prevent damage to surrounding curbs, sidewalks and parkways; or requirements
for site clean-up and restoration.
      (4)   Any healthy public shade tree removed at the request of a property
owner or agent thereof and approved pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 3
must be replaced as required by M.G.L. Chapter 87 and this section. Removed
public shade trees may be replaced with other trees or with the replacement
value of the public shade trees if replacement is not feasible. This Section
shall not apply to trees that require removal, as determined by the Tree
Warden, due to being dead, dying, diseased or posing a risk to persons and/or
property; determined to be an invasive tree species; or for the suppression of
pests.
         (a)   Replacement trees must be located at or near the location from
which the tree was removed, and in no case shall trees planted in a different
neighborhood qualify as replacements. The replacement trees must be approved by
the Tree Warden in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 7 and any other
standards for size, species and planting as may be established by the
Department. Replacement trees shall be planted on a schedule as may be
stipulated in a permit for removal and must be warrantied and maintained by the
applicant for two years, or a longer period if the Tree Warden deems it
consistent with best management practices, before the replacement trees will be
accepted in the city’s street tree inventory.
         (b)   If replacement is not feasible based on the assessment of the
Tree Warden, the applicant shall pay a replacement fee equal to $550 per
caliper inch (“DBH”). The Department shall review and revise as necessary the
replacement fee every three years to be commensurate with the current costs of
street tree plantings. If replacement becomes feasible after a replacement fee
has been paid, the applicant shall be reimbursed based on the diameter of the
replacement tree at the time of planting. Any replacement tree shall be subject
to the warranty and maintenance provisions in Subsection 7-15.7(A). Fees shall
be directed to the Fund for Parks and Recreation or any successor fund.
   (G)   Protection of city property trees. This Section shall apply
exclusively to city property trees, as defined in division (C) above. Nothing
in this Section shall be construed to apply to public shade trees.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (G)(2) below, no person or entity,
including the Tree Warden and his or her deputies, shall cut, trim or remove
any city property tree without an opportunity for public comment at a duly
noticed and advertised public meeting or hearing. Eligible public meetings and
hearings shall include:
         (a)   For city capital improvement projects and non-city projects that
propose removal of city property trees, any project-related noticed public
meeting or hearing; provided that:
            1.   An initial tree survey was performed, including a conditions
assessment performed by a certified arborist, and such survey and assessment
are available for public review. The tree survey shall include tree size,
location and species of all trees three inches or greater in DBH, and shall be
submitted to the Tree Warden for review. Where available, a publicly procured
tree survey shall be the survey of reference for any discussion related to a
capital improvement project;
            2.   All public meetings at which removal of city property trees is
discussed were duly noticed and advertised. Such advertisement shall include
posting a notice on or around any city property trees proposed to be removed at
least one week before the public meeting; and
            3.   The public was provided a reasonable opportunity to provide
input at public meetings and/or beforehand in writing regarding tree(s) to be
cut down or removed.
         (b)   For any project that proposes removal of city property trees 3
inches or greater in DBH that is not otherwise subject to a public meeting or
hearing, a public hearing shall be held by the Tree Warden. Notice will be
provided in the same manner as for public shade trees, in accordance with
M.G.L. Chapter 87, Section 3, and include a brief statement of the reason for
the proposed action. Abutters located within 300 feet of the parcel where a
given city property tree is located may appeal decisions of the Tree Warden to
the Commission within 30 calendar days.
      (2)   No public hearing shall be necessary prior to:
         (a)   The removal by the Tree Warden, or his or her designee, of city
property trees measuring less than 3 inches in DBH 1 foot from the ground;
         (b)   The removal of any city property tree or any part of any city
property tree that:
            1.   Is dead, dying or diseased;
            2.   Poses a risk or hazard to persons and/or property;
            3.   Is determined to be an invasive tree species; or
            4.   Is necessary for the suppression of pests.
         (c)   Any removal pursuant to this division (G)(2) shall be based on
the determination of the Tree Warden or of a certified arborist in the employ
of the city in accordance with the ANSI A300 Standard and best management
practices.
         (d)   In the case of an emergency, such a determination shall not be
required if the delay would endanger public safety, services or property.
      (3)   Any removal of a city property tree shall be reported to the
Department which may, at its discretion, also request copies of assessments by
certified arborists created pursuant to division (G)(2) above.
      (4)   For projects that involve removal of city property trees, a
certified arborist shall be employed by the project contractor to review and
oversee tree protection and adjacent excavation within a development area,
including development of a Tree Protection Plan. Such a plan shall be in
compliance with any standards set by the Department and submitted to the Tree
Warden for review. If site conditions result in the need to remove any city
property trees in addition to any trees discussed in public meetings, the
proposed removal will be brought to the Tree Warden for review and
determination.
   (H)   Work affecting critical root zones. Regardless of whether a project
undertaken by the city or a private party would result in removal of public
shade trees or city property trees, any work within the CRZ, including, but not
limited to, excavation and construction work, shall comply with standards
developed jointly by the Department, the Boston Public Works Department and the
Boston Transportation Department and issued by the Department and/or Tree
Warden. Such standards shall be designed to safeguard CRZs so as to protect the
long-term health and safety of public shade trees, city property trees and the
public and surrounding buildings. Except in an emergency, such standards shall
apply to any city work in a CRZ and compliance with such standards shall be a
condition in permits issued by the city for excavation, construction or other
work in a CRZ. Such standards may consider complete or partial exemptions for
limited work such as milling of roadways and sidewalk maintenance.
   (I)   Open spaces managed for botanical, arboretum or conservation purposes.
The Arnold Arboretum shall remain exempt from all provisions of this Subsection
during such times as the December 20, 1883 indenture remains in force between
the city and the President and Fellows of Harvard College concerning the use of
the Arnold Arboretum as a public park. The Boston Public Garden and properties
maintained for natural conservation purposes, such as urban wilds, shall also
remain exempt from all provisions of this Subsection.
   (J)   Policies and regulations. The Department may adopt policies and
standards as necessary to implement this Subsection and make recommendations
for regulations as may be further necessary to implement this Subsection to the
Commission, pursuant to Subsection 7-4.8.
   (K)   Urban Forestry Advisory Committee. The Commissioner shall convene an
Urban Forestry Advisory Committee solely for the purpose of advising the
Commissioner with regards to implementation of the Urban Forest Plan. The
Advisory Committee’s purview shall be limited to implementation of the Urban
Forest Plan and exclude matters related to specific removals or implementation
of M.G.L. Chapter 87. The Advisory Committee shall have at least seven members.
All members of the Advisory Committee shall be appointed by the Commissioner.
The Advisory Committee shall be staffed by the Department. The Commissioner
shall prioritize participation from residents from historically marginalized or
under-canopied neighborhoods and invite participation from residents between
the ages of 14 and 17. The Commissioner may establish subcommittees, working
groups or any other forms of subordinate organization of the Advisory Committee
as may be necessary and useful to carry out its advisory functions. The
Advisory Committee shall be convened within the first six months following the
adoption of this Subsection and shall present an annual report of its
activities to the Commission.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 39; Ord. 1964 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 7; CBC
1975 Ord. T7 § 106; CBC 1985 7-4.7; Ord. 2023 c. 14)
7-4.8   Promulgation of Rules and Regulations, Fixing of Penalties.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall have the powers and duties
conferred or imposed by M.G.L. Chapter 45, Section 5 on Boards of Park
Commissioners of cities in the commonwealth and by Section 3 of Chapter 185 of
the Acts of 1875 on the Board of Park Commissioners created by said Chapter 185
to make rules and regulations for the government and use of the parks as
defined in M.G.L. Chapter 45, Section 1 of the parkways, playgrounds, streets,
structures and other premises under its charge, and to fix penalties for
breaches of such rules and regulations. Upon recommendation of the Department,
pursuant to the authority granted to it in M.G.L. Chapter 45, Section 5, the
Commission may adopt regulations as may be necessary to implement Subsection 7-
4.7 following a 30 calendar day public comment period.
(Ord. 1912 c. 10 § 8; Ord. 1969 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 8; CBC
1975 Ord. T7 § 107; CBC 1985 7-4.8; Ord. 2023 c. 14)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 45, Sections 1, 5; St. 1875 c. 185 § 3
7-4.9   Seats on Common and Public Garden for Use of Women and Children.
   The Board shall set aside and suitably designate seats on the Common and
Public Garden during the months of June, July, August and September of each
year for the exclusive use of women and of children under the age of 12 years.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 108; CBC 1985 7-4.9)
7-4.10   Restrictions on Park Frontages.
      (A)   No building or structure or any part thereof hereafter erected or
altered on land which abuts on and has an entrance into and is within a
distance of 100 feet from the following: The Fens (excepting Charlesgate East
and Charlesgate West from a point 100 feet north from their intersection with
Commonwealth Avenue to Charles River); Riverway, including Park Drive, from
Brookline Avenue to Beacon Street; Commonwealth Avenue, from Arlington Street
to a line drawn parallel to and 130 feet west of Charlesgate West, and from a
line parallel to and 135 feet south of the southerly line of Mt. Hood Road, as
extended across Commonwealth Avenue, to the Newton line; Jamaicaway; Olmsted
Park; Arborway; Columbia Road on the southerly side from Sumner Street to
Dorchester Avenue, and from Buttonwood Street to Marine Park, and on the
northerly side from Boston Street to Dorchester Avenue, and from Buttonwood
Street to Marine Park, South Boston; shall be used for a livery or public
stable or public garage, or for any mechanical, mercantile or manufacturing
purposes, nor, excepting churches and chapels, shall the extreme height of said
buildings or structures exceed 70 feet from the mean grade of the edgestone or
sidewalk on the front facing said parkway, exclusive of such steeples, towers,
domes, cornices, parapets, balustrades, sculptured ornaments, chimneys and
roofs as the Parks and Recreation Commission shall approve; and no roof on any
of the aforementioned buildings shall be used for laundry or clothes-drying
purposes; provided, however, that the provision restricting the extreme height
of buildings to 70 feet from the mean grade of the edgestone or sidewalk shall
not apply to buildings or structures or any part thereof now being or hereafter
erected or altered on the lot of land on Commonwealth Avenue known and numbered
as 2000 Commonwealth Avenue; and provided also that as to the lot of land to
the southwest corner of Commonwealth Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue the
prohibition of the use of building for mercantile purposes shall apply only to
so much of any building erected thereon as lies within 50 feet of the southerly
line of Commonwealth Avenue; and provided further, however, that the
prohibition of the use of building for mercantile purposes shall not apply to
the lot of land on Ipswich Street bounded by and making the northwest corner of
Charlesgate West and Boylston Street; provided further, however, that the
prohibition of the use of any said buildings and structures for a public garage
and the restriction on the extreme height of said buildings or structures to 70
feet shall not apply to the lot or land bounded by the Riverway, Francis Street
and Brookline Avenue; and provided further, however, that for a distance of 100
feet running westerly along Commonwealth Avenue from the northwesterly and
southwesterly corners of Commonwealth Avenue where it intersects with Arlington
Street, Berkeley Street, Clarendon Street and Dartmouth Street and for a
further distance of 47 feet running westerly along the southerly side of
Commonwealth Avenue from the line which is 100 feet westerly of the
southwesterly corner of Commonwealth Avenue where it intersects with Arlington
Street, for a total distance of 147 feet from such corner, the following
provisions shall apply, anything hereinbefore contained in this Section to the
contrary notwithstanding.
      (1)   Buildings on the corners at the Arlington Street intersection may
be built to a height not exceeding 285 feet to the top of the parapet or
cornice line and buildings on the northwesterly and southwesterly corners at
the Berkeley, Clarendon and Dartmouth Street intersections may be built to a
height not exceeding 200 feet to the top of the parapet or cornice line.
      (2)   Any building or portion of a building attached to or appurtenant to
a building erected or altered to a height in excess of 70 feet on any of the
aforementioned eight corners shall be built to a height not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   Steeples, towers, domes, balustrades, sculptured ornaments,
chimneys, roofs, aerials, antennae, elevator and mechanical penthouses, water
tanks, monitors or other structures normally built above the roof and not
devoted to human occupancy shall not be included in the computation of height
of buildings for purposes of divisions (1) and (2) above.
      (4)   The prohibition of use for mercantile purposes hereinbefore
contained in this Section shall not apply so as to prohibit in an apartment or
apartment hotel building such accessory uses as newsstand, barber shop, dining
room and similar services provided they are entered solely from within the
building and no signs advertising such accessory uses shall be visible on the
exterior of such building.
      (5)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered on
any of the aforementioned eight corners without prior written approval by the
Boston Redevelopment Authority of the exterior design of such building or
structure. The Authority’s review of such exterior design shall be concerned
with such matters as the exterior facade, exterior materials, signs, the
location of roof top structures described in division (3) above, building mass
and its placement on the site, the relation of the building to architectural
characteristics of Commonwealth Avenue and the Back Bay, and adequacy of
vehicular ingress and egress, if any. The purpose of this division (5) is to
ensure that new buildings shall, without limiting the dimensions and building
volume permitted herein and under applicable zoning regulations, be of
outstanding architectural character and harmonious with Commonwealth Avenue and
the Back Bay area.
   (B)   Provided further, as it relates to those certain lots located at the
intersection of Boylston Street, Ipswich Street, and Private Alley 938, known
and numbered as of the date of adoption of this section as 1161 Boylston
Street, 2 Charlesgate West, and 6 Charlesgate West, the following provisions
shall apply, anything contained in this Chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding:
      (1)   No building shall be erected or placed upon premises within 15 feet
of the easterly boundary of said lots where such property line abuts the Fens.
      (2)   Any building located in that portion of the lots that is within
67.5 feet from the sideline of Ipswich Street may be built to a height not
exceeding 280 feet.
      (3)   Any buildings located in that portion of the lots that is greater
than 67.5 feet from the sideline of Ipswich Street and greater than 50 feet
from the easterly boundary of said lots where such property line abuts the Fens
may be built to a height not exceeding 180 feet.
      (4)   Any buildings located in the remaining portion of said lots may be
built to a height not exceeding 70 feet.
      (5)   Steeples, towers, domes, railings/guardrails, balustrades,
parapets, sculptured ornaments, chimneys, flues, roofs, aerials, antennae,
elevator and mechanical penthouses, water tanks, screen walls, monitors or
other structures normally built above the roof and not devoted to human
occupancy shall not be included in the computation of height of buildings for
purposes of divisions (2) through (4) above. The height of buildings as used in
divisions (2) through (4) above shall be measured from the mean grade of the
edgestone or sidewalk on the easterly property line where such property line
abuts the Fens.
      (6)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered on
the lots described above without prior written approval by the Boston
Redevelopment Authority of the exterior design of such building or structure.
The Authority's review of such exterior design shall be concerned with such
matters as the exterior façade, exterior materials, signs, the location of roof
top structures described in division (5) above, building mass and its placement
on the site, the relation of the building to architectural characteristics of
the Fenway, and adequacy of vehicular ingress and egress, if any. The purpose
of this division (6) is to ensure that new buildings shall, without limiting
the dimensions and building volume permitted herein and under applicable zoning
regulations, be of outstanding architectural character and harmonious with the
Fenway area.
(Ord. 1923 c. 8; Ord. 1941 c.1; Ord. 1945 c. 13; Ord. 1953 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1954
c. 2 § 80; Ord. 1961 c. 9; Ord. 1962 c. 12; Ord. 1965 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961
(Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 105; Ord. 1978 c. 10; Ord. 1984 c.
38; Ord. 1985 c. 1 § 2; CBC 1985 7-4.10; Ord. 2024 c. 7 § 1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1983 c. 479; Ord. ss 9-3.3
7-4.11   Permission for Construction Near Parks or Parkways.
   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered within a
distance of 100 feet from park or parkway in the city, without permission in
writing having first been obtained from the Parks and Recreation Commission,
except that the foregoing shall not apply to any structure now being or
hereafter erected or altered on the lot of land known and numbered as 2000
Commonwealth Avenue.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 81; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. 71 § 110; Ord.
1985 c. 1 § 3; CBC 1985 7-4.11)
7-4.12   Setback Requirements.
   No building shall be erected or placed upon premises within the following
distances from the following parks and parkways: Riverway, from Fenway to
Huntington Avenue, 20 feet; Jamaicaway, from Huntington Avenue to Perkins
Street, 20 feet; Jamaicaway, from Perkins Street to Prince Street, 25 feet;
Arborway, from Prince Street to Washington Street, 25 feet; Arborway, north
side, from Washington Street to Franklin Park, 25 feet; Arborway, south side,
from Washington Street to Franklin Park, 10 feet; Olmsted Park along the
northwesterly boundary, from Chestnut Street to Francis Parkman Drive, 20 feet;
Park Drive on the Riverway, from Brookline Avenue to Boston and Albany
Railroad, 20 feet; Park Drive on the Riverway, from Boston and Albany Railroad
to Beacon Street, 15 feet; Commonwealth Avenue, from Arlington Street to Beacon
Street, 20 feet; the Fens, 20 feet (excepting Charlesgate East from Boylston
Street to the Charles River, and Charlesgate West from Boston and Albany
Railroad to the Charles River, and Boylston Street, south side, from Hemenway
Street to Fenway); Charlesgate East from Boylston Street to Ipswich Street, 10
feet; and Bolyston Street, south side, from Hemenway Street to Fenway, 15 feet;
provided that steps, windows, porticos and other usual projections appurtenant
to the front wall of a building shall be allowed where there is a reserved
space; that no projections in the nature of a bay window, corner bay, circular
front or octagon front, with the foundation wall sustaining the same (such
foundation wall being a projection of the front wall), shall be allowed
(excepting oriel windows above the first story on a street corner), unless any
horizontal Sections of such projections would fall within the external lines of
trapezoids, the sum of whose bases upon the rear line of the aforesaid space
does not exceed seven-tenths of the whole front of the building, and the base
of any one of which trapezoids does not exceed 18 feet, and whose side lines
make an angle of 45 degrees with the base; and each house in a block shall be
considered a separate building within the meaning of this Section; provided,
however, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to the lot of land on
Ipswich Street bounded by and making the northwest corner of Charlesgate West
and Boylston Street.
(Ord. 1949 c. 1; Ord. 1953 c. 6 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1981 c. 19 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord.
T7 § 111; CBC 1985 7-4.12)
7-4.13   Further Setback Requirements.
   No building shall be erected or placed upon premises within 20 feet from the
exterior line of parks and parkways, on the Dorchesterway and Strandway, except
from Preble Street to Old Harbor Street and except from P Street to Farragut
Road; provided that steps, windows, porticos and other usual projections
appurtenant to the front wall of a building are to be allowed in this reserved
space of 20 feet, subject to the following limitations, viz.: First, that no
projections of any kind (other than doorsteps and balustrades connected
therewith, and also piazzas projecting not more than 8 feet) shall extend more
than 5 feet from the rear line of the aforesaid space; second, that no
projections in the nature of a bay window, corner bay, circular front or
octagon front, with the foundation wall sustaining the same (such foundation
wall being a projection of the front wall), will be allowed (excepting oriel
windows above the first story on a street corner), unless any horizontal
Sections of such projections would fall within the external lines of
trapezoids, the sum of whose bases upon the rear line of the aforesaid space
does not exceed seven-tenths of the whole front of the building, and the base
of any one of which trapezoids does not exceed 18 feet, and whose side lines
make an angle of 45 degrees with the base; and each house in a block shall be
considered a separate building within the meaning of this limitation.
(Ord. 1939 c. 3; Ord. 1949 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 §
112; CBC 1985 7-4.13)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1938 c. 479 (Boston Building Code)
7-4.14   Smoking Prohibited in Parks.
   (A)   No person shall smoke in any public park, or other public place under
the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission.
   (B)   For the purposes of this Subsection, the term SMOKING shall include
inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted or vaporized substance in any manner or form, including marijuana
used for medical or any other purpose.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Commission may promulgate such rules and
regulations as reasonably necessary to implement this Section and ensure
compliance.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined $250 per
offense. Enforcement of this Section shall be by noncriminal disposition as
provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or by filing a criminal complaint at
the appropriate venue.
(CBC 1985 7-4.14; Ord. 2013 c. 10)
7-4.15   Use of Smokeless Tobacco and Other Tobacco Products Prohibited at
Sites for Professional and Amateur Baseball and Other Sporting Events.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person shall use
smokeless tobacco or any other tobacco product, at an event site for
professional, collegiate, high school or organized amateur sporting events.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Subsection, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EVENT SITE FOR PROFESSIONAL, COLLEGIATE, HIGH SCHOOL AND OTHER ORGANIZED
AMATEUR SPORTING EVENTS. The entire physical area in which such sporting events
occur. The EVENT SITE shall include all open, semi-open and enclosed spaces and
structures, including, but not limited to, playing fields, dugouts, bullpens,
training rooms, locker rooms, team bench areas, spectator seating areas,
pedestrian walkways, bathrooms, dining areas, vendor areas, offices,
recreational areas and stadium parking lots.
      PROFESSIONAL, COLLEGIATE, HIGH SCHOOL OR ORGANIZED AMATEUR SPORTING
EVENTS. Includes:
         (a)   Baseball, softball, football, basketball, hockey, track and
field, field hockey, lacrosse and soccer; and
         (b)   Any other event involving a game or other athletic competition
organized by a league or association of persons.
      SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Any product that contains cut, ground, powdered or
leaf tobacco and is intended to be placed in the oral or nasal cavity,
including, but not limited to, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco,
dissolvable tobacco products and snus.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Any product containing, made or derived from tobacco or
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated,
chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other
means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, pipe
tobacco, smokeless tobacco; and
            2.   Any electronic device that delivers nicotine or other
substances to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited
to, an electronic cigarette, cigar, pipe or hookah.
         (b)   TOBACCO PRODUCT includes any component, part or accessory of a
tobacco product as defined in division (a) above, whether or not sold
separately. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product that has been approved
by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco
cessation product or for other therapeutic purposes where such product is
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   (C)   Persons or entities having the authority to manage and control an
event site for professional, collegiate, high school and organized amateur
sporting events shall have primary responsibility for maintaining compliance
with this Section. The same shall post at every entrance a conspicuous sign
clearly communicating that the use of tobacco products, including smokeless
tobacco, is prohibited. Such signs shall also be posted in all dugouts,
bullpens, training rooms, locker rooms, press boxes, television and radio
broadcast booths and bathrooms.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of this Section may be fined $250
per offense. Enforcement of this Subsection shall be by noncriminal disposition
as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or by filing a criminal complaint
at the appropriate venue.
   (E)   The provisions of this Section shall be construed to supplement, and
impose prohibitions and requirements in addition to those in existing law. If
any provision of this Section is found to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not
affect the remaining provisions of this Section which can be implemented
without the invalid provision, and, to this end, the provisions of this Section
are declared to be severable.
   (F)   The prohibitions and requirements of this Section shall take effect on
April 1, 2016.
(CBC 1985 7-4.15; Ord. 2015 c. 7)
7-5   CEMETERY DIVISION.
7-5.1   Cemetery Division.
   The Commissioner of Parks and Recreation shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties provided by statue or ordinance to be exercised and
performed by the trustees of the Cemetery Division.
(Ord. 1920 c. 13; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 40; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord.
T7 § 113; CBC 1985 7-5.1; Ord. 2001 c. 2)
7-5.2   Regular Cemetery Hours.
   Regular cemetery hours are hereby established as 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.,
and all cemeteries and burial grounds currently used for interments shall be
open for interments and removals during those hours, Monday through Friday, and
from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. on Saturday, legal holidays excepted, and at
such times as the Commissioner may provide.
(Ord. 1981 c. 31; CBC 1985 7-5.2; Ord. 2001 c. 2)
7-5.3   Deeds for Lots; Restrictions.
   (A)   The Commission may determine the payments to be made for cemetery
lots, each burial vault and for perpetual care of said lots. The Commissioner,
after payment has been made to the Collector-Treasurer of the city, may execute
and deliver to the person or persons by or for whom the payment has been made,
a deed of the city conveying the exclusive right of burial of human dead in,
and of placing and maintaining tombs, cenotaphs and monuments, authorized by
the Commissioner, upon the lot or subdivision described in the deed, and shall
cause the deed to be recorded in the Office of the Parks and Recreation
Department. Every conveyance shall be subject to the following restrictions, or
such other regulations and restrictions relating to said cemetery or the lots
therein as shall, from time to time, be established by the city by ordinance.
   (B)   Restrictions are as follows.
      (1)   The owner shall use the lot only for the purpose stated in his or
her deed thereof.
      (2)   The owner shall not, for hire, deposit or allow to be deposited in
said lots the remains of any person.
      (3)   The owner shall not, without consent of the Commissioner or
designee, remove or allow to be removed, the remains of any person deposited in
said lot.
      (4)   The owner shall not, without the consent of the Commissioner, place
or allow to be placed on, or remove or allow to be removed from, said lot any
tomb, cenotaph or monument, or any hedge, tree, fence, curb or other ornament.
      (5)   The owner shall remove from the cemetery any unauthorized structure
or other thing on said lot the Commissioner may so remove at the expense of the
owner any such structure or other thing, or any tree, shrubs, flower, fence,
curb or other ornament not removed within the time stated in a notice from the
Commissioner, and the owner shall comply with all the rules and regulations of
the Commissioner relating to said cemetery or lot.
      (6)   The owner shall convey said lot only as a whole, and shall never
divide said lot, and if there are two or more owners, they shall designate in
writing one of their number to represent the lot, and while they neglect so to
do the Commissioner may designate the one to represent the lot.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 114; CBC 1985 7-5.3; Ord. 1990
c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2001 c. 2)
7-5.4   Agreement for Perpetual Care.
   The Commissioner, after payment to the Collector-Treasurer for the city, for
keeping in repair any lot in any cemetery or other burial ground owned by the
city, may execute and deliver to the person by or for whom the payment has been
made an agreement that the city shall keep the lot, and the structures and
grass thereon, in a good and neat condition forever, or during the period
specified in the agreement, so far as the same can be done by the expenditure
of the amount equal to 4% per year of the amount of money so paid from the time
of such payment. The Commissioner shall cause all such agreements to be
faithfully carried out.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 41; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 115; CBC
1985 7-5.4; Ord. 2001 c. 2)
7-6   FREEDOM TRAIL COMMISSION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T7; CBC 1985 7-6)
7-7   TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT.
Cross-reference:
   Commissioner appointed under St. 7 s. 200
7-7.1   Establishment of Department.
   There shall be in the city a Department, known as the Transportation
Department, as provided in the charter as that term is defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 5.
(Ord. 1960 c. 10 § 1; Ord. 1962 c. 9 §§ 4, 5, 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c.
24 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 200; CBC 1985 7-7.1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 5
7-7.2   Commissioner to Place Street Signs.
   The Commissioner of Transportation shall place and maintain in one or more
suitable, conspicuous places, to be selected by him or her, on each street in
the city, one or more signs showing the name of the street.
(Ord. 1962 c. 9 §§ 4, 5, 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 24 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord.
T7 § 201; CBC 1985 7-7.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 8-7.1; Ord. Section 11-6
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
7-7.3   Removal of Stolen Motor Vehicles.
   The Transportation Commission, by any rule or regulation adopted under this
Section, may authorize, with such limitations, if any, as the Commission may
think proper, the Police Commissioner of the city, or such sergeants or
Officers of higher rank in the Boston Police Department of the city as he or
she may, from time to time, designate, to remove to some convenient place,
through the agency of a person or persons in the employ of the Boston Police
Department, or by an independent contractor selected on the basis of
competitive bids invited by advertisement in the City Record, as said Police
Commissioner shall, from time to time, determine, any stolen or misappropriated
motor vehicle when the owner of record has requested such removal. Any rule or
regulation adopted under this Section shall be in no way inconsistent with
Chapter 263 of the Acts of 1929, as amended.
(Ord. 1973 c. 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 202; CBC 1985 7-7.3)
Cross-reference:
   st. 1929 c. 263; St. T11 § 25
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
7-7.4   Use of Traffic Control Signal Violation Monitoring System Devices.
   (A)   The city shall employ a traffic control signal violation monitoring
system along any portion of any ways within its control and shall impose a
penalty on the owner of a motor vehicle for failure by the operator thereof to
comply with the laws, codes, regulations, ordinances, rules and/or other forms
of legislation governing the traffic control signals at which a traffic control
signal violation monitoring system is located.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITATION. A notice upon which a Police Officer shall record an occurrence
involving all automobile law violations by the person cited. Each CITATION
shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in such form and such parts as
determined jointly by the Administrative Justice of the District Court
Department and the registrar.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning provided in M.G.L. Chapter 90,
Section 1, “motor vehicles”.
      OPERATOR. Shall have the meaning provided in M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section
1.
      OWNER. Shall have the meaning provided in M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 1.
      REGISTRAR. The registrar of motor vehicles.
      SCHEDULED ASSESSMENT. The amount of the civil assessment for a particular
civil motor vehicle infraction, as established jointly by the Chief Justice of
the District Court Department and the registrar. A SCHEDULED ASSESSMENT shall
not exceed the maximum assessment or fine established by law for each such
violation. A schedule of such assessments shall be visibly posted in each
Office of the Registry of Motor Vehicles and in the Clerk-Magistrate’s Office
of each District Court.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL VIOLATION MONITORING SYSTEM. An automated motor
vehicle sensor device installed to work in conjunction with a traffic control
signal which produces two or more wet-film photographs, two or more digital
photographs, two or more microphotographs or other recorded images of each
motor vehicle at the time it is used or operated in a manner that is in
violation of the traffic control signal at which the automated monitoring
system is located. The photographs, microphotographs or other recorded images
must record the rear of the motor vehicle, with at least one image recording
the motor vehicle passing through the intersection in violation of the traffic
control signal. Additionally, at least one of the images must clearly identify
the registration plate of the motor vehicle.
      VIOLATOR. A person, corporation, society, association or partnership
accused of an automobile law violation.
   (C)   (1)   No traffic control signal violation monitoring system shall be
utilized in such a manner as to take a frontal view photograph of the motor
vehicle that is in violation of the traffic control signal or to take a rear
view photograph of the vehicle above the bottom of the rear window.
      (2)   No photographs, microphotographs or other recorded images taken in
conformance with this act shall be discoverable in any judicial or
administrative proceeding other than a proceeding held pursuant to this
Section; and no photographs, microphotographs or other recorded images taken in
conformance with this Section shall be admissible in any judicial or
administrative proceeding other than in a proceeding to adjudicate liability
for such violation of this Section.
      (3)   Other than for purposes of enforcement of a violation of this
Section or for purposes of an owner defending a violation of this Section, no
private entity or individual may obtain photographs, microphotographs or other
recorded images or records taken pursuant to this Section.
      (4)   Photographic and other recorded evidence obtained through the use
of automated enforcement devices deployed as a means of promoting traffic
safety authorized herein within the city shall be destroyed within one year of
final disposition of any recorded event.
   (D)   (1)   The Parking Clerk designated or appointed by the city shall
supervise and coordinate the administration of traffic control signal violation
monitoring systems and the delivery of the photographic materials to the Boston
Police Department.
      (2)   After inspection of photographs, microphotographs or other recorded
images produced by a traffic control signal violation monitoring system and
delivered by the Parking Clerk, a Police Officer authorized to issue citations
for violations of traffic signals at the subject intersection shall issue a
citation in the manner provided in M.G.L. Chapter 90C, Sections 2 and 3.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Boston Police Department to deliver the
citation to the registered owner or owners of any motor vehicle identified in
any photographs, microphotographs, streaming video or other recorded images
produced by such device as evidence of a violation pursuant to this Section.
Such citation shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
a copy of the aforementioned recorded images showing the vehicle in violation
of the traffic signal; the registration number and state of issuance of said
registration number of the vehicle; the date, time and intersection location of
the violation; the specific violation charged; a schedule of fines for such
violation as established by the city or town; instructions for the return of
the notice; and text as follows: “This notice may be returned personally, by
mail, or by an Agent authorized in writing. A hearing before a magistrate of
the district court may be obtained upon the written request of the registered
owner in writing. Failure to obey this notice within 20 days of issuance will
result in the non-renewal or suspension of the license to drive and/or the
certificate of registration of the registered owner”.
      (4)   In the case of a citation involving a motor vehicle registered
under the laws of the commonwealth, such citation shall be mailed within 14
days of the violation, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, to the address of the
registered owner or owners as listed in the records of the registrar of motor
vehicles. In the case of any motor vehicle registered under the laws of another
state or country, such notice of citation shall be mailed within 21 days of the
violation, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, to the address of the registered
owner or owners as listed in the records of the official in such state or
country having charge of the registration of such motor vehicle. If said
address is unavailable, it shall be sufficient for the Boston Police Department
to mail the notice of citation to the official in such state or country having
charge of the registration of such motor vehicle.
      (5)   Any motor vehicle owner to whom a citation has been issued pursuant
to this act may admit responsibility for such violation and pay the fine
provided therein. Payment shall be made by mailing both payment and citation to
the registrar at the address indicated on the citation or by appearing before
the registrar during normal business hours, either personally or through a duly
authorized Agent. Payment by mail shall be made only by money order, credit
card or check made out to the registrar. Payment of the established fine and
any applicable penalties shall operate as a final disposition of the case.
Payment of the fine by one motor vehicle owner shall be satisfaction of the
fine as to all other motor vehicle owners of the same motor vehicle for the
same violation.
      (6)   Any owner to whom a citation has been issued may within 20 days of
the mailing of said citation request a hearing to contest liability, by making
a signed request on the back of the citation and mailing such citation to the
registrar at the address indicated on the citation, or by appearing before the
registrar during regular business hours, personally or through a duly
authorized Agent. Upon receipt of hearing request, in accordance with M.G.L.
Chapter 90C, Section 3, the registrar shall notify the Clerk-Magistrate in the
District Court in judicial district in which the violation occurred of such
request for a hearing. The Clerk-Magistrate shall send written notice of the
date, time and place of said hearing by first class mail to each registered
owner and the Police Officer who issued the citation. The hearing shall be
conducted by a Clerk-Magistrate or justice in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter
90C, Section 3. If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the violator is found
responsible, the Clerk-Magistrate or justice shall order the violator to pay an
assessment to the registrar, which shall not exceed the scheduled assessment
for the infraction.
      (7)   (a)   Any owner to whom a citation has been issued shall not be
liable for a violation under the provisions of this Section:
            1.   If the violation was necessary to allow the passage of an
emergency vehicle;
            2.   If the violation was necessary in order to protect the
property or person of another;
            3.   If the violation was incurred while participating in a funeral
procession;
            4.   If the violation was incurred during a period of time in which
the motor vehicle was reported to the Police Department of any state, city or
town as having been stolen and had not been recovered prior to the time the
violation occurred;
            5.   If the operator of the motor vehicle was operating the motor
vehicle under a rental or lease agreement and the owner of the motor vehicle is
a rental or leasing company and has complied with the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 90, Section 20E; and
            6.   If the violation was necessary to comply with any other law or
regulation governing the operation of a motor vehicle at the intersection.
         (b)   An owner disputing a citation under this Section shall, within
20 days, provide the registrar with the citation with a signed request for a
hearing on the back and a signed affidavit stating:
            1.   The reason for disputing the violation;
            2.   The full legal name and address of the owner of the motor
vehicle;
            3.   The full legal name and address of the operator of the motor
vehicle at the time the violation occurred;
            4.   The names and addresses of all witnesses supporting the
owner’s defense and the specifics of their knowledge; and
            5.   Where applicable, signed statements from witnesses.
      (8)   The consequences for an owner to whom a citation has been issued
who fails to pay the fine provided for in said notice in accordance with
division (D)(5) above, or fails to appear for a requested hearing in accordance
with division (D)(6) or (7) above, or fails to receive a favorable adjudication
of said citation at a hearing, or fails to pay the assessment or fine imposed
by the Clerk- Magistrate or justice in division (D)(6) above, are as follows:
Upon notification of such failure to the registrar, the registrar shall notify
the violator that after the expiration of 30 days from the date of the mailing
of notification until the fine or assessment and any applicable late fees are
paid, the registrar shall not issue or renew or may suspend such owner’s
license to operate a motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle registration.
   (E)   (1)   For each violation the owner or owners of a vehicle shall be
fined the maximum scheduled assessment for the infraction of a red light
violation.
      (2)   All penalties may be increased by up to 33% if said fine remains
unpaid in excess of 30 days after a citation has been issued.
      (3)   A penalty imposed for a violation shall not be deemed a criminal
conviction.
   (F)   The compensation paid to the manufacturer or vendor of the traffic
control signal monitoring system deployed as a means of promoting traffic
safety as authorized herein shall not be based upon the number of traffic
citations issued or any portion or percentage of the fine generated by such
citations. The compensation paid to such manufacturer or vendor of the
equipment shall be based upon the value of such equipment and the services
provided or rendered in support of the traffic control signal monitoring
system.
   (G)   If any of the provisions of this Section, or the application of such
provision to any persons or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder
thereof, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other
than those wherein it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.
(CBC 1985 7-7.4; Ord. 2007 c.12 §§ 1 - 7)
7-8   MOTOR VEHICLE MANAGEMENT BUREAU.
7-8.1   Division Established; Duties.
   (A)   A Division to be known as the Motor Vehicle Management Bureau (herein
referred to as “MVMB”) shall be established in the Property Management
Department.
   (B)   The MVMB shall be responsible for the acquisition by purchase or
otherwise and for the assignment, maintenance and disposal for all motor
vehicles owned by, or leased, loaned or otherwise provided to the city,
excepting vehicles owned or leased by the Boston Fire or Police Departments,
which Police or Fire Department vehicles shall not be used except for the
purposes of said Department.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.1; Ord. 1996 c. 6)
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance No. 1996 c. 6 which transferred the Motor Vehicle Management
Bureau to the Property Management Department further provided that the Motor
Vehicle Management Bureau may be further transferred to the Public Works
Department at the direction of the Mayor.
7-8.2   Director, Additional Staff.
   (A)   The MVMB shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the
Commissioner of Property Management in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 31.
   (B)   Additional staff of the MVMB shall be appointed in accordance with
M.G.L. Chapter 31 in like manner by the Commissioner of Property Management
when the Commissioner of Property Management deems the workload warrants such
additional personnel.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.2; Ord. 1996 c. 6)
7-8.3    Requests.
   All Department requests for new vehicles or allocation or assignment of
existing vehicles or optional equipment for such vehicles shall be received by
the Director of the MVMB and either approved or disapproved by said Director.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.3)
7-8.4   Motor Vehicle List.
   The Director annually as of April 1 shall compile a list of all said city
motor vehicles owned, leased or otherwise used by the city denoting the
Department to which assigned, the vehicle’s make, model, engine size, optional
equipment, registration and the individual assigned to the vehicle. Said list
shall be kept on file at the MVMB and be open for public inspection during the
regular business hours, and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Boston
City Council on or before the following April 15.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.4)
7-8.5   Off Duty Use.
   No such city owned, leased or otherwise used vehicles shall be assigned or
allowed to be used by any employee when such person is off duty or not on
authorized commutation. Persons authorized to use vehicles for commutation
shall be recommended by respective Department Heads who shall certify in
writing, giving specific reasons, why said Department Head finds the use of
such vehicles for commutation purposes to be in the city’s and public’s
interest.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.5)
7-8.6   Garaging of Vehicles.
   Except by specific written authorization of the Director, no vehicle is to
be garaged outside of the city on a regular basis.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.6)
7-8.7   Rules and Regulations.
   In order to implement this Section the Director shall be empowered and
directed to make and publish rules and regulations consistent herewith.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33); CBC 1985 7-8.7
7-8.8   Credit Card Use.
   No City Agency or Office shall be authorized to use credit cards for
purchase of fuel or automotive supplies and services for said vehicles unless
expressly so authorized by ordinance.
(Ord. 1979 c. 33; CBC 1985 7-8.8)
7-9   ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
7-9.1   Commissioner; Appointment, Term, Compensation and the Like.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Commission, known as the Animal Control
Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, the Police
Commissioner and the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, or their respective
designees, the Animal Control Officer or the President of the Domestic
Charitable Corporation, from time to time, performing by contract the duties of
Animal Control Officer in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 151, or
the designee of such Animal Control Officer, or of the President of such
corporation, and nine persons appointed by the Mayor from the public at large
each for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next
biennial election at which a Mayor is elected. At least one of the persons so
appointed by the Mayor shall be a registered veterinarian authorized to
practice veterinary medicine in the commonwealth. Any vacancy in the Office of
a member of the Commission shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation but shall be
reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties. Members of the Commission are hereby classified as special municipal
employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the members of
the Commission as Chair. The Commission shall elect a Vice-Chair by majority
vote. The Mayor shall designate a full-time executive secretary of the
Commission. Subject to the availability of an appropriation therefor, the
Commission may appoint such additional Officers, Agents or servants as may be
necessary to enable it to perform its duties.
(Ord. 1972 c. 16 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 300; CBC 1985 7-9.1; Ord. 2019 c. 4 §
2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.1; Ord. ss 5-5.6; Ord. ss 14-5.1; M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
151; M.G.L. Chapter 268A
7-9.2   Powers and Duties of Commission.
   The Animal Control Commission shall meet at least once each month; shall
coordinate to the fullest extent possible the work of all public and private
Agencies concerned with animal care, protection and control; shall effect an
ongoing dialogue and exchange of views between and among such Agencies; may
conduct either independently or in conjunction with any appropriate person or
Agency, public or private, such educational programs relating to animal control
as it shall deem necessary or desirable; shall collect and publish statistics
relating to the animal population of the city; shall determine the city’s needs
in connection with animal control; shall prepare and may, from time to time,
amend a long-range plan to meet such needs; shall prepare estimates of the cost
of executing such plan and the several component measures thereof; shall
recommend to the appropriate Boards and Officers of the city such actions as
may be necessary for the implementation of such plan; and shall monitor the
carrying out of such actions.
(Ord. 1972 c. 16 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 301; CBC 1985 7-9.2)
7-9.3   Animal Spay and Neuter Clinic.
   The Animal Control Commission shall establish and maintain a clinic in the
city at one or more locations for the purpose of offering to residents the
services commonly called spaying and neutering of animals, and which shall be
known as the Boston Animal Spay and Neuter Clinic. The clinic shall be under
the charge of a Director, who shall be a registered veterinarian authorized to
practice veterinary medicine in the commonwealth. Fees for the services of the
clinic shall be fixed by ordinance. Any person seeking such service shall in
writing certify his or her ownership of the animal, shall in writing agree to
hold harmless the Director and employees of the clinic and the city for any
death of or injury to such animal. Any dog not licensed shall be licensed prior
to being retrieved by its owner. Any animal not retrieved by its owner may be
disposed of by the Director in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter
140, Section 151A except by use of firearms.
(Ord. 1975 c. 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 302; CBC 1985 7-9.3)
7-10   ESTABLISHING FOR A LIMITED TIME A SPECIAL COMMISSION TO BE KNOWN AS THE
ALLSTON/BRIGHTON COMMONWEALTH AVENUE COMMISSION.
7-10.1   Commission Established.
   There shall be within the city a Commission to be known as the Allston/
Brighton Commonwealth Avenue Commission. The said Commission shall consist of
the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking, the Commissioner of Parks and
Recreation, that member of the Boston City Council for the time being elected
from the district which includes the greatest portion of wards 21 and 22 and
the General Manager of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, or their
respective designees, all ex officio, and one person appointed by the Mayor
from two nominees of the Brighton Historical Society, one person appointed by
the Mayor from two nominees of the Allston Civic Association, one person
appointed by the Mayor from two nominees of the Brighton Allston Improvement
Association, one person appointed by the Mayor from two nominees of the South
Allston Neighborhood Association, one person appointed by the Mayor from two
nominees of the Circle/Reservoir Association, one person appointed by Mayor
from two nominees of the Allston-Brighton Community Beautification Council, one
person appointed by the Mayor from two nominees of the Corey Hill Neighborhood
Association, one person appointed by the Mayor from two nominees of the
Washington Heights Citizens Association and one person appointed by the Mayor
from two nominees of the Boston Society of Landscape Architects. Those members
appointed by the Mayor shall be classified as special municipal employees for
the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(CBC 1985 7-10.1; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 1)
7-10.2   Organization of Commission; Meetings.
   The said Commission shall organize and choose from among its membership a
Chair and Secretary, to serve as such at the pleasure of the Commission.
Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses
necessarily incurred. The Commission shall meet at least monthly, the time and
place of such meetings to be set so as to maximize the ability of persons
living and working in Allston and Brighton to participate in Commission
deliberations.
(CBC 1985 7-10.2; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 2)
7-10.3   Duties of the Commission.
   The said Commission shall make investigations, inquiries and studies
relative to the preservation and improvement of that part of Commonwealth
Avenue lying west of the intersection of Brighton Avenue and within the city,
including amenities pertaining to the buildings abutting the said avenue and
the first two blocks of intersecting streets. The said avenue and buildings are
hereinafter referred to as the ‘study area’. In their work the said Commission
shall be mindful of the original plan of Frederick Law Olmsted for the avenue.
(CBC 1985 7-10.3; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 3)
7-10.4   Purpose.
   The Commission shall examine sources of funding, private, public and
charitable, for improvements to the study area, and shall develop a plan for
the area and a strategy for execution of the same, which may include changes in
zoning, use patterns, height restrictions, traffic patterns, installation of
trees, plantings, benches, historical markers, lighting fixtures and all manner
of street furniture, but this listing shall not be exclusive. In so doing, the
Commission shall consult with, and coordinate its efforts with, all public
Agencies involved with planning, zoning, transportation, traffic and similar
activities within the study area.
(CBC 1985 7-10.4; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 4)
7-10.5   Cooperation with Other Departments; Boards and Agencies.
   All Departments, Boards and Agencies of the City shall cooperate with the
Commission in its activities. No Department, Board or Agency of the City shall
take any action, except those immediately necessary to preserve the public
health, safety or order, within the study area until it has given notice
thereof to the Commission and allowed reasonable time and opportunity for the
Commission to comment thereupon. Action as used herein shall mean any physical
change and any so-called ‘sign-off’ allowing another public body to make such a
change.
(CBC 1985 7-10.5; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 5)
7-10.6   Annual Report.
   The said Commission shall, at least annually and upon its dissolution, make
a report to the Mayor and Boston City Council with respect to its activities
and the study area.
(CBC 1985 7-10.6; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 6)
7-10.7   Expiration.
   This Section shall expire three years following the day the first of those
members appointed by the Mayor shall take the required oath of Office.
(CBC 1985 7-10.7; Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 7)
7-11   CLEAN CITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be within the City a Commission, to be known as the Clean
City Commission, consisting of the Commissioners of the Public Works
Department, Inspectional Services Department and Parks and Recreation
Commission and the Office of Service Management, or their respective designees,
and not less than five others, each appointed by the Mayor, to represent the
business community, and neighborhood, civic and park enhancement organizations
located in the city.
   (B)   The Commission shall annually elect from its membership a Chair and a
Secretary.
   (C)   All members shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor without
compensation and shall be deemed special municipal employees.
   (D)   The said Commission shall evaluate public and private efforts to
improve the cleanliness of the city and comparable efforts in other cities,
and, from time to time, make reports and recommendations concerning programs to
combat unlawful dumping, littering, improper storage and disposal of waste and
like matters. The Commission shall operate as a separate Agency of the city,
but shall make reports only through the Director of Administrative Services.
The said Director shall make available to the Commission reasonable clerical
assistance.
   (E)   Subject to acceptance of the same by the Mayor and City Council, the
said Commission shall have authority to expend gifts, grants and grants in aid
for the purposes given.
(CBC 1985 7-11; Ord. 1987 c. 3 § 1)
7-12   ENVIRONMENTAL ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be within the city a Commission, to be known as the
Environmental Ordinance Enforcement Commission which shall consist of the
Commissioners of the Public Works Department, Inspectional Services Department,
Parks and Recreation Commission, Boston Police Department, the Real Property
Commission and the Office of Service Management, or their respective designees,
ex officio, and, a representative of the Office of Neighborhood Services
appointed by the Mayor to serve at his or her pleasure.
   (B)   Members shall serve without compensation and shall be deemed special
municipal employees.
   (C)   The Commission shall concern itself with the enforcement of
ordinances, rules and regulations which have been designated for enforcement
under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, and shall study the
enforcement of other ordinances, rules and regulations of the city which are
liable for designation for alternative non-criminal enforcement. The Commission
shall exist as a separate budgetary unit of the city, attached to the Office of
Neighborhood Services, but shall report to the Mayor.
   (D)   A copy of each report and study made by the Commission shall be filed
with the City Clerk and transmitted by the Clerk to the City Council.
   (E)   The Commission shall, subject to acceptance and/or appropriation by
the Mayor and Boston City Council expend such monies (including gifts, grants
and grants in aid) as are made available, for the purposes designated.
   (F)   The Commission shall, subject to approval of the Mayor, employ a
person to be known as the Director of Ordinance Enforcement, who, together with
the Director’s Agents employees and designees, and together with all others
authorized in the ordinances, shall have authority to enforce all of the
Environmental Ordinances of the city under the provisions of said Section 21D,
or by criminal complaint. Such of these persons as the Police Commissioner
shall appoint as Special Police Officers shall have, in addition, authority to
enforce all violations authorized by the said Police Commissioner.
   (G)   Any such person doing the same or similar work in another Department
or Agency who is transferred to the Commission shall retain all benefits,
seniority, sick leave, vacation leave and the like, as if their service were
continuous in the prior Department or Agency.
(CBC 1985 7-12; Ord. 1987 c. 3 § 2)
7-13   RECYCLING PROGRAM.
7-13.1   Recycling Program Established.
   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8H, there is hereby established in
the city a recycling program the requirements of which are set forth herein.
(CBC 1985 7-13.1; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 1)
7-13.2   Purposes.
   The purpose of the recycling program is to define goals and mechanisms for
maximizing the percentage of Boston’s residential solid waste which is
recycled. The program will further seek to facilitate greater recycling levels
within the commercial sector, and identify ways in which the city’s purchasing
policies can encourage recycling.
(CBC 1985 7-13.2; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 2)
7-13.3   Definitions.
    For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALUMINUM. Any can, container, foil wrapping or product composed solely of
aluminum.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Public Works Department of the city or
that person’s designee.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department of the city.
   DISTRICT. Waste collection districts as defined by the Commissioner.
   GLASS CONTAINER. Any bottle, jar or other container composed of glass, but
not including containers composed of ceramic.
   MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITY. A processing plant that receives as input a
stream of recyclable material separated from municipal solid waste.
   METAL CAN. Any container composed of metal, including, but not limited to,
any such container commonly used for beverages and food.
   PAPER. Any non-soiled paper, including, but not limited to, newspaper, mixed
paper and corrugated cardboard.
   PLASTIC CONTAINER. Any bottle, carton, lid or tube composed of rigid
plastic.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials that have the potential to be recycled and which are
not commingled with solid waste or contaminated by significant amounts of toxic
substances, including, but not limited to, aluminum, glass containers, metal
containers, paper, plastic containers and yard waste.
   RECYCLING. To recover materials or by-products:
      (1)   Which are to be reused;
      (2)   Which are to be employed as an ingredient or a feedstock in an
industrial or manufacturing process to make a product; or
      (3)   Which are to be employed in a particular function or application as
an effective substitute for a commercial product or commodity (other than as a
substitute for fuel). RECYCLE does not mean to recover energy from the
combustion of a material.
   RESIDENTIAL OWNER. A person who owns or is in control of residential
premises.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Any house, building or other structure used for
dwelling purposes which receives waste collection service from the city.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTESTREAM. All solid waste which the city is responsible for
collecting from residential premises.
   SET OUT CONTAINER. Any container composed of weatherproof material such as
plastic or metal as defined by the Commissioner.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse or other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material, resulting from residential or
commercial activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, leaves, tree and brush cuttings and similar material.
(CBC 1985 7-13.3; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 3)
7-13.4   Recycling Mechanisms.
   (A)   On a schedule to be determined by the Commissioner, residential
premises designated by the Commissioner shall be separate specified recyclables
from all other solid waste that they deposit at the curb or other pickup
locations for collection and shall place said recyclables in set-out containers
for collection. The Department shall arrange for the collection of all said
recyclables either through requirements of the regular district waste
collection contract or through such other arrangements as the Commissioner
determines to be most advantageous to the city.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall develop and implement alternative recycling
programs for residential premises where, in the judgment of the Commissioner, a
curbside collection program is not feasible for either a specified geographic
area or for specific classes of residences.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall develop public education programs to maximize
the separation and collection of recyclables. The Department may implement
these programs in conjunction with the Boston Public Schools, Neighborhood
Councils, community groups, private schools, businesses, labor organizations
and other interested or affected parties. The education programs may include
flyers, print and electronic media, public events or any other promotional
techniques which the Commissioner determines will assure the greatest level of
compliance with the provisions of this Section. Such programs shall begin at
least one month before the effective date of separation requirements for
specified residential premises, or a month before the start of operation of any
alternative programs.
   (D)   The Commissioner may adopt rules and regulations to further the
effective implementation of recycling programs.
   (E)   The Commissioner shall determine the most cost effective and
appropriate means to bring about the construction and operation of a materials
recovery facility or other similar facility to ensure adequate capacity for
processing recyclables collected by the Department and its contractors under
this Section. The Commissioner shall report the initial findings of this
evaluation to the Mayor not later than July 1, 1991; and shall at that time
seek whatever authority may be necessary to authorize the procurement and/or
construction of such facility. The Commissioner may, from time to time, conduct
additional evaluations of this nature in light of changing market conditions
and shall report in a timely manner to the Mayor the results of such
evaluations.
   (F)   The Commissioner shall ensure that all separation and collection
programs and all contracts for separation, collection and disposal are
consistent with all commonwealth and federal solid waste laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, 310 CMR 19:017: “Waste Bans”.
   (G)   The city-wide targets as defined throughout this Section shall
describe the total amount of recycling of the residential wastestream occurring
within the city at the relevant point in time. This shall include the results
obtained through recycling of returnable plastic, glass and metal containers
which are returned for deposit. The Commissioner shall prepare by July 1, 1991
a standard methodology consistent with that of the commonwealth of Commonwealth
Department of Environmental Protection for quantifying the recycling results
for returnable containers, and shall utilize that methodology annually in the
preparation of reports required by this Section on the results of the recycling
program.
(CBC 1985 7-13.4; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 4)
7-13.5   Recycling Targets and Contracts.
   (A)   Through the mechanisms described above, the Department shall ensure
that at least 28% by weight of the residential wastestream is recycled city-
wide during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1992; at least 38% during the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1995; and at least 50% during the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 1998; assuming that the Department is able to secure access
to a commonwealth funded or private materials recovery facility or facility or
facilities with equivalent capabilities by the applicable date. At a minimum,
the Department shall institute various separation and collection programs
geographically located in each of its districts to recycle aluminum, newspaper,
plastic containers, metal cans, glass containers and yard waste in order to
meet the first city-wide target. The Department shall implement such programs
with the goal of maximizing participation and the percentage of the wastestream
by weight that is recycled within each district. In areas where participation
and diversion rates are lower than the city-wide rates, the Department shall
focus extra resources to develop alternative educational and collection
approaches in order to attempt to bring such rates up to the city-wide rates.
In order to meet the later targets, the Department may add additional
recyclables as the Commissioner determines their recycling to be feasible.
   (B)   If, after diligent effort to secure access to a materials recovery
facility or similar facility or facilities providing the required recycling
capacity, said capacity remains unavailable as of the first of the above target
dates, the Commissioner shall notify the Mayor of the lack of capacity. Upon
such notification, the Department shall nevertheless ensure that at least 20%
by weight of the residential wastestream is recycled city-wide during the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1992. The Department shall continue its efforts
to secure access to the required recycling capacity as described above; if it
remains unavailable, upon notification to the Mayor, the Department shall
nevertheless ensure that at least 25% by weight of the residential wastestream
is recycled during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1995; and 36% during the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1998. If, at any time between these dates, access
is secured to the required recycling capacity, the higher target specified in
division (A) above shall apply.
   (C)   The Commissioner is hereby authorized, in conformity with all
applicable laws, to seek requests for proposals, and to advertise for, award
and supervise contracts in such a way as to further the effectiveness of the
recycling program. In carrying out said powers and duties, the Commissioner
shall consider taking and is authorized to take the following actions:
      (1)   Preparing a model request for proposals and issue contracts
pursuant to this Section which shall mandate that any company contracted to
collect the city’s solid waste shall recycle a specified percentage of waste
which the Commissioner determines is necessary to meet the targets defined in
division (A) or (B) above, if applicable. The Commissioner may set lower
targets for a contractor in cases where the Department has instituted other
recycling programs in that contractor’s district;
      (2)   Including in the model request for proposals monetary or other
incentives for exceeding the percentage of solid waste that a contract
guarantees shall be recycled and monetary or other penalties for failing to
meet the percentage of solid waste that a contract guarantees shall be
recycled;
      (3)   Electing, for a district where the Department has instituted
special arrangements to recycle one or more materials which effectively remove
those materials from the waste being handled by the district waste collection
contractor, to reduce the recycling percentage requirement for that contract by
an amount not to exceed a reasonable projection of the diversion percentage to
be attained by the special arrangements. Such percentage shall be based either
on actual results obtained in a previous year or on a specifically documented
calculation of projected results which shall specify the assumed percentage of
the overall wastestream, the participation rate and the actual materials
capture rate. The Department shall maintain a database of total waste
quantities and amounts diverted by recycling programs in order to support the
above calculations when they are necessary;
      (4)   Not extending a contract or making a new contract for solid waste
collection beyond July 1, 1992 unless the extension includes the applicable
provisions of divisions (C)(1) through (C)(3) above;
      (5)   Including in such contracts and extensions as described herein
provisions which allow the Commissioner to terminate the contract with,
withhold payment to or reduce the payment to a company if said company fails to
satisfy the provisions of that contract regarding recycling requirements. The
Commissioner may establish a rate of monetary or other incentive or penalty
based on the amount above or below the recycling percentage guaranteed by a
contract; and
      (6)   Prohibiting any company found by a court or Agency with
jurisdiction to be in violation of the environmental protection provisions of
any commonwealth law from contracting with the city for collection or removal
of solid waste or recyclables for a period of up to three years following the
finding.
(CBC 1985 7-13.5; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 5)
7-13.6   Enforcement and Incentives.
   (A)   No residential owner who participates in the city’s recycling program
shall place non-recyclable materials in set out containers. The city may
discontinue its pick up of any such owner’s recyclables following two written
warnings. When a residential owner demonstrates compliance with this Section to
the Commissioner by placing recyclable materials in set out containers, the
city shall resume collection of said owner’s recyclables.
   (B)   The Commissioner may develop alternative enforcement actions where, in
the judgment of the Commissioner, such action is appropriate.
   (C)   The Commissioner may create an incentive program for participation in
the recycling program, including, but not limited to, a “recycling lottery”, in
which individuals or neighborhoods as defined by the Commissioner are awarded
cash prizes or other awards for correctly separating solid waste in accordance
with the recycling program’s needs as defined by the Commissioner.
(CBC 1985 7-13.6; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 6)
7-13.7   Reporting Requirements.
   (A)   The Commissioner shall prepare an analysis of the recycling program
including, but not limited to, rates of participation and volume and weight of
the components of the waste stream successfully recycled, and the net cost of
the city’s solid waste management system. The Commissioner shall prepare by
July 1, 1991 a methodology for calculating and presenting the city’s net cost
of its solid waste management. Such analysis shall be reported to the Mayor
within two months after the end of each fiscal year, once the city-wide
recycling program has begun. Such reports shall list the actual percentage of
recycling attained for each district for the past year, including contractor
performance as measured against the targets established pursuant to Subsection
7-13.5(C)(1), the results of any alternative programs, and the city’s net cost
for its solid waste management system, as well as projections of each of these
items for the coming year.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall prepare proposals for increasing participation
in the recycling program and shall include an analysis of the merits of user
fees, mandatory participation and sanctions.
(CBC 1985 7-13.7; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 7)
7-13.8   Commercial Recycling.
   The Director of the Environment Department shall, within six months of the
effective date of this Section, adopt and implement regulations to ensure a
substantial increase in the quantity of office waste paper recycled in Boston.
The Director shall also research the feasibility of expanding this program to
other recyclable materials and make recommendations as necessary to the Mayor.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 8)
7-13.8.1   Commercial Recycling Requirements for Waste Haulers.
7-13.8.2   Purpose.
   It is the intent of this Section to maintain and expand Boston’s recycling
initiative by ensuring that all businesses have access to recycling programs.
Requiring haulers to offer recycling to commercial businesses will increase
accountability for solid waste disposal. This will result in increased
compliance with the commonwealth’s waste ban by haulers and businesses and a
reduction of unnecessary disposal of usable raw materials.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.2; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.3   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Public Works of the city, or such person
as said Commissioner may delegate.
   HAULER. Any public or private solid waste collector.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials that are restricted from disposal and transfer for
disposal at solid waste facilities in the commonwealth pursuant to 310 CMR
19.017. These waste ban items include: leaf and yard waste, tires, white goods,
metal, glass and plastic containers, paper and cathode ray tubes, asphalt
pavement, brick, concrete, metal and wood.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.3; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.4   Permitted Haulers to Comply.
   As a precondition to receiving a permit from the Commissioner pursuant to
Section 23-1, all haulers shall offer all commercial solid waste customers the
services of collecting and properly disposing of recyclables. The Commissioner
shall require all haulers to sign an affidavit certifying that they are in
compliance with this Section as a condition of said permitting application
process.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.4; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.5   Alternative Procedure.
   If any hauler affected by this Section is unable to offer recycling services
to all commercial customers, said hauler may, in the alternative, petition the
Commissioner to approve an alternative procedure for offering recyclable
services. The Commissioner shall have the discretion to grant a permit pursuant
to Section 23-1 upon determining that the hauler is unable to comply with
Subsection 7-13.8.4 and said hauler has established an adequate alternate
recycling service procedure, including, but not limited to, establishing a
partnership with another hauler to offer recycling services to commercial
customers.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.5; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.6   Education.
   (A)   All haulers affected by this Section shall provide its commercial
customers with informational materials detailing its recycling services and
educational materials regarding recycling.
   (B)   Upon filing for an initial or renewal hauler permit, all haulers
affected by this Section shall provide the Commissioner with an annual report
that contains the following information for the preceding fiscal year:
      (1)   The total number of commercial customers;
      (2)   The number and total percentage of commercial customers that
utilize the hauler’s recycling service;
      (3)   The total amount of solid waste tonnage collected and the total
amount of recyclables collected; and
      (4)   A description of its customer education materials related to
recycling services.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.6; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.7   Enforcement.
   The Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have
the authority to issue regulations for the purpose of enforcement.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.7; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.8   Penalties.
   Failure to offer recycling services under Subsection 7-13.8.5, failure to
obtain alternate procedure approval from the Commissioner under Subsection 7-
13.8.5, or failure to comply with the education requirements in Subsection 7-
13.8.6, shall result in a $150 fine for the first violation, $300 for the
second violation, and on a third violation the hauler’s permit will be revoked
by the Commissioner. A hauler may appeal to the Commissioner to have the permit
re-issued and the Commissioner shall re-issue said permit once the hauler
provides sufficient proof that it is in compliance with the provisions of this
Section. Nothing in this Section shall interfere with the Commissioner’s
authority to suspend or revoke a permit for any other reason allowed by law.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.8; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.9   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections or the application of these Sections to
any person or circumstance shall be held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the validity of the remainder of these Sections and the
applicability of such Sections to other persons or circumstance shall not be
affected thereby.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.9; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.8.10   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective March 1, 2009.
(CBC 1985 7-13.8.10; Ord. 2008 c. 14)
7-13.9   Purchasing Policy.
   The City Purchasing Agent shall, within six months of effective date of this
Section research the feasibility of revising procurement specifications in
order to establish a preference for those products containing recycled
materials, wherever feasible, and shall recommend appropriate purchasing policy
amendments to the Mayor.
(CBC 1985 7-13.9; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 9)
7-13.10   Fiscal Constraints.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to require the city to increase
its net costs incurred for solid waste management.
(CBC 1985 7-13.10; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 10)
7-13.11   Severability.
   If any provisions of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision or Subsection shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions or Subsections of this
Section, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 7-13.11; Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 11)
7-13A   ACCESS TO RECYCLING PROGRAMS AND SERVICES—LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
WITH MORE THAN SIX UNITS.
7-13A.1   Purpose.
   These Sections supplement the recycling program established in Subsection 7-
13.1 et seq. and pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8H by expanding the
residential recycling program to include access for the residents of large
residential buildings. Large residential buildings have been designated by the
Commissioner as residential buildings with more than six units.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.1; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A residential building with more than six units.
   OWNER. A person who owns or is in control of a large residential building.
   RECYCLING CART. Any container ranging in size from 30 to 90 gallons that is
composed of weatherproof material such as plastic or metal and that is clearly
marked and/or identifiable as a container for recyclables; the Department
commonly refers to certain recycling carts in widespread use throughout the
city as “toters”. RECYCLING CARTS shall be used only for the containment and
collection of recyclables. RECYCLING CARTS are hereby specifically exempted
from the fee and application provisions of Section 23-2 and Section 23-11.
   RECYCLING COORDINATOR. The person holding the position, or its equivalent,
of Large Apartment Building Recycling Coordinator at the Department.
   RECYCLING GUIDE. That publication in its most current form, or its
equivalent, published by the Department pursuant to Subsection 7-13A.5.
   RESIDENT. A lawful inhabitant of a large residential building.
   SET OUT CONTAINER. The same definition as promulgated in Subsection 7-13A.3
(p) and is commonly referred to as “blue box”.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.2; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.3   Access to Recycling Programs and Services.
   (A)   Owners shall provide to residents access to the recycling programs and
services offered by the city to the extent herein required.
   (B)   Upon the Department’s or the Recycling Coordinator’s receipt of a
request from a resident, the Recycling Coordinator shall notify the owner of
its receipt thereof. An owner, within 30 days of receipt of the notice from the
Recycling Coordinator, shall provide access to the recycling programs and
services of the city by installing and maintaining an adequate number of
recycling carts in a common area of the premises and within a reasonable
proximity not to exceed 350 feet from a point of egress of a large residential
building and as close as practicable to the current waste/trash removal
dumpsters or containers for the large residential building; if an owner
determines that the installation of recycling carts is impracticable, then the
owner shall contact the Recycling Coordinator for generation and/or approval to
supply residents with access through alternative measures including, but not
limited to, providing a set out container to each unit in the large residential
building. If the Recycling Coordinator is unable to generate and/or approve
alternative measures as aforesaid, then the owner may seek an exemption
pursuant to Subsection 7-13A.4.
   (C)   Nothing in this Section prohibits owners from supplying residents with
set out containers.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.3; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.4   Owners Unable to Comply; Exemption.
   (A)   (1)   An owner may submit to the Commissioner a detailed letter
requesting exemption from the requirements of these Sections within 30 days of
the date of final determination under Subsection 7-13A.3 regarding alternative
measures to providing access to the recycling programs and services. Said
detailed letter shall include:
         (a)   The owner’s reasons for the request for exemption;
         (b)   The specific steps the owner has taken to evaluate the owner’s
large residential building and its premises regarding compliance with these
Sections; and
         (c)   The specific steps the owner has taken in an attempt to comply
with the provisions of these Sections.
      (2)   The Commissioner shall, within 30 days of the receipt of the
request, respond in writing to the owner by:
         (a)   Rejecting the request and directing the specific steps the owner
must take to ensure compliance with these Sections; or
         (b)   Approving the request.
      (3)   The decision of the Commissioner is final and may be appealed only
to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any large residential building from which the city does not collect
trash is exempt from the requirements of these Sections. Nothing in these
Sections prohibits such a large residential building from voluntarily providing
access to the city’s free recycling services.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.4; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.5   Recycling Guides.
   (A)   The Department shall modify its recycling guide titled “Curbside
Recycling for Boston For All Residents in Households with 1-6 Units” to
reference and include large residential buildings. Each owner shall ensure that
a recycling guide is posted in a clearly visible location as close as
practicable to:
      (1)   The main entrance to the large residential building; or
      (2)   To the installed recycling carts. Owners shall ensure that a
recycling guide is delivered to each unit in the large residential building
contemporaneously with installation of the recycling carts. An owner shall
deliver a recycling guide to each resident within 14 calendar days of the onset
of the resident’s residency.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.5; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.6   Inspections, Enforcement and Penalties.
   (A)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department and any designees thereof shall have the authority to inspect,
enforce and impose penalties under this Section.
      (1)   Inspections.
         (a)   Authority. In order to properly carry out its respective
responsibilities under this Section and to ensure that the public health,
safety and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and
unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized:
            1.   To examine or survey at any reasonable time the premises of
all large residential buildings; and
            2.   With prior notice to the owner or the owner’s authorized
representative, to enter, examine or survey the large residential building.
         (b)   Systematic area inspections. The Inspectional Services
Department is authorized to develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic
area-wide inspections of large residential buildings, their premises and the
recycling facilities thereon.
         (c)   Interference with inspection.
            1.   If an owner or an owner’s authorized representative, having
been notified pursuant to division (A)(1)(a) above, knowingly impedes,
inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to the
large residential building or the premises where inspection is authorized by
this Section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of
competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of
the site and apprises said owner or owner’s authorized representative
concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the
justification for the inspection, and may seek the assistance of the Police
authorities in presenting said warrant.
            2.   If a resident or other person knowingly impedes, inhibits,
interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to the large
residential building or the premises where inspection is authorized by this
Section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent
jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site
and apprises said resident or other person concerning the nature of the
inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for the inspection,
and may seek the assistance of the Police authorities in presenting said
warrant.
            3.   Nothing in these Subsections authorizes the Inspectional
Services Department to inspect any areas other than the indoor common areas of
a large residential building or the outdoor premises of the large residential
building.
      (2)   Violation. Violations of this Section include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   The failure to provide access to the recycling programs and
services in accordance with Subsection 7-13A.3;
         (b)   The failure to post a recycling guide in accordance with
Subsection 7-13A.4 or to deliver a recycling guide to residents in accordance
with Subsection 7-13A.4;
         (c)   The failure to comply with the requirements of this Section; and
         (d)   The interference with an inspection, including inspections
conducted a pursuant to a validly issued inspection warrant, pursuant to
division (A)(1)(c) above.
      (3)   Service of notice of violation. Notice of violation shall be served
on the owners in the following manner:
         (a)   Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process;
         (b)   By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a
copy of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the
violator;
         (c)   By sending a copy of the notice of violation by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, if within the commonwealth; or
         (d)   If the last and usual place of abode of the owner is unknown or
outside the commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a
conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least
three out of five consecutive days in one or more newspapers of general
circulation within the city.
      (4)   Administrative hearings.
         (a)   Right to hearing. Any person upon whom a notice of violation has
been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by
filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter with the
Inspectional Services Department within seven days after the day the notice of
violation was served.
         (b)   Hearing notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional
Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time and place of
the hearing in writing.
         (c)   Time for hearing. The hearing shall commence within 30 days
after the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in
which the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the
petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.
         (d)   Hearing of petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence
and to show why the notice of violation should be modified or withdrawn. An
official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to
the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period
specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.
         (e)   Final decision after hearing; failure to comply with final
order.
            1.   Within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice
of violation and shall inform the petitioner in writing of its decision and the
reasons therefor. If the Department sustains or modifies the notice of
violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted in
the original notice of violation or in the modification.
            2.   If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the
Inspectional Services Department within seven days after the notice of
violation has been served or if after a hearing the notice of violation has
been sustained in any part, then each day’s failure to comply with the notice
of violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an
additional and separate violation.
      (5)   Judicial appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the
Inspectional Services Department with respect to a notice of violation or any
other order issued under these Sections by the Inspectional Services
Department, may seek relief in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided
by the laws of the commonwealth.
      (6)   Penalties.
         (a)   Failure to comply with Section. Failure to comply with the
provisions of this Section shall result in the imposition of penalties by the
Inspectional Services Department. For any failure to comply, the Inspectional
Services Department shall have the authority to issue a written notice of
violation and seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction
instructing the owner to comply with the requirements of this Section.
Penalties shall be administered only in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
         (b)   Notice of violation. The Inspectional Services Department shall
respond to an owner’s first failure to comply by issuing a notice of violation
to an owner which shall provide an owner with 30 days to correct the violation.
         (c)   Failure to comply with notice of violation. An owner who fails
to comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to these
Sections by the Inspectional Services Department or its duly appointed Agents
or representatives shall be subject to a fine of not less than $150 per
violation per day and not more than $300 per violation per day.
         (d)   Injunctive relief. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services
may, after an administrative hearing, seek an injunction from a court of
competent jurisdiction instructing an owner to comply with a notice of
violation.
         (e)   Interference after inspection warrant presented. An owner who
refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and
free access or neglects or fails to provide entry and free access to every part
of the large residential building where inspection is sought under these
Sections after an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in
accordance with these Sections, shall be subject to a fine not less than $150
and not more than $300 per day.
         (f)   Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this
Subsection may be enforced pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D.
      (7)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner and the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations necessary to effect and enforce this Section.
      (8)   Delegation of authority. The Commissioner and the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services shall have the authority to delegate enforcement of this
Section to any City Department authorized to enforce public safety, health or
environmental laws and regulations.
   (B)   Nothing in these Sections shall prevent the Commissioner from
developing incentive programs directed at owners for the successful and timely
implementation of actions designed to provide residents with access to the
city’s recycling programs and services.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.6; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.7   Annual Report.
   In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the recycling programs of the
city and of large residential building in the city, the Department shall
annually prepare a report regarding the city’s recycling programs, including
the tonnage of recycled materials collected by the Department and the tonnage
of trash collected by the Department. This annual report shall specifically and
separately detail the recycled tonnage collected from large residential
buildings. An original of this annual report shall be filed with the Boston
City Clerk and with the Boston City Council no later than March 31 of each
calendar year.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.7; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.8   Implementation.
   The provisions of Section 7-13A shall be effective commencing on January 1,
2003. Nothing in this Section prohibits an owner from voluntarily providing
recycling access to the residents of the owner’s large residential building
and/or contacting the Recycling Coordinator in order to develop a site-specific
recycling access strategy addressing the needs of the owner’s large residential
building and/or otherwise taking steps in preparation for compliance with the
provisions herein. An owner that provides recycling access to the residents of
the owner’s large residential building that fulfills the requirements of this
Section prior to January 1, 2003 and maintains conforming recycling access
after January 1, 2003 shall be exempted from the provisions of these Sections.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.8; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-13A.9   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 7-13A.9; Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-14   INDOOR AIR QUALITY.
7-14.1   Indoor Air Quality Unit.
   There is hereby established within the Environmental Health Office of the
Department of Health and Hospitals or its successors an Indoor Air Quality Unit
which is charged with monitoring the quality of air:
   (A)   In buildings to which the public has access which are not subject to
monitoring by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OSHA”) for air quality standards substantially as contemplated by its
Proposed Indoor Air Quality Rule (59FR15968);
   (B)   In all public school buildings within the city;
   (C)   In all other buildings owned or leased by the city or any Agency or
instrumentality thereof (except foreclosed real estate); and
   (D)   In any other structure in Boston where there is an apparent risk to
health likely to be caused or aggravated by poor air quality.
(CBC 1985 7-14.1; Ord. 1996 c. 10)
7-14.2   Air Quality in School Buildings.
   (A)   No less than twice each year, the Indoor Air Quality Unit shall
inspect each school building, and, using as guidelines the then current
recommendations and standards of OSHA and the Environmental Protection Agency,
shall ensure that the air quality in each such building is appropriate to the
maintenance of good health, with special regard to airborne pollutants in
concentrations harmful to children. Each inspection shall include:
      (1)   Electronic environmental air quality monitoring;
      (2)   Visual inspection;
      (3)   Review of health complaint surveys, heating, ventilation and air
conditioning evaluations, building inspection records; and
      (4)   Such other procedures as building history and inspection of similar
structures suggest.
   (B)   In the event an inspection shall detect a situation likely to cause
ill health, the Unit shall forthwith make written record thereof and report the
same to the person in charge of the building, to the Superintendent of Schools
and to the School Committee.
   (C)   The Unit shall cooperate with city and school officials and employees
to take appropriate action to cure the situation and minimize adverse effect on
the public health.
   (D)   In the event subsequent inspection, or other facts known to the Unit,
indicate a failure to act with expedience toward correction of the situation,
the Unit shall give immediate report to the Board of Health and Hospitals or
its successors and to the Mayor.
(CBC 1985 7-14.2; Ord. 1996 c. 10)
7-14.3   Air Quality in Other Public Buildings.
   (A)   The Unit shall, from time to time, and when requested by the Officer
having charge of a city owned or occupied buildings, or any other building upon
request of the owner, inspect buildings owned or leased by the city, and, using
as guidelines the then current recommendation and standards of OSHA and the
Environmental Protection Agency, shall ensure that the air quality in each such
building is appropriate to the maintenance of good health. Each inspection
shall include:
      (1)   Electronic environmental air quality monitoring;
      (2)   Visual inspection;
      (3)   Review of health complaint surveys, heating, ventilation and air
conditioning evaluations, building inspection records; and
      (4)   Such other procedures as building history and inspection of similar
structures suggest.
   (B)   In the event an inspection shall detect a situation likely to cause
ill health, the Unit shall forthwith make written record thereof and report the
same to the person in charge of the building, and to the Mayor.
   (C)   The Unit shall cooperate with city officials and employees to take
appropriate action to cure the situation and minimize adverse effect on the
public health.
   (D)   In the event subsequent inspection, or other facts known to the Unit,
indicates a failure to act with expedience toward correction of the situation,
the Unit shall give immediate report to the Board of Health and Hospitals or
its successors.
(CBC 1985 7-14.3; Ord. 1996 c. 10)
7-14.4   Annual Report.
   The Unit shall make annual report of its doings, including a listing of
inspections made and any recommendations it may have for legislative action, to
the Mayor, who shall convey a copy to the Boston City Council and to the Board
of Health and Hospitals or its successors, which Board shall maintain the same
as a public record.
(CBC 1985 7-14.4; Ord. 1996 c. 10)
7-15   BOSTON COMMEMORATION COMMISSION.
7-15.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to establish the Boston Commemoration
Commission. The Commission is herein tasked with developing and executing a
plan to mark upcoming historical anniversaries, including, but not limited to,
the United States Sestercentennial (250th) in 2026 and the 400th anniversary of
the founding of the City of Boston in 2030, while investing in inclusive and
robust historical resources and preservation tools. The intent of this Section
is to ensure that the many diverse community voices and organizations who
steward Boston’s history, and the City Departments with responsibilities
related to historical narrative, exhibits, curricula, archives, preservation
and event-planning, are all able to work together to deepen the public
opportunities to engage with that history, in collaboration with commonwealth
and federal partners. This Section affirms that our diverse and intertwined
community histories are of great value to the city and its residents, that
historical tourism should be a driver of true shared prosperity, that inclusive
and honest historical memory is a crucial public good worthy of attention and
resources and that communities all over the city should have the tools and
resources to research, preserve, acknowledge and celebrate their history.
(CBC 1985 7-15.1; Ord. 2021 c. 19 § 1)
7-15.2   Establishing the Boston Commemoration Commission.
   (A)   The Boston Commemoration Commission will include members appointed by
the Mayor, including:
      (1)   One member who represents a tourism-related Boston business outside
downtown;
      (2)   One member who represents a tourism-related Boston business in the
downtown area;
      (3)   One member from the Boston Chamber of Commerce;
      (4)   One member from The Boston Foundation;
      (5)   One member from the commonwealth’s Competitive Partnership;
      (6)   Two members who are archivists and are seeking to preserve a
diverse history;
      (7)   One member who is a digital archivist or preservation specialist
seeking to preserve a diverse history;
      (8)   One member from a non-profit institution with major Boston
historical holdings;
      (9)   One member representing a Neighborhood Historic District;
      (10)   One member involved in local history in a neighborhood without a
Historic District;
      (11)   One member affiliated with the North American Indian Center of
Boston;
      (12)   One member from the Massachusett Tribe at Ponkapoag;
      (13)   One member from the Museum of African American History;
      (14)   One member with an expertise in local Asian American and Pacific
Islander (“AAPI”) history;
      (15)   One member with an expertise in local Indigenous history;
      (16)   One member with an expertise in local Black history;
      (17)   One member with an expertise in local European immigrant history;
      (18)   One member with an expertise in local Latinx history;
      (19)   One member with an expertise in local women’s history;
      (20)   One member with an expertise in local LGBTQ+ history;
      (21)   One member with an expertise in local intellectual history;
      (22)   One member from the commonwealth’s Historical Society;
      (23)   One member from the Boston Preservation Alliance;
      (24)   One member from Revolutionary Spaces;
      (25)   One member from the Greater Boston Convention and Visitors Bureau;
      (26)   One member who is a hospitality worker;
      (27)   One member of the Boston Legislative Delegation;
      (28)   One member of the Boston City Council;
      (29)   The following members, ex officio: Three members from National
Parks of Boston, representing the Boston National Historic Park, the Boston
African American National Historic Site and the Boston Harbor Islands National
Recreation Area; and
      (30)   And the following people or their designees, ex officio:
         (a)   Chief of Economic Development;
         (b)   Chief of Arts and Culture;
         (c)   Director of the Mayor’s Office of Tourism, Sports and
Entertainment;
         (d)   The Superintendent of the Boston Public Schools;
         (e)   The City Archivist;
         (f)   The City Archaeologist;
         (g)   President of the Boston Public Library;
         (h)   Chief of Environment, Energy, and Open Space;
         (i)   Executive Director of the Landmarks Commission;
         (j)   Chair of the Landmarks Commission;
         (k)   Director of the Boston Planning and Development Agency; and
         (l)   Collector-Treasurer, as steward of the Community Preservation
Trust Fund.
   (B)   (1)   The Boston Commemoration Commission will include, but not be
limited to, the following Subcommittees:
         (a)   Events, Exhibits and Trails;
         (b)   Timelines, Archives and Curricula; and
         (c)   Legislation and Preservation Tools.
      (2)   All members of the Boston Commemoration Commission shall be
assigned to at least one Subcommittee. The Boston City Council member shall sit
on any Subcommittees on which the Councilor requests membership.
   (C)   The city shall assign the equivalent of two full-time staff: one half-
time staff person to coordinate the Commemoration Commission as a whole, and
one half-time staff person to coordinate each of the three above-enumerated
subcommittees, with these staff persons to be drawn from such City Departments
as may be most appropriate.
   (D)   The Boston Commemoration Commission’s full meetings will be open for
any organizational member of Revolution 250 and/or of commonwealth- level
Commissions focused on commemorating the commonwealth’s history to attend.
   (E)   The Boston Commemoration Commission members shall serve without
compensation. Members will elect a Chair for the Boston Commemoration
Commission every year with a simple majority vote. Members of each subcommittee
will elect a subcommittee Chair every year with a simple majority vote.
   (F)   The Boston Commemoration Commission will exist until June 30, 2031.
   (G)   The Boston Commemoration Commission shall first convene within 60 days
of the effective date of this Section. Should there be a vacancy or resignation
in any of the above positions, the Mayor will appoint a new representative from
another equally relevant Office or organization within 90 days. Members of the
Boston Commemoration Commission will remain members as long as the Commission
exists or unless voted to be removed by a majority vote of the Commission.
(CBC 1985 7-15.2; Ord. 2021 c. 19 § 1)
7-15.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Boston Commemoration
Commission.
   (A)   The primary responsibility of the Boston Commemoration Commission is
to advise the Mayor and relevant Departments on making Boston’s celebrations of
significant upcoming historic anniversaries, as well as Boston’s preservation
policies and tools, robust and inclusive of all history, including the history
of Indigenous, Black, immigrant, LGBTQ+, women and other historically
marginalized communities. The Boston Commemoration Commission will advise the
Mayor and relevant Departments on the following:
      (1)   Commemorating upcoming historical anniversaries that are
significant to Boston;
      (2)   Collaborating with commonwealth-level commemoration and historic
commissions;
      (3)   Ensuring that the city applies in a timely and robust fashion for
any available federal or commonwealth funds;
      (4)   Recommending how to collaborate with commonwealth-level and
regional commemoration efforts;
      (5)   Fulfilling the goals of its subcommittees, as detailed below; and
      (6)   Determining whether any other subcommittees should be added
relevant to its primary responsibility.
   (B)   The goals of the Events, Exhibits and Trails Subcommittee include
producing recommendations for events and exhibits that educate participants on
the diverse history of Boston and determining how to promote historic
anniversaries and acquire related public and private funds to benefit tourism,
historic sites and economic development in Boston, including by promoting
minority, women and LGBTQ+ owned businesses, and by supporting the formation of
historical trails and tours that extend beyond the downtown area. Within the
first year of convening, the Subcommittee shall produce an initial actionable
plan of next steps in support of commemorative events to fall between 2022 and
2026, to be approved by vote of the full Commission and presented to the City
Clerk.
   (C)   The goals of the Timelines, Archives and Curricula Subcommittee
include recommending a timeline of significant historical events in Boston to
comprise the focus of the Commemoration Commission’s work over the coming
years; planning content for exhibits throughout the city that educate
participants on the diverse history of Boston; determining how to save, process
and highlight Boston’s rich archival resources, including through digital
archives; and incorporating archival history and commemorative activities into
the Boston Public School Curriculum. The Subcommittee will also recommend how
collections can be made accessible and inclusive, as well as recommend how the
archival capacity of all communities could be supported and expanded. Within
the first six months of convening, the Subcommittee shall produce an initial
recommended timeline of key occasions to be the focus of the Commission’s
commemorative work through December 31, 2030, to be approved by vote of the
full Commission and presented to the City Clerk.
   (D)   The goals of the Legislation and Preservation Tools Subcommittee
include proposing a plan for a complete city-wide historic building survey that
would inventory Boston’s built history across all of its neighborhoods,
recommending reforms for the Article 85 process, suggesting adjustments to
better align funds from the Community Preservation Trust with the aims of
equitable city-wide historic preservation and putting forward other policy
changes that would enable the city to have a more comprehensive, equitable and
effective historic preservation process. Within the 18 months, the Subcommittee
shall produce an initial report summarizing such proposals, to be approved by
vote of the full Commission and presented to the City Clerk.
   (E)   This Commission will meet quarterly. Additional meetings may be held
to work on specific issues as they relate to the overall work of this
Commission. The Commission will file a bi-annual (every six months) progress
report with the Clerk to update the city and community on their progress. Any
plans, timelines and proposals presented by the Commission to the Clerk may be
adjusted and refined by vote of the Commission over the course of its
existence.
   (F)   Subcommittees will meet monthly or more often as needed. The
Commission subcommittee members will serve without compensation.
   (G)   At any point, the Commission may be called upon to testify to and
update the Boston City Council on their progress.
   (H)   If the Commission determines necessary, the Commission is authorized
to continue meeting beyond June 30, 2031; provided the Commission continues to
provide bi-annual reports to the Clerk.
   (I)   The Commission reports submitted to the Clerk and any documents
pertaining to the governing of the Commission will be publicly available.
(CBC 1985 7-15.3; Ord. 2021 c. 19 § 1)
CHAPTER VIII: DEVELOPMENT
Section
8-1   PUBLIC FACILITIES DEPARTMENT
   
8-1.1   Power to Designate Community Schools
   
8-1.2   Community School Program
   
8-1.3   Community School Councils
   
8-1.4   Maintenance and Repair Powers of School Committee
8-2   BOSTON URBAN HOMESTEAD PROGRAM
   
8-2.1   Urban Homestead Program
   
8-2.2   Powers and Duties of Committee
   
8-2.3   Application for Lease
   
8-2.4   Decisions by Committee
   
8-2.5   Consent of Committee
   
8-2.6   Cooperation by Committee, Building Commissioner and Commissioner of
Housing Inspection
   
8-2.7   Preference in Selecting Prospective Purchasers
   
8-2.8   Urban Homesteading Under the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974
8-3   BOSTON REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
8-4   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION
8-5   DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
   
8-5.1   Composition of Board
   
8-5.2   Executive Director; Employees
   
8-5.3   Powers and Duties
8-6   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY
8-7   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT COMMISSION
   
8-7.1   Composition of Board; Powers and Duties
   
8-7.2   Effective Date
8-8   CREATING THE EMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC POLICY ADMINISTRATION
   
8-8.1   Creation of EEPA; Appointment of Administrator
   
8-8.2   Authority of Administrator
   
8-8.3   Purpose
   
8-8.4   Use of Funds
8-9   ESTABLISHING THE BOSTON RESIDENTS JOBS POLICY
   
8-9.1   Definitions
   
8-9.2   Boston Residents Jobs Policy Office
   
8-9.3   Compliance
   
8-9.4   Boston Employment Commission
   
8-9.5   Training Program
   
8-9.6   Fines
   
8-9.7   Independent Agencies
   
8-9.8   Sanctions
   
8-9.9   Boston City Council Review
   
8-9.10   Hiring Discretion
   
8-9.11   Severability
8-10   DISRUPTION MITIGATION PLAN FOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
   
8-10.1   Definitions
   
8-10.2   Disruption Mitigation Plan
   
8-10.3   Disruption Impact Fund
   
8-10.4   Severability
8-11   NAMING OF MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS
   
8-11.1   Naming of Municipal Buildings
8-12   COMMUNITY PRESERVATION COMMITTEE
   
8-12.1   Establishment
   
8-12.2   Definitions
   
8-12.3   Purpose
   
8-12.4   Membership, Appointment, Term
   
8-12.5   Powers and Duties
   
8-12.6   Rules and Regulations
   
8-12.7   Fiscal Accountability
   
8-12.8   Applicability
8-13   ESTABLISHING THE EQUITABLE REGULATION OF THE CANNABIS INDUSTRY IN THE
CITY
   
8-13.1   Purpose
   
8-13.2   Definitions
   
8-13.3   Boston Equity Program
   
8-13.4   Boston Cannabis Board
   
8-13.5   Applicability
   
8-13.6   Application Requirements
   
8-13.7   Community Outreach, Host Community Agreements
   
8-13.8   Criteria
   
8-13.9   Fees
   
8-13.10   Inspections and Enforcement
   
8-13.11   Boston Equity Fund
   
8-13.12   Conditions
   
8-13.13   Transferability of License
   
8-13.14   Revocation and Expiration
   
8-13.15   Registry
   
8-13.16   Boston City Council Updates
   
8-13.17   Severability
8-14   PLANNING DEPARTMENT
   
8-14.1   Purpose
   8-14.2   Appointment, Powers and Duties of the Department’s Chief of
Planning
   
8-14.3   Powers and Duties
   
8-14.4   Residency Exemption for Former BPDA Personnel
   
8-14.5   Financial Transfers
   
8-14.6   Property Transfers
   
8-14.7   Planning Department Performance Reporting
   
8-14.8   Effective Date
   
8-14.9   Partial Invalidity
8-1   PUBLIC FACILITIES DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance No. 1994 c. 6 transferred certain functions of the Public
Facilities Department to the Real Property Department. See Subsection 11-7.1b.
of this Code for transferred functions.
8-1.1   Power to Designate Community Schools.
   In addition to the powers conferred upon it by Chapter 642 of the Acts of
1966, the Public Facilities Commission shall have the power to designate as a
Community School any schoolhouse constructed, reconstructed or remodeled under
the provisions of Section 3(c) of said Chapter 642. Such power shall be
exercised before the care, custody and control of any such schoolhouse shall
have been transferred to the School Committee. The Public Facilities Commission
shall also have the power, with approval of the School Committee, to designate
as a Community School any schoolhouse the care, custody and control whereof
shall have been transferred to or shall rest with the School Committee, whether
or not such schoolhouse was constructed, reconstructed or remodeled under the
provisions of said Section 3(c).
(Ord. 1972 c. 18; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 1; CBC 1985 8-1.1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1966 c. 642 § 3(c); Ord. Section 19-1
8-1.2   Community School Program.
   The Public Facilities Commission shall further have the power to conduct a
Community School Program in any schoolhouse designated as a Community School
whether or not the care, custody and control thereof shall have been
transferred to or shall rest with the School Committee, and for such purpose
may exercise any power conferred upon it by Chapter 642 of the Acts of 1966.
Without limitation on the generality of the foregoing the Public Facilities
Commission may for the purpose of conducting a Community School Program at any
schoolhouse designated as Community School make, with the approval of the
Mayor, such agreements or contracts with persons, firms, corporations and
governmental Agencies, including the School Committee, as may be necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of such Community School Program, and said
Public Facilities Commission shall exercise its power hereunder in cooperation
with the School Committee and other affected Departments of the city. These
Departments shall include, but not be limited to, the Parks and Recreation
Department, the Mayor’s Office of Human Rights, the Youth Activities Commission
and the Office of Cultural Affairs.
(Ord. 1972 c.18; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 2; CBC 1985 8-1.2)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1966 c. 642; Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 7-4; Ord. Section 12-6; Ord.
Section 19-1
8-1.3   Community School Councils.
   The Public Facilities Commission shall establish, in conjunction with
representatives designated by existing Community School Councils, guidelines
for the creation and implementation of Community School Councils in each area
served by a Community School. These Councils are to be composed of individuals
representative of the residents of the area and the users of the facilities of
the school. The Public Facilities Commission shall recognize such a Community
School Council and will accept and act on recommendations from such councils in
matters relating to personnel, program and budget, as well as in areas of
general policy. The Public Facilities Commission shall, within 30 days after
the receipt of recommendations in writing from a Community School Council,
notify such Community School Council as to the adoption or rejection of such
recommendations, and shall inform such Community School Council of a timetable
for the implementation of adopted recommendations; community involvement in the
decision-making process shall apply to every phase of the Community School
Program.
(Ord. 1972 c. 18; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 3; CBC 1985 8-1.3)
8-1.4   Maintenance and Repair Powers of School Committee.
   Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as abridging the exclusive
power and authority of the School Committee to perform necessary alterations
(as defined in Section 3 of Chapter 642 of the Acts of 1966), maintenance and
repairs of public school buildings and their yards and furnishings, nor the
employment of schoolhouse custodians.
(Ord. 1972 c. 18; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 4; CBC 1985 8-1.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 19-1
8-2   BOSTON URBAN HOMESTEAD PROGRAM.
8-2.1   Urban Homestead Program.
   There shall be, within the Public Facilities Commission created by Chapter
642 of the Acts of 1966, a Committee to be known as the Boston Urban Homestead
Committee, which shall consist of all the members of said Commission, the City
Auditor, or his or her designee, one member appointed by the Mayor for a term
of five years from two nominees of the Greater Boston Real Estate Board, one
member regularly employed as a mortgage-lending officer of an institution
subject to the terms of M.G.L. Chapter 167, Section 52 to be appointed by the
Mayor for a period of five years, the Commissioner of Real Property, or his or
her designee, and two low-income residents of the city appointed by the Mayor
for a term of five years who neither own, directly or indirectly, or manage
real property to a greater extent than three housing units. The members
appointed by the Mayor (except for those serving ex officio) shall be deemed to
be Special Municipal Employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A. All
members shall serve without compensation. Any vacancy shall be filled in like
manner as the member vacating the appointment, for a similar term as the
original appointee. The Director of the Commission shall serve as Director of
the Committee, without further compensation.
(Ord. 1973 c.13; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 6; CBC 1985 8-2.1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1966 c. 642; M.G.L. Chapter 167, Section 52; Ord. Section 6-1; Ord.
Section 8-1; Ord. ss 11-7.1
8-2.2   Powers and Duties of Committee.
   The said Committee shall, from time to time, prepare and distribute lists of
city owned residential structures, which for the purposes of this Section shall
be determined to be buildings containing at least one and not more than four
dwelling units, and not more than one business or commercial unit. Upon
application of any person who is a bona fide resident of the city, or on its
own initiative, the Committee shall determine whether any such structure is
suitable for rehabilitation under the Urban Homestead Program. In the event
that the Committee determines the structure suitable, it shall request the
Commission to assume the care, custody and control of the same from the Real
Property Department and if, in the opinion of the Commission, the same is not
needed for municipal purposes nor likely to be used for a public purpose, the
structure (and the parcel of land on which it is situated) shall be declared
available for lease and sale under the provisions of the Urban Homestead
Program. The said Committee shall prepare, and, from time to time, amend, a
standard leasehold agreement to be executed for consideration of $1 by
individuals taking an interest in any such structure. Every such agreement
shall provide that the lessee shall reside in the demised structure for a
period of not less than five years from the date that the Commissioner of
Housing Inspection shall certify the same to be in compliance with the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code as applies to residential structures and the
Building Commissioner shall certify the same to be in compliance with the terms
of the building code then in effect (considering any allowances the code may
make for preexisting conditions or construction), whichever is later. The said
agreement shall provide that, unless the Committee shall extend the time, the
lessee shall do everything necessary to secure such certificates, and shall
actually obtain such certificates, within 18 months of the execution of such
agreement. The said agreement shall further provide that no tax or payment in
lieu of tax shall be due to the city for a period of 60 months after execution,
and that a payment in lieu of tax, approximately equal to one-twelfth of the
tax that would ordinarily be assessed on that building in the then-current
year, shall be payable to the city as an ordinary debt of the lessee for each
month over 60 months that the lease is in effect, and that the City shall, at
the end of the month of December following the expiration of 60 months from the
later of the dates of certificate, execute and deliver to the lessee for a
consideration of $1 a deed conveying title in fee simple to said premises. In
the event that a lessee has obtained a mortgage from an institution subject to
the terms of M.G.L. Chapter 167, Section 52, and has used the proceeds thereof
solely for the purposes of rehabilitating said premises, the city shall agree
to subjugate its rights to said premises in case of default, and shall agree
that in such case it will execute and deliver a deed conveying title in fee
simple to such institution; provided that the said institution shall dispose of
such property in like manner as foreclosed real estate and shall pay over any
part of the proceeds of such disposition as shall exceed the amount remaining
to be paid on account of such a mortgage, together with the actual cost of such
sale, to the city. The Committee shall, from time to time, with the approval of
the Mayor and City Council, promulgate, amend and repeal reasonable regulations
for the conduct of the Urban Homestead Program not inconsistent with this
Section. The aforementioned leasehold agreement shall be in a form approved by
the Mayor and Boston City Council and shall be executed by the said Commission
in the name of the city without the further approval of any Board, Officer or
of the City Council. The Committee may, without further approval, accept by
gift, title to any property situated in Boston it deems suitable for the Urban
Homestead Program provided the same is conveyed to it clear of any mortgage,
lien, attachment or other encumbrance which would prevent the lease or
conveyance of the same, as aforesaid.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 7; CBC 1985 8-2.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 2-8; Ord. Section 3-1; Ord. Section 9-1; Ord.
ss 11-7.6; St. 1938 c. 479
8-2.3   Application for Lease.
   (A)   The Committee shall receive from any person, except any person who has
in the five years next preceding owned, directly or indirectly, any parcel of
land in the city which was subject of a taking by the said city, duly recorded
in the Suffolk County Registry of Deeds, by reason of nonpayment of a tax or
lawful charge or assessment, applications for participation in the Urban
Homestead Program. The Committee shall satisfy itself that the applicant has
the ability to rehabilitate the structure which the applicant proposes to
lease. In arriving at its determination, the Committee shall consider the
following:
      (1)   The condition of the structure;
      (2)   The personal abilities of the applicant;
      (3)   Assets of the applicant;
      (4)   Mortgage commitments; and
      (5)   Availability of financing.
   (B)   In the event the Committee so satisfies itself, it shall declare the
applicant eligible to lease the structure applied for.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. TS § 8; CBC 1985 8-2.3)
8-2.4   Decisions by Committee.
   In the event that only one person has made application for a particular
structure, and has been found eligible to lease the same, the Committee shall
execute and deliver a lease as aforesaid, and, in the event that more than one
applicant has been determined to be so eligible to lease a particular building,
the said Committee shall conduct a drawing by lot, open to the public, and
shall execute and deliver a lease to that applicant so selected; provided
however, that no lease shall be executed unless the particular property to be
demised has been advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
at least twice, seven days apart, the second advertisement to be published at
least 14 days before the last date for applications to be filed.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 9; CBC 1985 8-2.4)
8-2.5   Consent of Committee.
   Any lease given hereunder may be assigned with the consent of the Committee,
which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Committee may terminate a lease
or make other equitable adjustment in the case of death or disability of the
lessee.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 10; CBC 1985 8-2.5)
8-2.6   Cooperation by Committee, Building Commissioner and Commissioner of
Housing Inspection.
   The Building Commissioner and the Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall
offer all reasonable assistance to lessee hereunder and the Committee, which
assistance, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall include
periodic inspection of the premises, the issuance of certificates as aforesaid,
technical assistance in the preparation of building permit applications,
consultation on applicable law, rehabilitation procedures and technique.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 11; CBC 1985 8-2.6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 9-1; St. T9 §§ 50, 56, 57
8-2.7   Preference in Selecting Prospective Purchasers.
   In the selection of the prospective purchasers of the buildings which are
the subject of this Section, preference shall be given to the bona fide
resident applicants of the neighborhood in which the building is situated. If
there are no applicants from the neighborhood in which the building is
situated, then the selecting authority may select any resident applicant of
Boston as a purchaser, the selection of these prospective applicants to be
subject to the approval of a local Selection Board appointed by the Mayor of
the city.
(Ord. 1973 c. 13 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 12; CBC 1985 8-2.7)
8-2.8   Urban Homesteading Under the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Boston Redevelopment Authority and
the Office of Community Development may conduct an Urban Homestead Program
under the provisions of Section 810 of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974, being Pub. Law No. 93-383, § 808; provided, that such program is
conducted consistent with an order adopted by the Boston City Council on
February 9, 1976, and provided further that selection of applicants is done in
a manner consistent with both that order and Subsections 8-2.4, 8-2.5, 8-2.6
and 8-2.8 hereof, except that the duties that would pertain to the Committee
shall be exercised by the Office of Community Development.
   (B)   The said Office of Community Development shall from time to time,
subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council, promulgate, amend and
repeal reasonable regulations not inconsistent with this Section.
(Ord. 1976 c. 2; CBC 1985 8-2.8)
8-3   BOSTON REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T8 c. 3; CBC 1985 8-3)
8-4   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T8 c. 5; CBC 1985 8-4)
8-5   DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION.
8-5.1   Composition of Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Development and
Industrial Commission, consisting of 15 Commissioners appointed by the Mayor.
The Development and Industrial Commissioners shall serve for a term of five
years. As the term of any Commissioner expires, his or her successor shall be
appointed by the Mayor for a term of five years. Any vacancy in the Office of a
Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the Commissioners
as Chair and the other as Vice-Chair. The Commission shall elect a Secretary
who need not be a Commissioner.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties. The Commissioners shall be deemed to be special municipal employees for
the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(Ord. 1969 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10B § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 300;
CBC 1985 8-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 268A; Ord. Section 2-7
8-5.2   Executive Director; Employees.
   The Mayor may, upon nomination of the Development and Industrial Commission,
appoint an Executive Director for such Commission, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and receive such compensation for his or her services as
the Commission, with the approval of the Mayor, shall, from time to time,
determine. The Commission may employ such other experts, assistants and
employees as the Commission may think necessary or expedient.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10B § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 301; CBC 1985 8-5.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 2-7
8-5.3   Powers and Duties.
   The Development and Industrial Commission shall conduct research into
industrial conditions, investigate and assist in the establishment of
educational or commercial projects, including projects involving private
enterprise, for the purpose of expanding or strengthening the local economy,
and shall seek to coordinate the activities of unofficial bodies organized for
said purposes, and may advertise, prepare, print and distribute books, maps,
charts and pamphlets which in its judgment will further the purposes for which
it is established. The Commission shall have such other powers and perform such
other duties as may, from time to time, be conferred or imposed by M.G.L.
Chapter 40, Section 8A.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10B § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 302; CBC 1985 8-5.3)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8A
8-6   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T8 c. 9; CBC 1985 8-6)
8-7   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT COMMISSION.
8-7.1   Composition of Board; Powers and Duties.
   There shall be in the Public Works Department a Board known as the Public
Improvement Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of the Public Works
Department, the Commissioner of the Disabilities Commission, the Commissioner
of the Property Management Department, the Commissioner of the Transportation
Department, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department and the
Executive Director of the Boston Water and Sewer Commission, ex officiis. The
Public Improvement Commission shall not be subject to the supervision or
control of the Commissioner of Public Works except as he or she acts as a
member of said Commission; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the
Public Improvement Commission shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make any
annual or other report, except through the Commissioner of the Public Works
Department. The Public Improvement Commission shall have all powers and perform
all duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Board of Street Commissioners
except:
   (A)   Those conferred or imposed on the Committee on Licenses in the Public
Safety Commission by Subsection 14-2.1;
   (B)   Those conferred or imposed on the Commissioner of Public Works by
Subsection 11-6.1; and
   (C)   Those conferred or imposed on the Real Property Board by Subsection
11-7.1.
(CBC 1985 8-7.1)
8-7.2   Effective Date.
   This Section shall become effective in 30 days upon its adoption.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 57; Ord. 1962 c. 9 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 §
36; CBC 1975 Ord. T8 § 500; Ord. 1976 c. 10; CBC 1985 8-7.2; Ord. 2020 c. 3.)
Cross-reference:
   St. 7 § 201; St. 11 es. 1, 5, 7; St. 14 c. 3
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
8-8   CREATING THE EMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC POLICY ADMINISTRATION.
8-8.1   Creation of EEPA; Appointment of Administrator.
   In accordance with Subsection 2-12.3, there is hereby created a City
Department to be known as the Employment and Economic Policy Administration
(hereinafter “EEPA”) which shall be under the charge of an Officer, known as
the Administrator, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first
Monday of January following the next biennial municipal election at which a
Mayor is elected, who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed upon
him or her by law.
(Ord. 1980 c. 17 § 1; CBC 1985 8-8.1)
8-8.2   Authority of Administrator.
   Subject to fundings, the Administrator shall be the appointing authority
and, from time to time, shall establish within the Department such divisions
and administrative units within such divisions as may be necessary for the
efficient and economical administration of the Department, and when necessary
for such purpose, he or she may abolish any such Division, or he or she may
merge any two or more of them, and may abolish or merge any such other
Administrative Units within divisions as he or she may deem advisable. The
Administrator shall prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of
the Department, of the assignment of functions to its various Administrative
Units, Offices and employees, and of the places at which, and the methods
whereby, the public may receive information or make requests. The
Administration shall annually on or before August 15 provide to the Mayor and
to the Boston City Council a detailed report of the activity of the Agency, its
projects and plans, and comments on its progress in attacking and solving the
problem of unemployment.
(Ord. 1980 c. 17 § 2; CBC 1985 8-8.2)
8-8.3   Purpose.
   The Employment and Economic Policy Administration shall develop and
administer programs in conjunction with federal, commonwealth and local
government, private industry and nonprofit organizations to employ more
Bostonians and to improve the general economic well-being of the city. In order
to accomplish these ends, the Employment and Economic Policy Administration
shall develop and administer programs to:
   (A)   Train and educate chronically unemployed Boston residents;
   (B)   Establish referral and placement opportunities in unsubsidized jobs in
private and public sector employment for Boston residents;
   (C)   Encourage increased job development in the city, including technical
assistance to private industry to hire and train more Boston residents;
   (D)   Establish specialized programs to assist handicapped and young people
in obtaining meaningful employment opportunities to promote their career
development;
   (E)   Coordinate with private and public school systems to assist people in
obtaining marketable job skills and training as part of their education; and
   (F)   Apply for and expend federal, commonwealth and/or other grants to
assist in these ends in conjunction with the approval of the Mayor and City
Council.
(Ord. 1980 c. 17 § 3; CBC 1985 8-8.3)
8-8.4   Use of Funds.
   (A)   No more than 20% of the annual operating budget of the Employment and
Economic Policy Administration may be expended on administrative staff and
overhead costs. In any case, no more than 280 administrative personnel, all of
whom shall be residents of Boston, may be employed by the Employment and
Economic Policy Administration after December 31, 1980.
   (B)   All administrative staff positions in EEPA shall be filled and held
subject to the receipt by the city of funds from the United States for the
various programs set forth in Subsection 8-8.3. All qualified residents of the
city shall have an equal opportunity for appointment to such positions and
shall enjoy equal protection in the holding of such positions.
(Ord. 1980 c. 17 § 4; CBC 1985 8-8.4)
8-9   ESTABLISHING THE BOSTON RESIDENTS JOBS POLICY.
8-9.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The unit of government, within the structure of the city that is
responsible for the application, administration and execution of Community
Development Block Grants, projects in the area of housing and employment, and
Federal affirmative action programs, currently the Neighborhood Development and
Employment Agency.
   APPROVED APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM. Shall be defined as it is in
M.G.L. Chapter 23, Sections 11H and 11I and is approved by the Division of
Apprentice Training of the Department of Labor and Industries.
   BONA FIDE BOSTON RESIDENT. A worker who provides sufficient evidence of his
or her status as a resident of the city as described in Subsection 8-9.3(A)(2)
(f).
   BOSTON RESIDENTS JOBS POLICY STANDARDS OR BRJP STANDARDS. The standards as
described below:
      (1)   At least 51% of the total work hours of journey people and 51% of
the total work hours of apprentices in each trade on a covered project shall be
by bona fide Boston residents;
      (2)   At least 40% of the total work hours of journey people and 40% of
the total work hours of apprentices in each trade on a covered project shall be
by people of color; and
      (3)   At least 12% of the total work hours of journey people and 12% of
the total work hours of apprentices in each trade on a covered project shall be
by women.
   CITY-FUNDED PROJECT. Any construction project funded in whole or in part by
city funds or funds which, in accordance with a federal grant or otherwise, the
city expends or administers.
   COMMISSION. The Boston Employment Commission.
   COMPLIANCE MONITOR. The person or persons assigned by the Boston Residents
Jobs Policy Office or the Boston Planning and Development Agency Compliance
Office to monitor a covered project’s compliance with this Section.
   COVERED PROJECT. 
      (1) Any city-funded project as defined in this Section; or
      (2) Any Major Development Project as defined in this Section.
   DEVELOPER. An entity that owns or coordinates the construction or
substantial rehabilitation of a Major Development Project.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR OR CONSTRUCTION MANAGER. Any person, firm, partnership,
owner operator, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture,
proprietorship, trust, association or other legal entity that employs
individuals to perform work on covered projects, including contractors and
subcontractors of all tiers.
   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any new construction or substantial
rehabilitation project in the city for which a project notification form has
not already been submitted to the Boston Planning and Development Agency on or
before January 31, 2017 for the specific construction or rehabilitation, which
requires zoning relief, and in which it is proposed to erect a structure or
structures having a total gross floor area (exclusive of all accessory parking
garage space) in excess of 50,000 square feet or to enlarge or extend a
structure or structures so as to increase its (or their) gross floor area
(exclusive of all accessory parking garage space) by more than 50,000 square
feet or to substantially rehabilitate a structure or structures having, or to
have, after rehabilitation, a gross floor area (exclusive of accessory parking
garage space) of more than 100,000 square feet.
   PEOPLE OF COLOR. Individuals who are Black, Hispanic/Latino, Asian/Pacific
Islander or Native American.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 2; CBC 1985 8-9.1; Ord. 1998 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 2)
8-9.2   Boston Residents Jobs Policy Office.
   (A)   The Boston Residents Jobs Policy Office in the Office of Economic
Development (“BRJP Office”) shall be responsible for the planning,
implementation and overall coordination of compliance monitoring on all covered
projects, including, but not limited to, Major Development Projects. Some
covered projects will be monitored by the Boston Planning and Development
Agency Compliance Office (“BPDA Compliance Office”), which will assume the role
of the BRJP Office for purposes of this Section on those projects. On covered
projects, the developer, general contractor/construction manager and each
subcontractor must meet with the assigned compliance monitor prior to beginning
construction to discuss initial project overview, including project duration,
dollar amount, workforce projections and BRJP standards. Subcontractors added
to a covered project after the beginning of construction must meet with the
assigned compliance monitor prior to beginning work on the project.
   (B)   The BRJP Office shall operate a referral program, called the Boston
Residents Jobs Bank, which shall refer city residents, people of color and
women to general contractors, construction managers and subcontractors to
increase opportunities for Boston residents, people of color and women for
employment and training on construction projects within the city.
   (C)   Prior to the commencement of any covered project, the assigned
compliance monitor shall:
      (1)   Review spending plans for the project;
      (2)   Review timeline and workforce projections for the project;
      (3)   Identify the number of job positions to be created by the project;
      (4)   Specify training needed for entry-level and semi-skilled positions
by job title;
      (5)   Assist the city, developers and general contractors, in conjunction
with appropriate unions and their existing collective bargaining agreements
where applicable, with recruiting employees and arranging for training through
established union apprenticeship programs. On non-union projects, assist the
city, developers and general contractors with recruiting employees through
available community-based programs; and
      (6)   Utilize the Jobs Bank to refer Boston residents, people of color
and women to general contractors and subcontractors to assist such general
contractors/construction manager and subcontractors to comply with this Section
and to increase opportunities for Boston residents, people of color and women
for employment and training on construction projects within the city.
   (D)   On each covered project, the assigned compliance monitor shall track
the number of hours completed by people of color who are city resident people
of color.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 3; CBC 1985 8-9.2; Ord. 1998 c. 1 § 2; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 3)
8-9.3   Compliance.
   (A)   On any new covered project, a general contractor/construction manager
or subcontractor may comply with the Boston Residents Jobs Policy by achieving,
on a craft by craft basis, at least one of the following:
      (1)   Meeting the BRJP standards as defined in Subsection 8-9.1 and
providing documentation of such to the assigned compliance monitor; or
      (2)   Taking each of the following steps.
         (a)   Prior to the start of construction, the general contractor/
construction manager shall designate an individual to serve as a compliance
Officer for the purpose of complying with the Boston Residents Jobs Policy.
         (b)   Prior to the start of construction, the general contractor/
construction manager and each subcontractor then selected shall meet with the
assigned compliance monitor for the purpose of reviewing the Boston Residents
Jobs Policy standards, estimated construction activity over the construction
period of the covered project, and each item listed in Subsection 8-9.2(C). A
representative of the awarding or contracting authority on public projects may
attend the meeting. The general contractor/construction manager shall in a
timely manner complete and submit to the Commission and the assigned compliance
monitor a projection of the workforce needs over the course of construction of
the covered project. Such submission shall reflect the needs by trade for each
month of the construction process. This process shall continue with each
subcontractor subsequently hired. All meetings shall be documented and a copy
of the documentation shall be filed with the assigned compliance monitor.
         (c)   Whenever any person involved in the construction of a covered
project makes a request to a union hiring hall, business agent, general
contractor/construction managers’ association or community referral source for
qualified construction workers, the request shall ask that those qualified
applicants referred for construction positions be referred in proportions
specified in the Boston Residents Jobs Policy and shall further contain a
recitation of the standards listed in Subsection 8-9.1. However, if the
requesting party’s workforce composition at any time falls short of any one or
more of the standards, the requesting party shall adjust his or her request so
as to seek to more fully achieve the proportions specified in Subsection 8-9.1.
If the union hiring hall, business agent, general contractor/ construction
managers’ association or community referral source to whom a request for
employees has been made fails to fully comply with such request, the requesting
party’s Compliance Officer shall seek written confirmation from the hall,
agent, association or community referral source that there are insufficient
employees in the categories in the request and that the insufficiency is
documented on the unemployed list maintained by the hall, agent, association or
community referral source. Copies of any confirmations obtained, as well as the
requests for confirmation, shall be forwarded to the assigned compliance
monitor.
         (d)   All Boston residents, people of color and women applying
directly to the general contractor/construction manager or any subcontractor
for employment in construction on a covered project who are not subsequently
employed by the party to whom application is made shall be referred by said
party to the BRJP Jobs Bank and a written record of such referral shall be made
by said party, a copy of which shall be sent to the assigned compliance
monitor.
         (e)   General contractors/construction managers and subcontractors
shall maintain a current file of the name, address and telephone number of each
Boston resident, person of color and woman who has sought employment with
respect to a covered project, or who was referred to the general contractor/
construction manager by the BRJP Jobs Bank but was not hired. The general
contractor/construction manager shall maintain a record of the reason any such
person was not hired. A copy of the file shall be sent each month to the
assigned compliance monitor.
         (f)   Before hiring, general contractors/ construction managers and
subcontractors shall obtain from each Boston Resident worker to be employed in
the construction of the covered project a sworn statement containing the
worker’s name and place of residence, as well as a driver’s license or state
form of identification and a current (30 days), postmarked bill sent to their
permanent residence. Documentation of residency shall be kept in the worker’s
file and be included in the initial compliance review. The residency
verification will be good for the duration of the project. Failure to properly
verify a worker’s residency will result in not having the resident hours
credited towards the overall project hours.
         (g)   One week after the commencement of the construction of the
project, and each week thereafter until the completion of the project, general
contractors/construction managers and subcontractors shall submit
electronically to the BRJP Office or BPDA Compliance Office for the week just
ended a report which contains the following information for each employee who
performed any work on the project in the week just ended: the employee’s name,
place of residence, race, gender, craft, job category, apprenticeship
participation, number of hours worked and employer. The report shall also
include the total number of hours worked by the total workforce in each craft
during the week just ended.
         (h)   Compliance monitors will be allowed to make site visits to
construction projects to determine employment standards relative to the BRJP
goals. General contractors/construction managers and selected subcontractors
shall attend corrective action meetings with the assigned compliance monitor
upon the monitor’s request to review and outline action steps required towards
targeted goals for the duration of the project. The results of the corrective
action meetings shall be included in compliance reviews.
         (i)   General contractors/construction managers and subcontractors
shall send a letter to the assigned compliance monitor upon issuance of the
final certificate of occupancy related to a covered project. The general
contractor/construction manager or subcontractor must cooperate with close out
procedure.
         (j)   General contractors/construction managers and subcontractors
shall appear before the Boston Employment Commission when requested.
         (k)   General contractors/construction managers and each subcontractor
shall maintain records reasonably necessary to ascertain compliance with the
steps detailed in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(i) above for at least
three years after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the covered
project.
         (l)   General contractor/construction managers shall incorporate in
every subcontractor contract an enumeration of the BRJP standards and shall
impose on each subcontractor a responsibility to take all steps enumerated in
divisions (A)(2)(a) to (A)(2)(k) above; or
      (3)   By demonstrating the high impracticality of complying with the BRJP
standards for a particular contract or class of employees in a particular craft
before project commencement and agreeing to sponsor a specified number of new
apprentices or other trainees specifically for the purpose of satisfying this
Subsection, in trades in which noncompliance is likely, and retaining those
apprentices or trainees throughout the duration of the project. All apprentices
or trainees retained to satisfy this Subsection must be bona fide Boston
residents, people of color or women. The general contractor/construction
manager or subcontractor must work in coordination with the BRJP Office or
Boston Planning and Development Agency Compliance Office to avoid fines and
other penalties under this Section. This Subsection may be utilized for
compliance with this Section only upon written authorization by the compliance
monitor for each particular craft on a project.
   (B)   On any new Major Development Project, a developer may comply with the
Boston Residents Jobs Policy by achieving, on a craft by craft basis, at least
one of the following:
      (1)   Meeting the BRJP standards as defined in Subsection 8-9.1 and
providing documentation of such to the assigned compliance monitor;
      (2)   Taking each of the following steps:
         (a)   Incorporating in every general construction contract or
construction management agreement an enumeration of the BRJP standards and
imposing a responsibility upon each general contractor/construction manager or
construction manager to take all steps enumerated in divisions (A)(2)(a)
through (A)(2)(j) above and to incorporate the BRJP standards in all
subcontracts and impose on all subcontractors the obligation to take such
steps;
         (b)   Meeting with the general contractor/construction manager no less
frequently than weekly throughout the period of construction of the covered
project to review the general contractor/construction manager’s compliance with
the BRJP standards and the steps enumerated in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)
(2)(i) above. The developer shall maintain minutes of such meetings and shall
forward a copy of such minutes to the assigned compliance monitor within ten
days of each meeting; and
         (c)   Appearing before the Boston Employment Commission when
requested.
      (3)   By demonstrating the high impracticality of complying with the BRJP
standards for a particular contract or class of employees in a particular craft
before project commencement and agreeing to sponsor a specified number of new
apprentices in addition to those employed pursuant to Subsection 8-9.5, in
trades in which noncompliance is likely, and retaining those apprentices
throughout the duration of the project. All apprentices retained under this
Section must be bona fide city residents, people of color or women. The general
contractor or subcontractor must work in coordination with the BRJP Office or
Boston Planning and Development Agency Compliance Office to avoid fines and
other penalties under this Section. This Subsection may be utilized for
compliance with this Section only upon written authorization by the compliance
monitor for each particular craft on a project.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 4; CBC 1985 8-9.3; Ord. 1998 c.1 § 3; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 4)
8-9.4   Boston Employment Commission.
   (A)   The Commission will be responsible for compliance review of all
Covered Projects, including those monitored by the BPDA Compliance Office, and
enforcing this Section, up to and including the imposition of sanctions and
fines.
   (B)   The Commission will be comprised of seven Commission members.
   (C)   The Mayor will appoint all Commission members. The Mayor will select
either one or two Commission members from recommendations made by organizations
dedicated to workers’ rights in the city, one Commission member from
recommendations made by labor unions including SEIU and trade unions, one
Commission member from recommendations made by organizations representing the
development community and one Commission member from recommendations made by
organizations representing the non-profit development community.
   (D)   Commission members may serve a maximum of three consecutive two-year
terms.
   (E)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall be designated by the Mayor and
shall serve in that capacity for a term of two years.
   (F)   The Mayor may remove a Commission member, including a Chairperson, for
cause by filing a written statement with the City Clerk. The Mayor’s decision
shall be final.
   (G)   The Commission shall meet at least monthly.
   (H)   The Commission shall review each Covered Project at the 25%, 50%, 75%
and 100% complete stage, measured by total worker hours completed. Commission
review shall occur at least every three months, regardless of the stage of
project completion.
   (I)   The Commission shall monitor Davis-Bacon Act requirements, being
codified at 40 U.S.C. §§ 3141—3148, contained in City Agency or Boston Planning
and Development Agency contracts. The Commission shall receive compliance
information and shall forward any information concerning apparent noncompliance
to appropriate federal Agencies.
   (J)   The Commission shall have the authority to promulgate regulations as
to matters within the Commission’s purview after public notice and hearing and
upon a vote of all members and is directed to consider The Policy Group on
Tradeswomen’s Issues document entitled “Finishing the Job: Best Practices for
Diversity in Construction” when promulgating regulations concerning how the
Commission will assess efforts to comply with this Section.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 5; CBC 1985 8-9.4; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 5)
8-9.5   Training Program.
   The city shall establish or cause to be established, either independently or
in concert with craft unions, and construction contractors, job training
programs to train minorities, Boston residents and women for skilled or semi-
skilled construction jobs; or all bidders and all subcontractors under the
bidder shall maintain and participate in an approved apprentice training
program as defined by M.G.L. Chapter 23, Sections 11H and 11I for each
apprenticeable trade or occupation represented in his or her workforce that is
approved by the Division of Apprentice Training of the Department of Labor and
Industries and must abide by the apprentice to journeymen ratio for each trade
prescribed therein in the performance of the contract. These programs shall be
supervised by the Agency.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 6; CBC 1985 8-9.5; Ord. 1998 c.1 § 4)
8-9.6   Fines.
   Any person who provides false information regarding his or her residence
address shall be subject to a fine of not more than $300.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 7; CBC 1985 8-9.6)
8-9.7   Independent Agencies.
   Any and all activities of any independent Agency, operating or acting on
behalf of the city, including, but not limited to, the Boston Redevelopment
Authority and the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation shall comply
with the provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 1983 c. 30 § 8; CBC 1985 8-9.7)
8-9.8   Sanctions.
   (A)   The Commission shall determine compliance with the Boston Residents
Jobs Policy standards and the compliance standards listed in Subsection 8-9.3.
The Commission shall gather and receive compliance information, investigate
non-compliance complaints and make compliance determinations.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the power to impose sanctions upon
developers, general contractors/construction managers and subcontractors found
to be in non-compliance with this Section. Sanctions may be imposed by a
majority vote of the members of the Commission present. Developers may be fined
for violations of the Ordinance by general contractors/construction managers
and subcontractors on their projects.
      (1)   For city-funded projects, penalties and fines may include:
         (a)   Fines to a maximum of $300 for each violation. A violation
occurs where a general contractor/construction manager or subcontractor has not
complied with this Section. Each day of noncompliance will be considered a
separate violation; and
         (b)   Creation of a record of non-compliance with city policy that may
be considered when awarding future construction contracts on city-funded
projects.
      (2)   For Major Development Projects, penalties and fines may include:
         (a)   Fines to a maximum of $300 for each violation. A violation
occurs where a developer, general contractor/construction manager or
subcontractor has not complied with this Section or analogous provision of any
agreement with the Boston Planning and Development Agency. Each day of
noncompliance will be considered a separate violation; or
         (b)   Creation of a record of non-compliance with city policy that may
be considered when awarding future construction contracts on city-funded
projects.
   (C)   The city may suspend the work of, or payments to, general contractors/
construction managers who violate this Section on city-funded projects, until
compliance is obtained, and may terminate their contract after repeated
violations.
   (D)   General contractors/construction managers and selected subcontractors
will be required to make periodic appearances before the Commission to review
and provide updates on projects. Appearing parties should bring all
documentation of compliance. The assigned compliance monitor will prepare and
present a report regarding the following:
      (1)   Statistics for top five trades and subcontractors;
      (2)   Average payroll submission time;
      (3)   Project work hours completed by Boston Residents, people of color
and women; and
      (4)   Compliance with steps listed in Subsection 8-9.3(A)(2).
   (E)   Any party may appeal a vote to issue a fine under this Section for
reconsideration by the Commission. Such appeal must be made in writing and must
include a memorandum of no more than five pages explaining the reasons why the
Commission’s decision should be reversed. Such appeal must be received by the
Commission within 30 days of the hearing date at which the fine was ordered.
Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the Commission must schedule the appeal for a
hearing and send notice of the same to the appealing party and the assigned
compliance monitor. At the hearing, the appealing party and the assigned
compliance monitor may present additional relevant evidence. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the Commission shall determine whether to vacate its initial
findings based on the evidence presented on appeal.
(CBC 1985 8-9.8; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 6)
8-9.9   Boston City Council Review.
   Each year in April and October, the Boston City Council will hold a hearing
to review the work of the Boston Employment Commission during the preceding six
months based on a report that itemizes the number of compliance determinations,
the number of developers, general contractors/construction managers and
subcontractors determined to be out of compliance; the number of sanctions
levied; the amount of the sanctions levied; the number of sanctions received by
developers and general contractors/construction managers and subcontractors in
each of the 22 trades; the total number of work hours, trade by trade; and the
percentage of total hours, trade by trade performed by Boston workers, people
of color and women during the preceding six months. The Boston Employment
Commission will also provide data and information that will enable the Boston
City Council to make a recommendation as to whether the goals for people of
color or female worker hours should be raised.
(CBC 1985 8-9.9; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 6)
8-9.10   Hiring Discretion.
   This Policy does not limit contractors’ or subcontractors’ ability to assess
qualifications of prospective workers, and to make final hiring and retention
decisions. No provision of this Policy shall be interpreted so as to require a
contractor or subcontractor to employ a worker not qualified for the position
in question, or to employ any particular worker.
(CBC 1985 8-9.10; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 6)
8-9.11   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 8-9.11; Ord. 2017 c. 1 § 6)
8-10   DISRUPTION MITIGATION PLAN FOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
8-10.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED AREA. The immediate area disrupted by a major road construction
project, as determined by the Transportation Department.
   COMPLETION OF A MAJOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. The date on which the
Transportation Department accepts the project as finished.
   MAJOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. A construction project involving a street
or other roadway within the city which is expected to continue in excess of six
months and to cost more than $1,000,000 to complete.
   SMALL BUSINESS. A business which:
      (1)   Has fewer than 20 full- and part-time employees; and
      (2)   Had a yearly sales volume of less than $1,000,000 during its most
recent fiscal year.
(CBC 1985 8-10.1; Ord. 1990 c. 6 § 1)
8-10.2   Disruption Mitigation Plan.
   The plans for all major road construction projects shall include a plan for
minimizing the disruption to be caused to both small businesses and residents
within the affected area. The types of disruption which must be minimized shall
include, but shall not be limited to, disruption in the flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, loss of parking, interruption of utilities, storage of
construction equipment, noise and dust, rodent infestations, deliveries to the
construction site and to small businesses and damage to landscaping. This
disruption mitigation plan must be approved by the Transportation Department
prior to the start of construction. No Officer in charge of a Department
issuing a building permit, street occupancy permit or any other permit
necessary for a major road construction project shall issue such a permit until
the Transportation Department has approved that project’s disruption mitigation
plan. In addition, no Officer authorized to enter into any contract for
conducting any part of a major road construction project on any street, roadway
or other land owned by the city or any of its Agencies shall enter into such a
contract unless that contract incorporates the provisions of the disruption
mitigation plan approved by the Transportation Department.
(CBC 1985 8-10.2; Ord. 1990 c. 6 § 2)
8-10.3   Disruption Impact Fund.
   (A)   All individuals, developers and general contractors performing any
part of a major road construction project shall set aside an amount equal to
0.5% of the expected total cost of the road construction work they are
performing as a contingency fund for the reimbursement of damages to small
businesses caused by disruption due to the project. This Disruption Impact Fund
shall be deposited with the Public Facilities Department prior to the start of
construction. No street occupation permit or other permit issued by any Officer
in charge of a Department with respect to a major road construction project
shall be valid if the Disruption Impact Fund is not on deposit with the Public
Facilities Department.
   (B)   If a small business within the affected area:
      (1)   Suffers a decline in its gross receipts equal to or greater than
20% for any period of 60 consecutive days during the course of the construction
work; and
      (2)   That decline can be reasonably attributed to the disruption caused
by the major road construction project, then that small business is eligible
for reimbursement from the disruption impact fund in an amount equal to the
direct and incidental damage to its business which is reasonably attributable
to the disruption caused by the project. Compliance with the disruption
mitigation plan by those parties performing the construction work shall in no
way affect any small business’s eligibility for reimbursements from the
Disruption Impact Fund. For the purposes of determining a decline in gross
receipts, gross receipts for the relevant 60-day period shall be compared with
the average of the small business’ gross receipts from the same 60-day period
in the previous two fiscal years.
   (C)   The Public Facilities Department shall administer the disruption
impact fund. However, eligibility for reimbursements from the disruption impact
fund shall not be determined by the Public Facilities Department. Rather,
eligibility for the reimbursements shall be determined by arbitration, in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association.
   (D)   The Public Facilities Department shall prepare and distribute
application forms for small businesses to use to document their claims. Small
businesses shall return completed applications to the Public Facilities
Department. Upon receiving a completed application from a small business, the
Public Facilities Department shall:
      (1)   Notify the individuals, developers or general contractors
responsible for depositing the project’s Disruption Impact Fund of the small
business’ claim; and
      (2)   Refer the small business’ claims for appropriate arbitration.
   (E)   The Public Facilities Department shall be responsible for disbursing
the reimbursements from the Disruption Impact Fund to those small businesses
the arbitrator determines to be eligible. The individuals, developers or
general contractors responsible for initially depositing the Disruption Impact
Fund for the project shall reimburse the Disruption Fund for all disbursements
made from the fund to small businesses and for all disbursements made to pay
the fees for the arbitration. No street occupation permit or other permit
issued by any Officer in charge of a Department with respect to a major road
construction project shall be valid if the Disruption Impact Fund is not
regularly replenished after the Public Facilities Department makes
disbursements from the Fund.
   (F)   Small businesses may apply to the Public Facilities Department for
reimbursements from the Disruption Impact Fund as soon as they believe they
meet the eligibility criteria, but they must apply no later than 30 days after
completion of the major road construction project. Small businesses may make
successive reimbursement applications during the course of the construction
work if the small business continues to suffer qualifying declines in business.
   (G)   When 90 days have passed after the completion of a major road
construction project and all outstanding claims for reimbursement made to the
Public Facilities Department have been finally resolved, the Public Facilities
Department shall return any funds remaining in the disruption impact fund to
the individual, developer or general contractor who originally deposited those
funds with the Public Facilities Department.
(CBC 1985 8-10.3; Ord. 1990 c. 6 § 3)
8-10.4   Severability.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision or Subsection of
this Section to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, that decision shall
in no way affect or impair the other provisions and Subsections.
(CBC 1985 8-10.4; Ord. 1990 c. 6 § 4)
8-11   NAMING OF MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
8-11.1   Naming of Municipal Buildings.
   The Public Facilities Commission shall have the exclusive authority in
naming municipal buildings. The Public Facilities Commission shall provide
notice in writing to the Boston City Council when naming municipal buildings.
(CBC 1985 8-11.1; Ord. 2013 c. 3)
8-12   COMMUNITY PRESERVATION COMMITTEE.
8-12.1   Establishment.
   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 44B, Section 5, there is hereby established in
Boston the Community Preservation Committee, hereinafter referred to as the
Committee.
(CBC 1985 8-12.1; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Includes low and moderate income housing for individuals
and families, including low and moderate income senior housing.
   AREA-WIDE MEDIAN INCOME. The area-wide median income as determined by the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES. Includes a building, structure, vessel or real property
that is listed on the commonwealth register of historic places or determined by
the Boston Landmarks Commission to be significant in the history, archeology,
architecture or culture of the city, including through designation as a Boston
landmark or pending landmark.
   LOW INCOME HOUSING. Housing for those persons and families whose annual
income is less than 80% of the area-wide median income.
   LOW OR MODERATE INCOME HOUSING FOR SENIORS. Housing for those persons having
reached the age of 60 or over who would qualify for low or moderate income
housing.
   MODERATE INCOME HOUSING. Housing for those persons and families whose annual
income is less than 100% of the area-wide median income.
   OPEN SPACE. Includes, but is not limited to, land to protect existing and
future well fields, aquifers and recharge areas, watershed land, agricultural
land, grasslands, fields, forest land, fresh and salt water marshes and other
wetlands, ocean, river, stream, lake and pond frontage, beaches, dunes and
other coastal lands, lands to protect scenic vistas, land for wildlife or
nature preserve and land for recreational use.
   RECREATIONAL USE. Includes active or passive recreational use including, but
not limited to, the use of land for community gardens, trails and noncommercial
youth and adult sports, and the use of land as a park, playground or athletic
field. The term RECREATIONAL USE shall not include horse or dog racing or the
use of land for a stadium, gymnasium or similar structure.
(CBC 1985 8-12.2; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.3   Purpose.
   The Committee is responsible for evaluating the community preservation needs
of the city, and making recommendations for expenditures from the Community
Preservation Fund created by acceptance of the Community Preservation Act,
M.G.L. Chapter 44B. Community preservation needs shall include the acquisition,
creation and preservation of open space; the acquisition, preservation,
rehabilitation and restoration of historic resources; the acquisition,
creation, preservation and support of affordable housing; the acquisition,
creation, preservation and rehabilitation of land for recreational use; and the
rehabilitation of open space and community housing that is acquired or created
under Chapter 44B.
(CBC 1985 8-12.3; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.4   Membership, Appointment, Term.
   (A)   The Committee shall consist of nine members. Five of the members shall
be appointed as required by the Community Preservation Act, M.G.L. Chapter 44B,
Section 5, as follows:
      (1)   One member of the Boston Conservation Commission shall be
designated by said commission;
      (2)   One member of the Boston Landmarks Commission shall be designated
by said commission;
      (3)   One member of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall be
designated by said Commission;
      (4)   As Boston possesses no Planning Board established under M.G.L.
Chapter 41, Section 81A, one representative of the Boston Redevelopment
Authority, d.b.a. the Boston Planning and Development Agency, shall be
designated by said Agency; and
      (5)   The Boston Housing Authority being constituted without a board, one
representative of the Boston Housing Authority to be designated by said
Authority.
   (B)   Four additional members shall be appointed by the Boston City Council
as follows.
      (1)   The Boston City Council shall establish by order a special
committee which shall concern itself with nominating persons for consideration
by the full Boston City Council for appointment to the Committee. When making
its recommendations and to ensure that all interests are represented, the
Special Committee shall nominate one person that has experience in development,
business, finance or any combination thereof and one person that has expertise
in open space, affordable housing, historic preservation or any combination
thereof. In addition to the aforementioned members, the special committee shall
also nominate two persons that have a history of involvement in their local
communities. The Special Committee shall receive applications from interested
persons which shall include a brief statement of the reasons for their interest
and suitability.
      (2)   The nominees submitted by the special committee to the Boston City
Council for appointment shall reflect the ethnic, racial, socioeconomic and
geographic diversity of the city. When nominating individuals for appointment,
the special committee shall also take into account the backgrounds of the five
members appointed under M.G.L. Chapter 44B, Section 5.
      (3)   All members of the Committee must be residents of Boston at
appointment and for the duration of their term.
      (4)   No nominee for the four Boston City Council appointments shall be
an employee or elected official of the city.
      (5)   All members shall be appointed for terms of three years. No member
shall serve more than two consecutive terms. If a vacancy should arise and a
new member is appointed to serve a partial term of less than two years, that
partial term shall not count against the limit of two consecutive terms.
      (6)   In order to stagger the terms of the members, the initial
appointments of the Conservation Commission member, the Housing authority
member and one of the members appointed by Boston City Council shall be for one
year; and the initial appointments of the Landmarks Commission member, the
Boston Redevelopment Authority, d.b.a the Boston Planning and Development
Agency, member and another of the members appointed by Boston City Council
shall be for two years. After the initial appointments, all subsequent terms
shall be for three years.
(CBC 1985 8-12.4; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.5   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   The Committee shall study the needs, possibilities and resources of
Boston regarding community preservation and shall produce a Community
Preservation Plan. In conducting such a study, the Committee shall consult with
existing municipal Boards and Departments, including the Boston Conservation
Commission, the Boston Landmarks Commission, the Parks and Recreation
Commission, the Boston Planning and Development Agency, the Department of
Neighborhood Development, the Parks and Recreation Department and the Boston
Housing Authority, or persons acting in those capacities or performing like
duties. Before voting to approve its initial Plan, the Committee shall hold at
least one public informational hearing on local needs, possibilities and
resources. Thereafter, it shall hold at least one public hearing before
updating the Plan each year.
   (B)   Public hearings of the Committee shall be planned so as to maximize
citizen attendance including a preference to hold hearings in the evenings or
off-site from City Hall. Notice of all public hearings of the Committee shall
be posted publicly on the city website and published for each of two weeks
preceding a hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (C)   The Committee shall make recommendations to the Mayor for transmittal
to the Boston City Council for the acquisition, creation and preservation of
open space; for the acquisition, preservation, rehabilitation and restoration
of historic resources; for the acquisition, creation, preservation and
rehabilitation of land for recreational use; for the acquisition, creation,
preservation and support of affordable housing; and for rehabilitation or
restoration of such open space, and affordable housing that is acquired or
created in accordance with the provisions of the Community Preservation Act,
added by Chapter 267 of the Acts of 2000 and being M.G.L. Chapter 44B;
provided, however, that funds expended pursuant to that Act shall not be used
for maintenance. With respect to affordable housing, the Committee shall
recommend, wherever possible, the reuse of existing buildings or construction
of new buildings on previously developed sites.
   (D)   The Committee may include in its recommendations a recommendation to
set aside for later spending funds for specific purposes that are consistent
with community preservation but for which sufficient revenues are not then
available in the Community Preservation Fund to accomplish that specific
purpose or to set aside for later spending funds for general purposes that are
consistent with community preservation.
   (E)   Committee recommendations shall include their anticipated costs.
   (F)   In addition to state reporting mandated by the Community Preservation
Act, the Committee shall regularly report on the uses of the funds, map the
geographic distribution of funded projects and study the economic and racial
breakdown of benefitting areas. It shall make such analysis and the underlying
data available on a city website on at least an annual basis.
(CBC 1985 8-12.5; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.6   Rules and Regulations.
   (A)   The Committee shall elect one of its members as Chair. In the event a
Chair is unavailable, the most senior member of the Committee shall chair the
Committee.
   (B)   Five members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of convening a
meeting and of conducting the business of the Committee. The Committee shall
approve its actions by majority vote of the quorum.
   (C)   All records of the Committee shall be public unless an exemption
applies under the commonwealth’s Public Records Law, being M.G.L. Chapter 66,
Section 6A, and Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 26.
   (D)   Committee members shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Committee members who are not otherwise employed by the city shall be
classified as special municipal employees for the purpose of M.G.L. Chapter
268A.
   (F)   The Commissions, Authority, Agency and Council who have appointment
authority under this Section shall appoint such representatives within 160 days
of the effective date of this Section when making the initial appointments to
the Committee; after the initial appointments, all subsequent appointments
shall be made within 90 days. Should there be a vacancy or resignation in any
of the Community Preservation Committee positions, the Commissions, Authority,
Agency and Council who have appointment authority under this Section shall
appoint a new representative within 90 days of the first date of a known
vacancy or resignation.
(CBC 1985 8-12.6; Ord. 2017 c. 4; Ord. 2017 c. 5 § 1)
8-12.7   Fiscal Accountability.
   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 44B, Section 6, the community preservation funds
shall not replace existing operating funds, only augment them. The Mayor’s
Budget Office shall provide the Committee with operating and capital expenses
for open space, historic preservation and housing made in FY17, the last year
prior to the city’s adoption of the Community Preservation Act, added by
Chapter 267 of the Acts of 2000 and being M.G.L. Chapter 44B.
(CBC 1985 8-12.7; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-12.8   Applicability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be interpreted and applied at all times
consistently with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 44B and all provisions of
any relevant general or special act.
(CBC 1985 8-12.8; Ord. 2017 c. 4)
8-13   ESTABLISHING THE EQUITABLE REGULATION OF THE CANNABIS INDUSTRY IN THE
CITY.
8-13.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to ensure equity in the city’s cannabis
industry. The policies enacted during the “War on Drugs” and its associated
policies have had a disproportionate impact on people of Black, African
American, Latino and/or Hispanic descent. Within the city, neighborhoods
particularly impacted include Roxbury, Dorchester and Mattapan. It would be
unjust if, following the legalization of cannabis by the voters of the
commonwealth, people from the affected groups were not allowed to receive the
economic benefits of legalization.
(CBC 1985 8-13.1; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACT. A geographic area identified by the Boston
Cannabis Board or the Cannabis Control Commission, which has had historically
high rates of arrest, conviction and incarceration related to marijuana crimes
between 1971 and 2016.
   CANNABIS CONTROL COMMISSION or CCC. The Massachusetts Cannabis Control
Commission.
   CLOSE ASSOCIATE. A person who holds a relevant financial interest in, or is
entitled to exercise power in, the business of an applicant or licensee and, by
virtue of that interest or power, is able to exercise a significant influence
over the management or operation of a marijuana establishment licensed under
this chapter.
   CONTROLLING PERSON. An Officer, Board Member or other individual who has a
financial or voting interest of 10% or greater in a marijuana establishment.
   CRAFT MARIJUANA COOPERATIVE. A marijuana cultivator comprised of residents
of the commonwealth and organized as a limited liability company, limited
liability partnership or cooperative corporation under the laws of the
commonwealth. A COOPERATIVE is licensed to cultivate, obtain, manufacture,
process, package and brand cannabis or marijuana products to transport
marijuana to marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.
   INVESTOR. Any person or entity who has provided a marijuana applicant with
financial resources in exchange for an ownership stake in the business.
   LICENSEE. A person or entity licensed by the Boston Cannabis Board and the
Cannabis Control Commission to operate a marijuana establishment.
   MARIJUANA APPLICANT or APPLICANT. Any person, business, organization or
group that has submitted an application to the city to open a marijuana
establishment.
   MARIJUANA or CANNABIS. All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, not
excepted below and whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; and resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin including
tetrahydrocannabinol as defined in Section 1 of Chapter 94C; provided, however,
that MARIJUANA shall not include:
      (1)   The mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks, fiber, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant or the sterilized seed of the plant that
is incapable of germination;
      (2)   Hemp; or
      (3)   The weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA CULTIVATOR. An entity licensed to cultivate, process and package
marijuana; to deliver marijuana to marijuana establishments; and to transfer
marijuana to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marijuana cultivator, independent testing
laboratory, marijuana product manufacturer, marijuana retailer, marijuana
research facility or any other type of licensed marijuana-related business.
   MARIJUANA INDEPENDENT TESTING LABORATORY. A laboratory that is licensed by
the Cannabis Control Commission and is:
      (1)   Accredited to the most current International Organization for
Standardization 17025 by a third-party accrediting body that is a signatory to
the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation mutual recognition
arrangement or that is otherwise approved by the Cannabis Control Commission;
      (2)   Independent financially from any medical marijuana treatment center
or any licensee or marijuana establishment for which it conducts a test; and
      (3)   Qualified to test marijuana in compliance with 935 CMR 500.160 and
M.G.L. Chapter 64C, Section 34.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURER. An entity licensed to obtain, manufacture,
process and package marijuana and marijuana products; to deliver marijuana and
marijuana products to marijuana establishments; and to transfer marijuana and
marijuana products to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Products that have been manufactured and contain
marijuana or an extract from marijuana, including concentrated forms of
marijuana and products composed of marijuana and other ingredients that are
intended for use or consumption, including edible products, beverages, topical
products, ointments, oils and tinctures.
   MARIJUANA RESEARCH FACILITY. An entity licensed by the Cannabis Control
Commission to engage in research projects. Such a facility may cultivate,
purchase or otherwise acquire cannabis for the purpose of conducting research
regarding marijuana or marijuana products. A RESEARCH FACILITY may be an
academic institution.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. An entity licensed to purchase and deliver marijuana and
marijuana products from marijuana establishments and to deliver, sell or
otherwise transfer marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana establishments
and to consumers.
   MARIJUANA SOCIAL CONSUMPTION OPERATOR. A marijuana retailer licensed to
purchase marijuana and marijuana products from marijuana establishments and to
sell marijuana and marijuana products on its premises only to consumers or
allow consumers to consume marijuana or marijuana products on its premises
only.
   MARIJUANA TRANSPORTER. A marijuana retailer that does not provide a retail
location accessible to the public, but is authorized to deliver directly from a
marijuana cultivator facility, craft marijuana cultivator cooperative facility,
marijuana product manufacturer facility or microbusiness.
   MICROBUSINESS. A co-located marijuana establishment that can be either a
marijuana cultivator of up to 5,000 square feet or product manufacturer or
both, in compliance with the operating procedures for each license. A
MICROBUSINESS that is a marijuana product manufacturer may purchase no more
than 2,000 pounds of marijuana per year from other marijuana establishments.
(CBC 1985 8-13.2; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.3   Boston Equity Program.
   (A)   An applicant shall be designated by the Boston Cannabis Board as an
equity applicant if at least 51% of its ownership meets at least three of the
following criteria:
      (1)   A person who has resided in an area of disproportionate impact, as
defined by the Boston Cannabis Board, for at least five of the last ten years;
      (2)   A person who has a past arrest or conviction for the possession,
sale, manufacturing or cultivation of marijuana between 1971 and 2016, who has
been a resident of Boston for the past five years; or a person who is the child
of a person with a past arrest or conviction for the possession, sale,
manufacturing or cultivation of marijuana between 1971 and 2016, who has been a
resident of Boston for the past five years;
      (3)   A person who has resided in the city for at least the past seven
years;
      (4)   A person who is of Black, African American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian
or Indigenous descent;
      (5)   A person whose annual household income is at or below 100% of the
area median income;
      (6)   A person who has been certified by the Cannabis Control Commission
as an economic empowerment applicant or is a participant in the Cannabis
Control Commission’s Social Equity Program and is a resident of Boston for at
least one of the last three years; and
      (7)   A person who is a former member of the Armed Forces of the United
States (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, National Guard and
Space Force) who served on active duty and was discharged under conditions
which were other than dishonorable.
   (B)   The Office of Emerging Industries shall establish a program, known as
the “Boston Cannabis Equity Program”, to offer equity applicants services,
which may include:
      (1)   Technical assistance with business operations, including the
development of business plans;
      (2)   Technical assistance recruiting employees;
      (3)   Guidance and assistance through the application process;
      (4)   Technical assistance with legal compliance;
      (5)   Accounting and tax preparedness assistance;
      (6)   Best practices for operating in the marijuana industry;
      (7)   Technical assistance with store security; and
      (8)   Technical assistance identifying and raising funds and capital and
identifying vendors.
   (C)   An applicant or licensee shall only be eligible for the benefits of
the Boston Cannabis Equity Program if they continue to meet the above
conditions.
   (D)   The city shall maintain an equal or greater number of retail
dispensary equity applicant licensees to retail dispensary licensees who do not
qualify as equity applicants.
   (E)   The city shall maintain the same equity to non-equity ratio for
cultivation licenses.
(CBC 1985 8-13.3; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 8 § 1)
8-13.4   Boston Cannabis Board.
   (A)   The Mayor shall establish a Cannabis Board. This Board shall be made
up of seven members: one member with experience with the city’s licensing and
regulation of businesses, one member with experience in public health policy,
one member with experience in public safety, one member with experience in
organized labor or workers’ rights, one member with experience in economic
development, one member with experience in urban planning or land use and one
member with experience in a leadership role within a neighborhood association
in Boston.
   (B)   No member of the Boston Cannabis Board may be a close associate,
controlling person or investor in a business that holds, is seeking or intends
to seek a license from the Board.
   (C)   Board members shall receive annual ethics training and shall provide a
financial disclosure statement on an annual basis to ensure compliance with the
above conflict of interest provisions.
(CBC 1985 8-13.4; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 8 § 1)
8-13.5   Applicability.
   Any persons or entity seeking to operate any type of adult-use marijuana
establishment shall require a local license issued by the city.
(CBC 1985 8-13.5; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.6   Application Requirements.
   (A)   An applicant in any category of cannabis establishment shall file, in
a form and manner specified by the city, an application for licensure as a
cannabis establishment.
   (B)   Applicants shall be required to submit the following information as
part of their initial application:
      (1)   The entity name and the trade name to be used, and business
certificate;
      (2)   The names, addresses and contact information of the business
owners, controlling persons, close associates and investors;
      (3)   The address of the proposed business, and proof of permission from
the owner of the property to operate on the premises or lease information;
      (4)   The name, mailing address and contact information of the property
owner;
      (5)   The party responsible for managing the application and their
contact information;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has been designated as an economic
empowerment applicant by the commonwealth’s Cannabis Control Commission;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has been designated as a social equity
program participant, or whether they are eligible for the program, by the
commonwealth’s Cannabis Control Commission;
      (8)   Any other information or documents required by the Board;
      (9)   No retail applicants that are within a ½ mile of another licensed
retail marijuana establishment shall be scheduled for a hearing before the
Board until they provide the following:
         (a)   Applicant’s statement explaining in particularity why the
applicant should be granted a license despite the proximity to another
establishment addressing the following:
            1.   Special circumstances or conditions that apply to the proposed
location;
            2.   Reasons of practical difficulty and substantial hardship
explaining why the proximity to another applicant should not prevent the BCB
from granting a license. Self-created difficulty or the financial viability of
the proposal or site shall not be considered as a practical difficulty or
substantial hardship; and
            3.   How the BCB’s grant of a license would not negatively impact
the surrounding neighborhood.
         (b)   Documentation of support which may include letters of support
from community members, letters of support from community organizations,
letters of support from direct or indirect abutters and letters of support from
elected officials or their respective representatives. The BCB must receive a
minimum of three letters of support.
      (10)   In cases where there are two or more licensed retail
establishments within a half mile radius of a proposed site, retail applicants
shall be subject to heightened scrutiny and a rebuttable presumption against
the proposed location.
(CBC 1985 8-13.6; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 8 § 1)
8-13.7   Community Outreach, Host Community Agreements.
   (A)   The city shall hold at least one community meeting on the application
near the proposed location of the establishment. The meeting must be held
within six months of the initial application being filed.
   (B)   A notice shall be issued which shall include the date, time, place and
subject matter of the meeting, including the proposed address of the marijuana
establishment. It shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at
least seven calendar days prior to the meeting. A copy of the notice shall be
filed with the City Clerk. Copies shall be mailed or delivered to all residents
within 300 feet of the proposed location. The meeting shall include a
discussion of the following topics: the type(s) of marijuana establishment to
be located at the proposed address; information adequate to demonstrate that
the location will be maintained securely and steps to be taken by the marijuana
establishment to prevent diversion to minors; a plan by the marijuana
establishment to positively impact the community; and information adequate to
demonstrate that the location will not constitute a nuisance to the community.
   (C)   All approved applicants shall be required to negotiate a host
community agreement with the city, which must be kept current at all times. The
city shall negotiate host community agreements and work in collaboration with
the district City Councilor. The district City Councilor shall be responsible
for providing a letter of support, non-opposition or non-support.
(CBC 1985 8-13.7; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.8   Criteria.
   (A)   The city shall grant licenses with the goal of ensuring that licenses
are granted with respect to equity, quality and community safety. Licensees
shall be expected to comply with the laws and regulations of the commonwealth
and the city. Applications shall be evaluated based on the applicant’s score as
described in division (B) below.
   (B)   Applications shall be evaluated based on the applicant’s:
      (1)   Diversity and Inclusion Plan: 25%;
      (2)   Location: 25%:
         (a)   Distance from a licensed retail marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Residential and commercial density near the site;
         (c)   Distance from schools, social services or treatment centers;
         (d)   Access to public transportation; and
         (e)   Accessibility and amount of on-site parking.
      (3)   Employment Plan: 20%:
         (a)   Plan for employment of city residents;
         (b)   Plan for employment of minorities and women;
         (c)   Plan for offering competitive wages and benefits for local
residents; and
         (d)   Plan for employment of individuals with criminal records.
      (4)   Community feedback/public support: 20%:
         (a)   Letters of support from local elected officials; and
         (b)   Letters of support from local community organizations.
      (5)   Safety and security: 10%:
         (a)   Plan for on-site security personnel;
         (b)   Plan for building and product security;
         (c)   Plan for protecting youth from accessing the product;
         (d)   Plan for the transportation and delivery of the product; and
         (e)   Plan for the transportation of monies to and from the site.
(CBC 1985 8-13.8; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 8 § 1)
8-13.9   Fees.
   The Board may establish reasonable fees for licenses. The fee for a
marijuana retail license shall not exceed the fee levied on an all alcohol
retail store. The Board may also establish a reasonable annual fee in
conjunction with the annual renewal of a license.
(CBC 1985 8-13.9; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.10   Inspections and Enforcement.
   An applicant must secure the appropriate permits issued by the Cannabis
Board, Inspectional Services Department and, if necessary, any other Department
or Agency of the city. All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by
the Boston Police Department of the city and other duly authorized Agents of
the Board. All licensees are subject to the general rules of the Board as they
may be amended at the Board’s discretion. Upon citation from any City
Department or Agency, that Department or Agency must notify the Cannabis Board.
(CBC 1985 8-13.10; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.11   Boston Equity Fund.
   The Office of Emerging Industries shall administer and support the equity
program as described in Subsection 8-13.3 through funding appropriated to it as
the Boston Equity Fund. The Office of Emerging Industries shall make the funds
in the Boston Equity Fund available to support equity applicants and licensees,
as defined by the equity program, and to establish and operate a cannabis
business in the city. It is anticipated that the initial appropriation should
be an amount equal to 100% of revenue collected by the city under the 3% gross
sales revenue fee established in the Marijuana Host Community Agreements
(“HCA”), up to $1,000,000. Subject to appropriation, once an aggregate initial
amount of $1,000,000 has been deposited into the Boston Equity Fund, it is
anticipated that the Boston Equity Fund shall be credited with an amount equal
to 0.5% of gross annual HCA revenue until 2024 or upon the Boston Equity Fund
reaching $5,000,000, whichever occurs first.
(CBC 1985 8-13.11; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.12   Conditions.
   Licenses for marijuana establishments shall only be valid so long as each
entity signs a host community agreement with the city, receives a final license
from the Cannabis Control Commission and receives a license from the Cannabis
Board within 12 months and their licensure with the CCC remains valid and
current. The Board may impose additional reasonable restrictions and conditions
as to the operation under the license, and may suspend the license if it deems
that such restrictions or conditions have been violated.
(CBC 1985 8-13.12; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.13   Transferability of License.
   Any license granted under this Section shall be a personal privilege and
shall not be assignable or transferable, without the approval of the Cannabis
Board and the execution of a new host community agreement with the city.
(CBC 1985 8-13.13; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.14   Revocation and Expiration.
   The Cannabis Board may modify, suspend or revoke any license or fine any
license owner for just cause, after reasonable notice and a hearing. The Board
shall, within six months of initial appointment, publish and post
electronically a written policy clarifying activities or business practices and
any other such causes that may subject a license holder to scrutiny, changes to
their license or license suspension and may update such policy at the Board’s
discretion. Unless otherwise specified, each license shall expire annually
after the issuance of such license. Licenses must be renewed annually by the
Board.
(CBC 1985 8-13.14; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.15   Registry.
   The Office of Economic Development shall publish and maintain an online
registry of applicants and licensees under this Section, the applicant or
licensees current status in the approval process, any close associates, any
controlling persons and any investors in the business, any management
agreements entered into, the type(s) of license(s) held or applied for by each
establishment, the owner(s) name(s), the physical address(es) of operation and
whether the applicant or licensee is a participant in the city’s equity
program. The registry shall include currently licensed applicants as well as
all pending applicants. The registry shall be accompanied by a map, showing the
locations of licensed establishments.
(CBC 1985 8-13.15; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.16   Boston City Council Updates.
   The Office of Economic Development shall, each year, submit to the Boston
City Council an update on the city’s equity program, the total number of
licenses issued and any recommended policy changes.
(CBC 1985 8-13.16; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-13.17   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 8-13.17; Ord. 2019 c. 5 § 1)
8-14   PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
8-14.1   Purpose.
   There shall be in the City of Boston a department, known as the Planning
Department (the "Department"), which shall be the city's primary land use
agency charged with planning and designing the city's built environment,
proposing recommended changes to the zoning code, and evaluating and managing
urban development (the "purpose"). In achieving its purpose, the Department
shall develop plans and create strategies aimed at addressing the city's growth
and infrastructural needs. Included among the Department's duties are to
provide staff and technical support for planning or zoning efforts, and to
review all large scale private development proposals within Boston.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 1)
8.14.2   Appointment, Powers and Duties of the Department's Chief of Planning.
   (A)   Appointment. The Department shall be managed and directed by a Chief
of Planning (the "Chief of Planning"). The Chief of Planning shall be appointed
by the Mayor and shall remain in the position pursuant to CBC Section 5-5.1.
The Chief of Planning shall be a resident of Boston for the duration of their
appointment subject to CBC Section
5-5.2.
   (B)   Powers and duties to manage the Department. The Chief of Planning
shall have the powers and duties to manage the Department and its employees,
including hiring employees. The Chief of Planning and the Department's
employees shall be municipal employees of the City of Boston subject to M.G.L.
Chapter 268A and all rules, regulations, laws, ordinances and statutes
applicable to such employees.
   (C)   Chief of Planning as Director of the BPDA. The Chief of Planning may
serve in a dual capacity as Director of each of the Boston Redevelopment
Authority ("BRA") and the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation of
Boston ("EDIC"), which entities together do business as the BPDA (the BRA and
EDIC, together with any successor agency to the BRA and/or the EDIC, are
referred to herein as the "BPDA") and who shall coordinate and integrate the
work of the Department and the BPDA or any successor entities in a manner
consistent with this Section and the BPDA's statutory authority.
   (D)   Specific powers and duties of the Chief of Planning. The Chief of
Planning shall have the following powers and perform the following duties to
further the purpose of the Department:
      (1)   Coordinating and directing all planning efforts by the Department,
all city land use directives, and all related policies and procedures on behalf
of the Department; and
      (2)   Leading the city's coordination with ongoing planning, design,
zoning and development review efforts.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 1)
8-14.3   Powers and Duties
   (A)   The Department shall serve as the technical planning lead for the City
of Boston and shall organize and make such recommendations to the BPDA Board or
any successor entities concerning matters within its responsibility as may be
necessary and appropriate.
   (B)   The Department shall have the following functions with the respective
powers and duties below to further its purpose, which may be amended at the
discretion of the Chief of Planning, subject to any required approval by City
Council as established in the City Charter, to ensure the effective operation
of the Department:
      (1)   The Planning Division. To create comprehensive plans and zoning
regulations to guide urban development citywide, including by: maintaining an
accurate and updated version of the city's Zoning Code and accompanying zoning
maps which shall be available to the public through a publicly accessible
database; and providing staff and technical support for citywide planning and
zoning efforts, including staffing for Boston Zoning Commission activities.
      (2)   The Design Division. To set standards and guidelines for urban
design citywide, and to evaluate architectural, public realm, and site design
of proposed developments and policies, including by: ensuring that projects and
policies meet aesthetic, functional, and community standards for urban design,
with coordination and input from the Boston Civic Design Commission and other
public processes; evaluating aspects such as building appearance, landscape
design, signage, lighting, and their integration into the surrounding
environment; and enhancing the quality, character, and compatibility of
development within neighborhoods across the city to promote and protect the
city's cultural heritage and unique sense of place.
      (3)   The Development Review Division. To evaluate proposed development
projects to ensure coordination with zoning, land use planning, and other
relevant policies related to the built environment, including by: assessing the
community impact of projects related to affordability, resilience, equity, and
other important factors, in order to shape project details, mitigation, and
community benefits; managing application submission, public notifications,
public hearings, review by various City Departments, and final decision-making
and approvals for proposed development projects; and ensuring transparency and
predictability in development review processes pursuant to Article 80 of
Boston's Zoning Code.
      (4)   The Real Estate Division. To manage the planning process for
acquisition and disposition of real estate in coordination with the Public
Facilities Commission and the BPDA Board; to oversee public-private
partnerships to create public value on public land; and to direct construction,
maintenance, coastal protection, leasing, and licensing of public assets with
municipal or non-municipal uses, including properties owned by the BPDA or
successor entities.
      (5)   The Department may also include support services to ensure the
smooth functioning of human resources; financial, legal, technological,
communications; and other functions.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 1)
8-14.4   Residency Exemption for Former BPDA Personnel.
   (A)   Individuals employed by the Department shall be residents of the City
of Boston in accordance with the City of Boston's Residency Ordinance (Ord.
1976, c. 9 (CBC Section 5-5.3) as amended, hereinafter the "Residency
Ordinance").
   (B)   Individuals employed by the BPDA as of June 30, 2024 who are
subsequently hired by any city Department (the "Former BPDA Personnel") with no
break in service between BPDA employment and employment with a City Department,
shall be exempt from the Residency Ordinance if: such Former BPDA Personnel
have already served ten consecutive years with the BPDA (as calculated by the
BPDA as of the date of such Former BPDA Personnel's date of transition to a
City Department); or such Former BPDA Personnel serve ten consecutive years
with the BPDA (as calculated by the BPDA as of the date of such Former BPDA
Personnel's date of transition to a City Department) combined with their
service time with a City Department post-date of transition to the city; or
such Former BPDA Personnel has already become exempt as of June 30, 2024 during
employment with the BPDA pursuant to the provisions of a collective bargaining
agreement between the Former BPDA Employee's bargaining unit and the BPDA.
   (C)   Division (B)'s exemption shall remain in effect during the entirety of
the Former BPDA Personnel's service with the city unless and until the Former
BPDA Personnel's employment with the city ends, or unless and until the Former
BPDA Personnel subsequently becomes covered by any labor or collective
bargaining agreement. At the time of either of these events, the exemption set
forth herein ceases to apply to that Former BPDA Personnel.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 1)
8-14.5   Financial Transfers.
   Upon the effective date of this Section as defined in Subsection
8-14.8 and consistent with the City Charter and state law, and from time to
time thereafter, the BPDA shall transfer funds to the city to fulfill the
purpose of the Department and to fulfill its statutory duties (the "financial
transfers"). The city and the BPDA shall execute a memorandum of agreement (the
“financial transfer MOA”), which financial transfer MOA may be amended from
time to time with a copy submitted to the City Council annually, to memorialize
the process by which the financial transfers shall be effectuated for any
financial transfers completed after the effective date of this Section. The
city shall expend any funds subject to the financial transfers in the manner in
which they are required to be expended. The annual budget filed by the Mayor
may be based on the amount of the financial transfers estimated to be received
by the city in the upcoming fiscal year. The financial transfer MOA, in
conjunction with this Section, shall permit the execution of the financial
transfers without further authorization subject to the City Charter.
(Ord. 2024.c.3 § 1)
8-14.6   Property Transfers.
   The city may transfer to and acquire from the BPDA real property according
to existing statutory processes as they may apply to certain parcels. The city
and the BPDA may execute one or more memorandum of agreement to memorialize the
process by which certain real property transfers shall be effectuated and to
facilitate the transfers of already acquired property owned by the BPDA at the
date of passage of this Section. This section shall constitute any requisite
City Council approval of real property acquisitions and transfers subject to
the City Charter or other applicable Massachusetts state law.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 1)
8-14.7   Planning Department Performance Reporting.
   To ensure adequate transparency and oversight throughout a transition
period, the Department, in consultation with the BPDA, or its successor entity,
shall be required to write and publish an annual report assessing success in
advancing the express goals of newly repurposed land use and planning tools,
including affordability, resilience, and equity. This requirement for an annual
report and hearing shall sunset after five years.
   (A)   Annual report. The Department shall submit an annual report. The
annual report shall include an assessment of the Department's performance in
achieving affordability, resilience, and equity during citywide planning and
zoning initiatives. The annual report submitted under this Section shall be
made publicly available on the city's website upon submission to the Council.
The annual planning report submitted pursuant to this Section shall include all
of, but is not limited to, the following: documentation of the Department's
progress and initiatives in furthering its purpose and stated goals over the
last year, including ongoing and new planning and zoning initiatives related to
increasing affordability and equity, criteria guiding resiliency, and trends
summarizing development review outcomes and operations; goals and ongoing and
new initiatives for the following fiscal year; and hiring and employment
trends, including demographics regarding Department personnel with metrics for
increasing diversity.
   (B)   Financial reporting. The BPDA, or successor agency, shall submit
annually to the Mayor and City Council an audited annual financial statement,
which shall include summaries of revenue and expenses in millions with a
complete list of assets and ground leases, capital expenses, and developer
mitigation funds. The audited annual financial statement shall be made publicly
available on the city's website upon submission to the City Council. In
addition, the city shall provide copies to the Council, on an annual basis, of
any amended financial MOA between the BPDA and the city.
   (C)   Annual City Council hearing. No later than March 31 of each year, the
City Council shall hold a hearing to discuss the annual report, which may
include an additional independent evaluation of the performance and
effectiveness of the Department. The annual hearing shall allow public
testimony regarding findings in both the annual report and annual evaluation of
the Department.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 2)
8-14.8   Effective Date.
   The provisions of this Section shall take effect at the commencement of
fiscal year 2025.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 3)
8-14.9   Partial Invalidity.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions of this Section, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 2024 c. 3 § 4)
CHAPTER IX: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
9-1   HOUSING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
   
9-1.1   Board and Divisions
   
9-1.2   Powers and Duties
   
9-1.3   Inspection and Re-Inspection of Rental Units
   
9-1.4   Rental Dwelling Unit Delivery Standards
9-2   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES DIVISION
   
9-2.1   Weights and Measures Division
9-3   BUILDING DEPARTMENT
   
9-3.1   Duties of Building Commissioner
   
9-3.2   Street Numbers
   
9-3.3   Illumination of Residential Buildings
   
9-3.4   Building Limits
9-4   BOARD OF APPEAL
   
9-4.1   Board Members
   
9-4.2   Powers and Duties
9-5   ZONING COMMISSION
   
9-5.1   Board, Powers and Duties
   
9-5.2   Designating Zoning Commissioners as Special Municipal Employees
9-6   BEACON HILL ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION
9-7   BACK BAY ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION
9-8   BOARD OF EXAMINERS
   
9-8.1   Appointment, Term, Compensation
   
9-8.2   Powers and Duties
9-9   INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   
9-9.1   Establishment
   9-9.2—9-9.3   Reserved
   
9-9.4   Empowered to Accept Delegation
   
9-9.5   Board of Appeal and Board of Examiners
   
9-9.6   Administrative Units
   
9-9.7   The Building and Housing Inspection Departments
   
9-9.8   Site Cleanliness Licenses
   
9-9.9   Auto Shops Licenses
   
9-9.10   Inspection of Pool Roofs and Ceilings
   
9-9.11   Window Falls Prevention Program in the Department of Health and
Hospitals
   
9-9.12   Inspection of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances of Buildings Requiring
Periodic Inspection
   
9-9.13   Regulating Access to Roof Areas of Buildings with Residential Units
   
9-9.14   Regulation of Student Housing
   
9-9.15   Retail Residential Kitchens
9-10   ARSON PREVENTION COMMISSION
   
9-10.1   Composition of Commission
   
9-10.2   Powers and Duties
   
9-10.3   Other City Agencies
   
9-10.4   Rules and Regulations
   
9-10.5   Severability
9-11   SECURITY IN ELDERLY/HANDICAPPED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
   
9-11.1   Definitions
   
9-11.2   Security Requirements for Elderly/Handicapped Multi-Family Housing
Developments
   
9-11.3   Criteria for a Security Plan
   
9-11.4   Process for Approval of a Security Plan
   
9-11.5   Protection from Rent Increases
   
9-11.6   Enforcement
   
9-11.7   Non-Liability of the City
   
9-11.8   Severability
9-12   SECURITY FOR STUDENT HOUSING
   
9-12.1   Definitions
   
9-12.2   Security Requirements for Student Housing Where There is Probable
Cause to Believe That There is a Risk to the Occupants or Neighbors of Such
Housing
   
9-12.3   Criteria for a Security Plan
   
9-12.4   Process for Approval of a Security Plan
   
9-12.5   Enforcement
   
9-12.6   Non-Liability of the City
   
9-12.7   Severability
9-13   PROBLEM PROPERTIES TASK FORCE
   
9-13.1   Establishing a Problem Properties Task Force
9-14   SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS
   
9-14.1   Purpose
   
9-14.2   Definitions
   
9-14.3   Short-Term Residential Rentals in the City
   
9-14.4A   Ineligible Residential Units
   
9-14.4B   Residential Units Not Subject to Certain Provisions of this Chapter
   
9-14.5   Requirements for Short-Term Rentals
   
9-14.6   Short-Term Rental Registration Process; Certifications; Fee
   
9-14.7   Room Occupancy Excise
   
9-14.8   Complaint Process; Violations
   
9-14.9   Penalties
   
9-14.10   Enforcement
   
9-14.11   Data Sharing
   
9-14.12   Regulations
Cross-reference:
   Public Buildings; Accessibility for Handicapped, Section 21-4
9-1   HOUSING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-1.1   Board and Divisions.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Department, known as the Housing
Inspection Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the
Housing Inspection, consisting of an Officer, known as the Commissioner of
Housing Inspection, who shall be Chair of the Board, another Officer known as
the Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection and the Building Commissioner,
ex officio. The Commissioner of Housing Inspection and the Assistant
Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall each be appointed by the Mayor for a
term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected and shall devote his or her
whole time to the duties of his or her Office. The Commissioner of Housing
Inspection shall exclusively have the powers and perform the duties of a
Department head with respect to the making of contracts and the appointment,
suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates for the
Housing Inspection Department. In the event of the absence or disability of the
Commissioner of Housing Inspection or of vacancy in his or her Office, the
Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall act as Chair of the Housing
Inspection Board, and shall have the powers conferred, and perform the duties
imposed, upon the Commissioner.
   (B)   There shall be in the Housing Inspection Department an Inspection
Division, an Enforcement Division and such other Divisions, if any, as the
Housing Inspection Board shall, from time to time, adjudge necessary for the
proper conduct of the Department. The Inspection Division shall be under the
immediate charge of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection; and the Enforcement
Division shall be under the immediate charge of the Assistant Commissioner of
Housing Inspection, subject to the general supervision of the Commissioner.
(Ord. 1965 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 1;
CBC 1985 9-1.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3
9-1.2   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   (1)   The Commissioner of Housing Inspection, shall have the powers
and perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed on a Board of
Health by M.G.L. Chapter 83, Section 12 and Chapter 111, Section 127, by
Chapter 111, Sections 122, 123, 124 and 125 insofar, but only insofar, as said
Sections 122, 123, 124 and 125 apply to places of human habitation, and by
Chapter 111, Sections 127A and 127B insofar, but only insofar, as said Sections
127A and 127B relate:
         (a)   To enforcing so much of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being
105 CMR 400 and 410, as concerns standards of fitness for places of human
habitation, housing and sanitation standards for farm labor camps and
requirements for the disposal of sanitary sewage in unsewered areas; and
         (b)   To adopting such public health regulations, not inconsistent
with the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code or other provisions of law, as in the
opinion of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection may be necessary to make and
keep all places of human habitation fit for such habitation.
      (2)   The Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall also have the powers
and perform the duties conferred or imposed upon the Board of Health of the
city, or the Health Commissioner of the City, by Sections 13, 14, 19, 20, 21
and 22 of Chapter 382 of the Acts of 1885, as amended, by Chapter 185 of the
Acts of 1897, by Chapter 219 of the Acts of 1897, as amended, by Section 128 of
Chapter 550 of the Acts of 1907, as amended, and by Section 116 or any other
provision of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR.
      (3)   It shall further be the duty of the Commissioner of Housing
Inspection:
         (a)   To receive all complaints of violations, in or about places of
human habitation, of any and all statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations
enacted for the preservation of health or safety in or about places of human
habitation;
         (b)   To refer in writing to the Building Commissioner or the Fire
Commissioner, as the case may be, for investigation and prosecution all
complaints of violations of the Boston Building Code and the Boston Fire
Prevention Code and to maintain written contact with said Commissioners with
respect thereto; and
         (c)   To inspect places of human habitation and enforce therein the
provisions of law specified in the preceding sentences of this Section and all
other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations enacted for the preservation
of health in or about such places.
   (B)   It shall remain the duty and responsibility of the Building and Fire
Commissioners, respectively, to enforce compliance with the Boston Building
Code and the Boston Fire Prevention Code. To aid them in discharging such duty
but without any lessening of their respective responsibilities, the Enforcement
Division of the Housing Inspection Department may offer them, and they may
accept, assistance designed to unify action upon complaints received by the
Commissioner of Housing Inspection.
(Ord. 1968 c. 10 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 §
2; CBC 1985 9-1.2)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 83, Section 12; M.G.L. Chapter 111, Sections 122—125, 127A
and 127B; St. 1885 c. 382 § § 13, 14, 19, 22; St. 1897 c. 185; St. 1897 c. 219;
St. 1907 c. 550 § 128; St. 1938 c. 479 § 116; St. 1962 c. 314; Ord. 1959 c. 3;
Ord. ss 9-1.3; Ord. Section 11-4
9-1.3   Inspection and Re-Inspection of Rental Units.
   (A)   The purpose of this Section is to implement a proactive rental
inspection program that maximizes the effectiveness of city resources in rental
property code enforcement. It identifies all rental units in the city and their
owners on a continuous and recurring basis in order to accommodate the
transient nature of the rental market, and prioritizes notorious problem
properties in order to economically target city resources toward chronic and
priority offenders. It also provides an alternative compliance plan process
available to responsible owners who consistently comply with city and
commonwealth code in order to expedite them through an inspection process aimed
at maintaining a uniform minimum standard for conditions exhibited by rental
properties in Boston in the interests of public health and safety.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED INSPECTOR. Any ISD inspector or any other person who:
         (a)   Is a commonwealth-registered Sanitarian or a commonwealth-
certified Health Officer or a commonwealth-certified Home Inspector, or has
proof of training acceptable to ISD; and
         (b)   Has demonstrated a proficiency in the application of the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code by satisfactorily completing the ISD certificate
program for qualifying authorized professionals to perform inspections under
this Subsection, and has been issued a certificate of completion.
      COMMISSIONER. Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or a
designee.
      DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
      GREEN TICKET LAW. M.G.L. Chapter 40U.
      OWNER. A for profit or not for profit individual or corporation, an Agent
of a for profit or not for profit individual or corporation or any person
having legal charge of or authority over a private dwelling, tenement, lodging
house or other residential rental property dedicated to residential use.
      PROBLEM PROPERTY. As defined by Ordinance 16-55.2, as it may be adopted
and amended from time to time, a problem property is a property that meets the
following criteria and is designated as such following recommendation by the
problem properties Task Force:
         (a)   The Boston Police Department has been called to the property not
fewer than four times within the preceding 12-month period for any incident
involving any arrestable offense including, but not limited to, disturbing the
peace, trespassing, underage drinking or assault;
         (b)   The Air Pollution Control Commission has received not fewer than
four sustained complaints for noise within the preceding 12-month period; or
         (c)   The Inspectional Services Department or the Public Health
Commission have received not fewer than four sustained complaints within the
preceding 12-month period for noxious, noisome or unsanitary conditions.
        RENTAL UNIT. A non-owner occupied room or group of related rooms within
a dwelling used or intended for use by one family or household for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating. A RENTAL UNIT shall also mean a non-owner
occupied condominium unit. Dwelling units that have current lodging house
licenses issued by the Licensing Board for the city shall not be considered as
rental units for the purposes of this Section, and will continue to be annually
licensed and inspected pursuant to M.G.L Chapter 140, Sections 22 and 25.
   (C)   (1)   All owners of private residential rental housing units
(“owners”), including condominium units, in the city shall register no later
than July 1 of each year with the Inspectional Services Department (“ISD”)
identifying the property by street address and the number of units that they
own at each address. An owner of a rental unit, who does not reside within the
subject dwelling, shall post and maintain or cause to be posted and maintained
on such dwelling adjacent to the mailboxes for such dwelling or elsewhere in
the interior of such dwelling in a location visible to the residents a notice
constructed of durable material, not less than 20 square inches in size,
bearing his or her name, address and telephone number. If the owner is a realty
trust or partnership, the name, address and telephone number of the managing
trustee or partner shall be posted. If the owner is a corporation, the name,
address and telephone number of the president of the corporation shall be
posted. Where the owner employs a manager or agent who does not reside in such
dwelling, such manager or agent’s name, address and telephone number shall also
be included in the notice. P.O. boxes do not satisfy the address requirement of
this Section. All owners must register each rental unit annually with ISD, and
must attest to and affirm that they are familiar with their obligations to
comply with this Section; the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410); the
commonwealth’s Building Code (780 CMR); the city’s Zoning Code; federal,
commonwealth and local fair housing regulations; and all other regulations
applicable to residential dwellings, and that they intend to comply with said
regulations, by signing a form provided by and approved by the Commissioner of
ISD. An owner owning multiple units in the same building may submit one form
representing all said units. Any owner residing outside of the commonwealth
must designate a Boston based resident agent authorized to accept service on
the owner’s behalf.
      (2)   All rental unit registrations shall be recorded in an electronic
database of all owners for an initial registration fee of $25, and annual
renewal fees of $15 for each rental unit. All owner-occupied dwellings
containing six or fewer rental units shall not be required to pay an initial
registration or annual renewal fees set forth in this division (C). The
provisions of this division (C) shall be applied retroactively, and any owner
of a rental unit who has paid initial registration fees or annual renewal fees
to ISD, but who would have otherwise qualified for an exemption of such fees at
the time of payment, may submit a written request to ISD seeking the
reimbursement of such monies. The city shall notify eligible landlords of their
right to a refund of the registration fee by a direct mailing. Nothing in this
division (C) shall relieve any owner of a rental unit of the duty to register
their rental units with ISD, regardless of whether the owner is exempt from the
requirement to pay annual renewal fees. The Commissioner shall work to employ
technology to the extent possible in order to optimize the fairness and
effectiveness of the registration process in accordance with division (Q)
below.
   (D)   (1)   The following rental units shall be exempt from the inspection
requirements of this Section:
         (a)   Rental units owned or operated by federal, commonwealth or city
government; and
         (b)   Rental units located in dwellings containing six or fewer rental
units, one of which is occupied by the owner. ISD will provide exempt unit
owners with education materials on all code requirements relative to their
units on a regular basis.
      (2)   All non-exempt rental units must be inspected at least once every
five years. In order to develop the inspection plan for the first year, and
subsequent years of the five-year inspections cycle, ISD shall utilize data
that may include, but shall not be limited to, inspection records, court
records, documented constituent complaints and any information related to the
status of the property with the Problem Property Task Force or information
compiled by said Task Force to prioritize a list of properties for inspection
in each neighborhood. Owners may request that ISD conduct the inspection or
said owner may engage an “authorized” non-ISD inspector meeting the
qualifications enumerated in division (A) above. The procedures and fees for
such inspections are set forth in divisions (E), (I), (J) and (K) below. Annual
comprehensive apartment inspections conducted by the Boston Housing Authority
leased housing program or the Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership leased
housing program, or by other federal, commonwealth or city inspection programs
that are accepted by ISD as being substantially equivalent, may be used to
satisfy the five-year inspection requirement. ISD shall perform periodic and
random audit inspections of no less than 5% of the “authorized” inspections
that are filed with ISD.
   (E)   Residential rental unit owners may fulfill the requirements of this
Subsection by requesting an inspection from ISD, within 30 calendar days from
issuance of an inspection notice, or notifying ISD within 30 calendar days that
the inspection will be completed utilizing one of the alternate methods
outlined in division (D) above. Non-ISD inspection reports must be submitted
subject to the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner according to
division (Q) below. Failed Non-ISD inspections must be accompanied by a
compliance plan acceptable to ISD that will bring the subject rental unit into
compliance with the minimum standards for human habitation for a residential
dwelling as set forth in the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410), as it
may be adopted and amended from time to time. All inspections shall include a
sworn statement and shall be signed by an ISD Housing Inspector, Boston Housing
Authority Housing Inspector, a Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership Housing
Inspector or an “authorized inspector”. An authorized inspector shall be
prohibited from charging more than 133% of the fee charged by the city for an
inspection performed under these Sections.
   (F)   (1)   An owner of a unit or units may apply to the Commissioner for a
“five-year” alternative compliance plan under this Section to inspect a rental
unit once every five years for the compliance with the provisions of the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code. An owner seeking such an alternative plan shall
file an application in a format approved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner
shall issue written findings regarding the approval or denial of an alternative
plan within 30 business days of such application, and shall base the written
findings on factors including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A review of the owner’s history of property management on file
with the city and a management plan submitted for the property;
         (b)   A review of the unit’s history of compliance with the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code;
         (c)   A site visit of the property for which the exemption is sought;
and
         (d)   If relevant, a history of compliance with this Subsection.
      (2)   An alternative plan approved by the Commissioner shall be subject
to revocation following a hearing held by ISD if the unit subject to the
alternative plan has one or more violations of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code
and if, upon proper notice of those violations to the owner, the violations
have not been corrected in the time provided in such notice. An owner approved
for an alternative plan shall be required to maintain maintenance records for
any and all alternative plan units for the duration of the effectiveness of the
alternative plan, and such records shall be available for review by ISD during
regular business hours or upon reasonable notice to the owner. An owner
approved for an alternative plan shall be required to maintain compliance with
all of the requirements of this Subsection.
      (3)   (a)   The Commissioner shall charge a fee of:
            1.   Fifty dollars for the first unit for a five-year alternative
compliance plan from this Subsection; and
            2.   An additional $10 for each additional unit in the same
building up to a maximum of $3,000 per building and if two or more buildings
comprise a complex owned by the same owner then the fee shall not exceed
$6,000.
         (b)   An owner may apply for an extension of an alternative compliance
plan upon expiration; provided that the owner shall complete the entire
alternative compliance plan application process and ISD may cause 10% to 20% of
the units to be inspected pursuant to this Subsection. The Commissioner shall
follow the same process and procedure as for an original alternative compliance
plan application. Alternative compliance plan extensions shall be granted
contingently upon a site visit, if ISD determines it is needed, and a favorable
review of the unit history dating back to its last inspection. Consistent
records of ownership and compliance shall be weighed heavily in the granting of
alternative compliance plan extensions and may render such an extension a
formality at the discretion of ISD barring any documented circumstances
examined on a case by case basis.
   (G)   Any rental unit determined to be a problem property as defined by
Ordinance 16-55.2, as it may be adopted and amended from time to time, must
annually request an inspection from ISD. Each owner of a problem property shall
also file with ISD an annual management plan, within 30 days of its
classification as a problem property, outlining the remediation of any
outstanding code violations or other persistent conditions requiring the
landlord’s affirmative response as identified by the Task Force. Said
management Plan shall identify the deficiencies in the property, identify
consultants and contractors engaged to proceed with any remediation work,
detail any proposal made by the contractors or consultants and set out a
timeline over which the work will be completed.
   (H)   (1)   Residential rental property owners who fail to register or who
repeatedly fail to comply with notices of violations, or warnings of
noncompliance, or municipal fines, shall be assessed points based on the
following schedule at the time of registration or at the time the violation is
found (property owners cannot be assessed points under more than one of the
following for the same violation):
         (a)   Inclusion on the problem property list, (two points);
         (b)   Failure to comply with an ISD notice of violation under the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code (105 CMR 400 and 410), the commonwealth’s Building
Code (780 CMR) or Boston Zoning Code, within the time frame provided, (one
point);
         (c)   Failure to make a good faith effort to correct emergency
violations after two inspections, (two points); and
         (d)   Failure to register and/ or complete the inspection requirements
of this Subsection, (one point).
      (2)   Upon being assessed with points in excess of the amount allowed, as
described in Table 1 below, ISD shall notify owners of their classification as
a “chronic offender” by mail, return receipt requested. ISD shall notify owners
of each point assessed by mail, return receipt requested. The owner shall have
14 days to request a hearing to contest each point assessment or their
classification as a “chronic offender”. Chronic offenders are subject to fines
of $300, or the maximum allowed, for each subsequent point received in a 12-
month rolling period, and may also be subject to court prosecution under the
applicable codes and regulations. Chronic offenders shall be required to
request an inspection of each rental unit once every three years, and it shall
be mandatory that ISD conduct said three-year inspection. Chronic offenders
with less than two points in a rolling 12-month period shall have the chronic
offenders classification removed on the last day of the twelfth month following
their classification.
 
TABLE 1
# Rental Units Owned Point Threshold in a 12- Point Threshold in a 16-Month
                     Month Period             Period
1 to 50 units        6                        10
51 to 500 units      10                       16
501 or more units    14                       24
 
   (I)   (1)   All inspections performed under these Sections shall be
performed in accordance with the requirements of the commonwealth’s Sanitary
Code and recorded on a form approved by the ISD. The Commissioner shall charge
a filing fee of $15 for any registration or sworn statement filed by an owner,
authorized inspector or other agent of the owner; said filing fees shall be
capped at a maximum of $2,500 per building or $5,000 per complex.
      (2)   For an inspection performed by ISD, the Commissioner shall charge a
fee of $50 per unit for buildings of one-to-three units and $75 per unit for
all other buildings, including condominium units. This inspection fee shall
provide up to two inspections, for three or more inspections, the Commissioner
shall charge a fee of $50 per inspection for each rental unit inspected.
   (J)   Before conducting an inspection pursuant to this Subsection of an
occupied unit, reasonable advance notice shall be provided to the occupant in
writing. Results of the inspection shall be provided to both the owner and the
occupant. If an owner’s agent is denied access by the occupant for purposes of
conducting an inspection pursuant to this Subsection, the owner of said unit
shall notify ISD of such denial within seven calendar days. Such denial shall
be noted on a sworn, dated statement filed by an authorized inspector. If any
person is denied access to a unit for the purposes of conducting such an
inspection by the occupant, then ISD shall verify and document in writing such
denial, which shall exempt the owner from the inspection requirements of this
Subsection for the period of one year. Denial of access by the occupant shall
neither deem the dwelling to be in compliance with the commonwealth’s Sanitary
Code nor bar the occupant from exercising legal rights. The Commissioner may
cause the unit to be inspected pursuant to the terms herein in the manner
provided for in the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code.
   (K)   All authorized inspectors shall perform all inspections in a manner
consistent with this Section and shall refer to Inspectional Services
Department any issue involving imminent life safety or health problems.
Authorized inspectors accept the designation to perform these inspections with
the understanding that the failure to adhere to the standards of good faith,
fair dealing and honesty will result in the revocation of the status as
authorized to perform these inspections, action against the professional
license and if relevant, notification to authorities for criminal prosecution.
ISD shall immediately revoke the approval of any authorized inspector, or owner
who has been granted an inspection waiver, who misrepresents the condition of a
unit or fails to inspect a unit with due care, misrepresents any information on
the application form or any form or document submitted under this Section, or
for any reason demonstrating a failure to honor the requirement of good faith
and fair dealing. An authorized inspector may request a hearing once aggrieved
by such a revocation of approval. A hearing shall be held within 30 days upon a
written request from the aggrieved party.
   (L)    Failure to comply with any provisions of this Section shall be
punishable by a fine as set out in division (T) below.
   (M)   Any and all notices, statements, inspection forms, applications
including supporting documentation and any other documents concerning an
inspection pursuant to this Subsection shall be a matter of public record.
   (N)   In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the inspection programs
delineated herein, the Commissioner shall annually prepare a report detailing
the activities of the program no later than July 31 of each calendar year,
beginning June 30, 2014. The annual written report shall include the following
items:
      (1)   The number of registration statements received by the Commissioner
during the prior 12-month period;
      (2)   The number of owners issued fines or citations by ISD for:
         (a)   Failing to initially file a registration statement; and
         (b)   For failing to file a registration statement within 30 days of
written notice from ISD.
      (3)   The total number of inspections performed by ISD inspectors during
the prior 12 months, along with a district categorized list of the number of
inspections performed in such district during such period;
      (4)   The total number of inspections performed on problem properties, as
defined in Ordinance 16-55.2, along with a breakdown by district of the number
of problem properties inspected in such district; and
      (5)   Such other information as may be requested by the City Council
   (O)   The provisions of this Subsection may be enforced in accordance with
the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D;
provided, that this Section shall not preclude the city from proceeding to
restrain a violation by injunction. The provisions of this Section may also be
enforced according to M.G.L. Chapter 40U as accepted by the city, also known as
the “Green Ticket” Law.
   (P)   Transfer or ownership of rental units must be reported to ISD within
30 days of closing. New property owners must register within 30 days of closing
and must submit a reasonable maintenance plan that identifies and address the
any significant code deficiencies within the subject property. If the property
was acquired during its inspection year and the inspections did not occur
before the transfer of ownership, then the new owner must, within 90 days, must
complete any required inspection or apply for an alternative compliance plan.
   (Q)   The Commissioner shall promulgate written rules and regulations
necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of this Subsection. The
Commissioner will work to employ and implement technology to the extent
possible in order to optimize the fairness and effectiveness of the
registration and inspection processes within these rules, which may be revised
from time to time.
   (R)   If any provision of this Subsection shall be held to be invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
   (S)   The provisions of this Subsection shall be effective 120 days after
its date of passage.
   (T)   Any failure to comply with this Subsection will result in the
assessment of a fine of $300 per month beginning in the first month in which
the property is found not to be in compliance and continuing for each
subsequent month thereafter.
(Ord. 1984 cs. 26, 39; CBC 1985 9-1.3; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2003 c. 16 § 1;
Ord. 2012 c. 9; Ord. 2014 c. 3)
9-1.4   Rental Dwelling Unit Delivery Standards.
   Whenever a rental unit is turned over to a new tenant, said rental unit must
be delivered in a safe and sanitary condition. Absentee owners must provide the
occupants and city officials with appropriate contact information. All rental
units must be in compliance with the requirements established herein at the
time of delivery to a new tenant. Compliance with requirements of this Section
does not supersede the property owner’s requirements, under Subsection 9-1.3,
Re-Inspection of Rental Units, to request a rental unit inspection within 45
days of turnover, to ensure that the rented unit meets all of the minimum
requirements of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410). Compliance with
either or both Sections does not restrict the right of any occupant to, at any
time, request that the Inspectional Services Department conduct an inspection
of his or her rental premises for violations of any applicable code.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE. Meeting all the requirements of this Section. It shall also
mean correcting any violations of this Section in a competent fashion and
restoring all parts of the rental dwelling unit, to a condition complying with
this Section. COMPLIANCE shall also mean, in those cases where licenses or
permits are required to perform work necessary to correct the violations, such
as, but not limited to, building, plumbing and wiring, that the work has been
completed in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
      GARBAGE. The animal, vegetable or other organic waste resulting from the
handling, preparing, cooking, consumption or cultivation of food, and
containers and cans, which have contained food unless such containers and cans
have been cleaned or prepared for recycling.
      MEANS OF EGRESS. A continuous and unobstructed path of travel from any
point in a dwelling to an abutting public way in accordance with the
commonwealth’s Building Code, 780 CMR 1002.
      NEW TENANT. A person who has, within the previous 24 hours, occupied for
the first time a rental dwelling unit under the terms of a rental housing
agreement with the property owner/agent for the use and occupancy of any
dwelling unit for a period of time more than 30 days.
      OCCUPANT. Every person living or sleeping in a dwelling pursuant to a
rental housing agreement with the property owner/agent.
      PROPERTY OWNER/AGENT. The individual or business entity which holds title
to any dwelling unit, including without limitation, a person, partnership,
corporation or trust. For purposes of this Section, the rights and duties of
the landlord hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls
or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the landlord.
      PROVIDE. To supply and pay for, except where an applicable statute or
regulation provides otherwise.
      RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. The part of a building that is rented for use as a
home, residence or sleeping place by one or more persons who maintain a
household, in accordance with the requirements of the commonwealth’s Building
Code, 780 CMR, and the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
and includes, but is not limited to, such materials as paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, grass
clippings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery, dust and the
residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials.
      SAFE. Free from conditions which may endanger or materially impair the
health or safety and well-being of an occupant or the general public, as set
forth in 105 CMR 410.750, but may include any other condition so certified by
the commonwealth’s Department of Public Health, to be violations which may
expose or subject to harm, the health or safety and the well-being, of an
occupant or the public.
      VIOLATION. Any condition in a rental unit, which fails to meet any
requirement of this Section.
   (B)   Requirements. Property owners/agents shall deliver rental units to new
tenants in a clean, safe condition, in compliance with the provisions of
Subsection 9-1.3, this Subsection, the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, 105 CMR
410 and with all other applicable codes and ordinances. Rental units shall be
delivered meeting the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   Clean and sanitary. The common areas and the interior of rental
units must be in a clean and sanitary condition, free of garbage, rubbish or
other filth causing sickness, at the time of delivery to a new tenant.
      (2)   Posting of ownership information. The owner of a dwelling which is
rented for residential use, who does not reside therein and who does not employ
a manager or agent for such dwelling who resides therein, shall post and
maintain or cause to be posted and maintained on such dwelling in a location
visible to the residents, a notice constructed of durable materials not less
than 20 square inches in size, bearing his or her name, actual street address
and mailing address and current, active telephone number. Post Office box
address shall not satisfy these requirements. If the owner is a realty trust or
partnership, said information for the managing trustee or partner shall be
posted. If the owner is a corporation, such information of the corporation
shall be posted. Where the owner employs a manager or agent who does not reside
in such dwelling, such information for said manager or agents shall also be
included in the notice. (See M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 3S.)
      (3)   Smoke detectors. Property owners shall provide and maintain smoke
detectors in or adjacent to sleeping areas as required by the regulations of
the commonwealth’s Board of Fire Prevention (527 CMR) or of the commonwealth’s
Fire Marshal. If any dwelling is found by the Boston Fire Department to be
adequately equipped with smoke detectors, such findings shall satisfy the
requirements of this Section.
      (4)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Upon delivery of a rental unit to a new
tenant, the property owner must provide and maintain functioning carbon
monoxide detectors in accordance with the requirements of 527 CMR 31.
      (5)   Safe. Rental units must be delivered free of conditions which may
endanger or materially impair the health or safety and well being of an
occupant, pursuant to 105 CMR 410.750. These conditions include, but are not
limited to, failure to provide heat; failure to provide adequate exits; failure
to provide a toilet; the existence of structural or other defects that may
expose the occupant or anyone else to fire, burns, shock, accident or other
dangers; or impairment to health or safety.
   (C)   Enforcement process. 
      (1)   To seek relief under this Section, a new tenant shall request an
inspection within 24 hours of moving into a rental dwelling unit. Inspectional
Services will cause that rental unit to be inspected no later than two business
days of receiving the request.
      (2)   The scope of an inspection conducted pursuant to this Section shall
be limited to the requirements of this Section, and the inspection results will
be noted on an approved inspection form developed for the purposes of this
Section. If the inspection reveals one or more violations of this Section, said
violation shall be cited and enforced under this Section and under the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410. The cited property owner or Agent
shall be provided with no less than 24 hours and no more than 14 days to
correct said violations, and said violation shall be considered as one offense,
punishable by a fine of up to $300, or up to the maximum fine allowed by law,
if that amount is higher than $300.
      (3)   A follow-up inspection shall be conducted within five days of the
expiration of the compliance deadline established by Inspectional Services. If
the follow-up inspection reveals that the violation remains outstanding, that
failure to correct shall constitute a second offense punishable by an
additional fine of up to $300, or up to the maximum fine allowed by law, if
that amount is higher than $300. After the expiration of the compliance
deadline established by Inspectional Services, each subsequent day’s failure to
correct the violations shall be considered a separate offense punishable by up
to $300 or up to the maximum fine allowed by law.
   (D)   Inspection checklist available to the public. Inspectional Services
shall develop and make available the inspection checklist that may be used to
verify that a rental unit meets the requirements of this Section prior to
delivery to new tenants.
   (E)   Exemptions. Housing units owned or operated by federal, commonwealth
or city Agencies shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   The provisions of this Section may be enforced in accordance with
the non-criminal disposition process of M.G.L. Channel 40, Section 21D;
provided that this Section shall not preclude the city from proceeding to
restrain a violation by seeking an injunction. The city reserves the right to
enforce noncompliance with the requirements of this Section, through the Boston
Housing Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, where it shall seek
correction of the violations and payment of any outstanding fines under this
Section.
      (2)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority
to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these
Sections.
      (3)   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(CBC 1985 9-1.4; Ord. 2006 c. 5)
9-2   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES DIVISION.
9-2.1   Weights and Measures Division.
   There shall be in the Housing Inspection Department a Division, known as the
Weights and Measures Division, as provided in the charter as that term is
defined in M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 5.
(Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 §
10)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 1.5
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all power and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department by
Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-3   BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-3.1   Duties of Building Commissioner.
   (A)   The Building Department shall be under the charge of the Building
Commissioner, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by
statute, and may appoint not exceeding 30 Building Inspectors for duty in his
or her Department.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall also have the powers and perform the
duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Wire Commissioner and on the Fire
Commissioner as successor to the Wire Commissioner, and shall carry out the
provisions and requirements of law relating to wires and inspection of wires
and the installation and use of electrical conductors and appliances in
buildings in the city.
(St. 1871 c. 280; St. 1938 c. 479 § 109; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 20; Rev. Ord. 1961 c.
9 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 50; CBC 1985 9-3.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 11-4
9-3.2   Street Numbers.
   The Building Commissioner shall assign a street number to each building on a
street and shall require such number to be affixed to or inscribed on the
building by the owner, and may determine the form, size and material of any
such number and the place and mode of affixing or inscribing it.
(Ord. 1954 c. 9 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 51; CBC 1985
9-3.2)
9-3.3   Illumination of Residential Buildings.
   (A)   It is the intent of this Section to protect the public safety by
assuring adequate illumination of all doorways, alleys, passageways and
entrances to and from residential buildings used by the occupants thereof as a
means of access and egress. In adopting rules and standards, the Building
Commissioner and the Commissioner of Housing Inspection may consider existing
public lighting and shall endeavor to protect abutting buildings from existing
glare.
   (B)   Every owner of a building containing four or more dwelling units,
including, but not limited to, apartment buildings, apartment hotels, boarding
and lodging houses, fraternities, sororities and dormitories, shall provide
adequate illumination between sunset and sunrise of all doorways and entrance
areas, on the front, rear or sides of such building at or with principal access
from grade, in accordance with reasonable rules and standards to be promulgated
by the city’s Building Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection,
within 60 days following enactment of such rules and standards. In addition,
such owners shall provide reasonable illumination of parking areas adjacent to
such buildings and containing parking spaces required under the provisions of
the Boston Zoning Code.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection are
hereby authorized and directed within 30 days after the effective date of this
Section to hold a public hearing on the adoption of proposed rules and
standards hereunder, such hearing to be advertised by at least seven days
notice in a paper of general circulation within the city, such notice to
contain the date, time and place of said public hearing and terms of the
proposed rules and standards. Following such public hearing, the Building
Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall issue final rules and
standards no later than 60 days thereafter. Any owner deeming himself or
herself to be aggrieved shall have a right of appeal and review in accordance
with the provisions of the Boston Building Code to the same extent as if said
rules and standards were an integral part of said code.
(Ord. 1973 c. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 52; CBC 1985 9-3.3)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1938 c. 479; Ordinances, Title 9, Chapters 1, 7
9-3.4   Building Limits.
   The building limits referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 202 of the
Boston Building Code shall continue as established by Chapter 4 of the
Ordinances of 1913 as follows:
All that portion of the city which is included within a line beginning at the
intersection of the boundary lines between the City of Boston and the Cities of
Somerville and Everett; thence by the boundary lines between the City of Boston
and the Cities of Everett and Chelsea to the intersection with the center line
of Trumbull Street extended northerly; thence by said center line of Trumbull
Street extended, the center line of Trumbull Street and said center line
extended southerly to the Harbor line; thence by said Harbor line to its
intersection with the easterly line of Pier No. 5 belonging to the Boston and
Albany Railroad Company; thence by a straight line across Boston Harbor to its
intersection with the Harbor line at the easterly corner of Pier No. 1, in
South Boston; thence by the Harbor line in the northerly, easterly and
southerly portions of South Boston to an angle in said Harbor line nearly
opposite the intersection of the center line of Columbia Road with the center
line of location of the Old Colony Railroad; thence by a straight line to the
said intersection; and by the center lines of Columbia Road, Blue Hill Avenue,
Seaver Street, Columbus Avenue, Atherton and Mozart Streets, Chestnut Avenue,
Sheridan, Centre and Perkins Streets, South Huntington Avenue, Castleton Street
and the center line of said Castleton Street extended to the boundary line
between the City of Boston and the Town of Brookline; thence by said boundary
line to a point therein 100 feet southwest of Washington Street in the Brighton
district; thence by a line parallel to and 100 feet southwesterly from the
center line of Washington Street to an angle formed by the intersection of said
line with the extension of a line parallel to and 100 feet northwesterly of the
center line of Market Street; thence by said extension and said line parallel
to and 100 feet northwesterly of the center line of Market Street to a point
100 feet south of the center line of Western Avenue; thence be a line parallel
to and 100 feet south of the center line of Western Avenue and said line
extended to a point in the boundary line between the City of Boston and the
Town of Watertown south of Watertown Bridge, so-called; thence by said boundary
line and the boundary line between the City of Boston and the Cities of
Cambridge and Somerville to the point of beginning. Also those portions of the
Hyde Park district upon or within 100 feet of the following-named streets and
squares: Everett Square, so-called; Fairmount Avenue from River Street to
Neponset River; River Street from the location of the Boston and Providence
Railroad to Winthrop Street; Hyde Park Avenue on the easterly side from the
northerly side of Oak Street to Everett Street; Hyde Park Avenue on the
westerly side from the northerly side of Pine Street extension, so-called, to a
point on said Hyde Park Avenue opposite the southerly line of Everett Street;
Harvard Avenue from River Street to Winthrop Street; Maple Street from River
Street to a point 180 feet southerly therefrom; Central Avenue from River
Street to Winthrop Street; Davison Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point 300
feet northeasterly therefrom; Grove Street; Pierce Street from Fairmount Avenue
to a point 300 feet northeasterly therefrom; Knott Street from Fairmount Avenue
to a point 300 feet easterly therefrom; Railroad Avenue from Fairmount Avenue
to a point 300 feet northeasterly therefrom; Station Street from the Neponset
River to a point 300 feet northeasterly from Fairmount Avenue; Walnut Street
from Fairmount Avenue to a point 300 feet southwesterly therefrom; Maple Street
from Fairmount Avenue to a point 125 feet westerly therefrom.
(Rev. Ord. 1898 c. 45 § 27; Ord. 1912 c. 5; Ord. 1913 c. 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 §
53; CBC 1985 9-3.4)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1938 c. 479 § 202 (Boston Building Code); Ord. § 7-4.9
9-4   BOARD OF APPEAL.
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-4.1   Board Members.
   (A)   There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Board
of Appeal, consisting of five members appointed by the Mayor as follows: one
member from two candidates nominated, one by The Boston Society of Architects
and one by the Boston Society of Civil Engineers, one member from two
candidates nominated by the Building Trades Council of Boston and Vicinity, one
member from two candidates nominated, one by the Greater Boston Real Estate
Board and one by the commonwealth’s Real Estate Association, one member from
three candidates nominated, one by The Master Builders’ Association of Boston,
one by the Building Trades Employers’ Association of the city and one by the
Associated General Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc. and one member selected
at large by the Mayor. All members of the Board of Appeal shall be residents
of, or engaged in business in, Boston. As the term of any member in Office
expires, his or her successor shall be appointed in like manner as such member
for a term of five years. Vacancies in the Board shall be filled in the same
manner for the unexpired term. No member of the Board shall act in any case in
which he or she has a personal interest; and when a member is so disqualified
or absent or when there is a vacancy in the Office of a member, the remaining
members shall designate a substitute.
   (B)   The Board of Appeal shall not be subject to the supervision or control
of the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the
Board of Appeal shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make any annual or
other report, except through the Building Commissioner.
(St. 1938 c. 479; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 21; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord.
T9 § 150; CBC 1985 9-4.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3
9-4.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Board of Appeal shall exercise the powers and perform the duties set
forth in the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, and Section 19 of
Chapter 488 of the Acts of 1924.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 151; CBC 1985 9-4.2)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1924 c. 488 § 19; St. 1938 c. 479 §§ 117, 118, 119
9-5   ZONING COMMISSION.
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-5.1   Board, Powers and Duties.
   There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Zoning
Commission; provided for by Section 1 of Chapter 665 of the Acts of 1956, as
amended. Said Board shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided
by statute. Said Board shall not be subject to the supervision or control of
the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the
Zoning Commission shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an annual or
other report, except through the Building Commissioner.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 200; CBC 1985 9-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1956 c. 655 § 1; Ord. § 9-3
9-5.2   Designating Zoning Commissioners as Special Municipal Employees.
   The Zoning Commissioners shall be deemed to be Special Municipal Employees
for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(CBC 1985 9-5.2 Ord. 1988 c. 3 § 1 S201)
9-6   BEACON HILL ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T9 c. 9; CBC 1985 9-6)
9-7   BACK BAY ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T 9 c. 11; CBC 1985 9-6)
9-8   BOARD OF EXAMINERS.
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
9-8.1   Appointment, Term, Compensation.
   (A)   There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Board
of Examiners, consisting of three members appointed by the Mayor, of whom one
shall be an architect or engineer with at least five years’ experience in the
city, one a contractor or person well qualified in the supervision of
construction work with at least five years’ experience in the city and one a
lawyer or other person with proper legal qualifications. As the term of any
member expires, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term
of three years. Vacancies in the Board shall filled by the Mayor for the
unexpired term.
   (B)   The Board of Examiners shall not be subject to the supervision or
control of the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the
Mayor, the Board of Examiners shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an
annual or other report, except through the Building Commissioner.
(St. 1912 c. 713; Ord. 1912 c. 9; St. 1938 c. 479 § 120; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 22;
Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 350; CBC 1985 9-8.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3
9-8.2   Powers and Duties.
   Said Board shall exercise the powers, perform the duties and issue licenses
as set forth in Section 120 of the Boston Building Code.
(Ord. 1956 c. 7 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 351; CBC 1985
9-8.2)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1938 c. 479
9-9   INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   Ch. 6 of the Ordinances of 1985 repealed this Section. A decision of the
Mass. Appeals Court, 24 Mass. App. Ct. 663 (1987), however held said ordinance
invalid.
9-9.1   Establishment.
   There shall be in the City, a Department known as the Inspectional Services
Department, which shall be under the charge of an Officer known as the
Commissioner, appointed by the Mayor, who shall have the powers and perform the
duties imposed upon him or her by law, and who shall be compensated as an
Officer within Category II of Subsection 5-5.10. The Inspectional Services
Department shall have and exercise all of the duties imposed upon it by law
including, but not limited to, the duties formerly held and exercised by the
Building Commissioner, the Housing Inspection Commissioner and any other
Commissioner or Department whose duties were transferred to the Inspectional
Services Department by prior amendments of this code. The Commissioner shall
prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of the Department,
including the assignment of functions to the various Offices and employees.
(Ord. 1981 c. 19; CBC 1985 9-9.1; Ord. 1994 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 2; Ord.
2018 c. 6 § 7)
9-9.2—9-9.3   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Former Subsections 9-9.2, Commissioner and 9-9.3, Joint Appointment,
previously codified herein and containing portions of Ordinance Nos. 1981 c. 19
and 1994 c. 1, were repealed in their entirety by Ordinance No. 1995 c. 8.
9-9.4   Empowered to Accept Delegation.
   The Board of Health and Hospitals may delegate to the Inspectional Services
Department the enforcement of any statute, ordinance or regulation heretofore
enforced by, or adopted by, said Board. Any other Board, Officer, Department or
Commission may, subject to the approval of the City Council, delegate to the
Inspectional Services Department the enforcement of any statute, ordinance or
regulation heretofore enforced by or duly adopted by such Board, Officer,
Department or Commission. The Inspectional Services Department is hereby
empowered to accept such delegation and may exercise any and all powers
necessary or convenient in furtherance of any such delegation. Notice of such
delegation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1981 c. 19; CBC 1985 9-9.4)
9-9.5   Board of Appeal and Board of Examiners.
   The Board of Appeal and Board of Examiners are hereby transferred to the
Inspectional Services Department but neither shall be under the supervision or
control of said Department.
(Ord. 1981 c. 19; CBC 1985 9-9.5)
9-9.6   Administrative Units.
   The Commissioner may, from time to time, establish within the Department
such administrative units within Divisions as may be necessary for the
efficient and economical administration of the Department, and when necessary
for such purpose, he or she may abolish or merge any such administrative units
within Divisions as he or she may deem advisable. Subject to the approval of
the Mayor and City Council, the Commissioner may establish, abolish or merge
Divisions. The Commissioner shall prepare and keep current a statement of the
organization of the Department; of the assignment of functions to its various
administrative units, Offices and employees; and of the place at which and the
methods whereby the public may receive information or make requests.
(Ord. 1981 c. 19; CBC 1985 9-9.6)
9-9.7   The Building and Housing Inspection Departments.
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department of the city
are hereby respectively abolished. All powers, duties and appropriations of
said Departments are hereby transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
created by Subsection 9-9.1; and every person holding in said or other
Departments an Office or position subject to the Civil Service Law and Rules,
being M.G.L. Chapter 31, shall be transferred without Civil Service examination
or registration to a similar Office or position in the Inspectional Services
Department without impairment of his or her Civil Service rights or his or her
retirement, seniority, vacation or sick leave rights; and his or her services
shall be deemed to have been continuous to the same extent as if such abolition
had not taken place.
(Ord. 1981 c. 19; CBC 1985 9-9.7)
9-9.8   Site Cleanliness Licenses.
   No person shall operate or maintain an automotive establishment, a food and
beverage establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, a donation
collection bin or a bulk refuse container without first obtaining the site
cleanliness license required by this Subsection or unless the same is
maintained in accordance with said license and any regulation promulgated
hereunder.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOTIVE ESTABLISHMENTS. Autobody shop, car wash, garage, gasoline
station, motor vehicle repair garage or lot, retail business establishment or
other place for the sale, service, repair or installation of new or used motor
vehicles, new or used motor vehicle parts, new or used tires or new or used
motor vehicle accessories, whether or not vehicles are serviced or parts or
accessories are installed or used on or off the premises.
      BULK REFUSE CONTAINER STORAGE LOT. Lot for the storage, repair or
maintenance of empty or loaded dumpsters, roll-off containers, trash compactors
or any other container or receptacle where debris, refuse, solid waste, trash,
recyclable material or like material, are contained or stored in any quantity
for any period of time.
      BULK REFUSE CONTAINERS. Dumpsters, trash compactors or any other
container or receptacle where recyclable materials, debris, refuse, trash,
solid waste or like material are contained or stored in any quantity for any
period of time.
      DONATION COLLECTION BIN. Any container or receptacle, at or on the
exterior property areas of any premises, held out to the public as a place for
people to drop off articles of clothing and/or other household items.
      FOOD, BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS. Restaurant, lunchroom, cafeteria, drive in
restaurant, take out restaurant, night club, bar or tavern or other retail
business establishment open to the public for the sale or service of food, food
products or beverages, whether the food, food products or beverages are
prepared for consumption on premises; or where food, food products and
beverages are sold or served in disposable containers; or where the
establishment provides disposable tableware, napkins, containers, condiments or
other disposable material to the public as a usual business practice.
      LOT. A parcel of land including land under water, whether or not platted,
in single ownership and not divided by a street.
      SITE CLEANLINESS LICENSE. The license required by this Subsection and
issued by the Inspectional Services Department upon satisfactory review of the
site cleanliness license application and Site Cleanliness Plan.
      SITE CLEANLINESS PLAN. An operational and maintenance plan for each
automotive establishment, food/beverage establishment, bulk refuse container
storage lot or any bulk refuse storage container governed by this Subsection.
The plan shall also include all information included in the Site Cleanliness
Plan application as discussed in division (D) below.
   (B)   Applicability. The Site Cleanliness Ordinance shall apply to all
existing and future automotive establishments, food and beverage
establishments, bulk refuse container storage lots, donation collection bins
and bulk refuse containers located within the city.
   (C)   License required for site cleanliness of establishments, donation
collection bins and bulk refuse containers. No automotive establishment, food/
beverage establishment or bulk container storage lot shall operate, and no bulk
refuse container or donation collection bin shall be used, without first
obtaining a site cleanliness license from the Commissioner of Inspectional
Services. If the Commissioner of Inspectional Services determines that a
submitted site cleanliness license application is accurate and adequate to keep
the site free from debris, refuse, trash, solid waste or like material that is
injurious to the public health, safety and environment, the Commissioner shall
issue a site cleanliness license for the establishment, bulk refuse container
storage lot or bulk refuse container. Performance of the activities scheduled
in the Site Cleanliness Plan shall be a condition of the license and
nonperformance of the activities scheduled in the Site Cleanliness Plan shall
be a violation of the license and conditions of this Subsection. An operator of
donation collection bins shall only need one license for any donation
collection bins he or she operates. Operators of donation collection bins shall
not be required to submit a Site Cleanliness Plan as a condition of the
license, but said operators must meet the additional requirements outlined in
division (D) below and meeting these requirements shall be a condition of the
license and nonperformance of the activities specifically pertaining to
donation collection bins shall be a violation of the license.
   (D)   Contents of license application. 
      (1)   A complete site cleanliness license application consists of a
completed application form and a Site Cleanliness Plan attached thereto. The
site cleanliness application form shall be in a form approved by the
Commissioner. A Site Cleanliness Plan shall, at a minimum, include the
following information:
         (a)   The address of the lot on which the establishment is located;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the lot;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the operator of the
establishment located on the lot;
         (d)   The type of establishment and nature of its business;
         (e)   A plot plan accurately depicting the lot;
         (f)   The location of any bulk refuse container and the location of
the bulk refuse container in relation to all abutting lots;
         (g)   A weekly schedule detailing the times and days of the week for
cleaning and maintaining the site free of windblown litter and refuse;
         (h)   The name of a supervisor responsible for overseeing the cleaning
and maintenance of the site;
         (i)   The name and address of the waste hauling company responsible
for servicing the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot or bulk
refuse container;
         (j)   The date, time and frequency of service by the waste hauling
company;
         (k)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Department of
Environmental Protection relating to the management, storage and disposal of
solid wastes and hazardous materials and hazardous wastes generated, stored or
disposed on site;
         (l)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Fire
Department;
         (m)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Inspectional
Services Department;
         (n)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Works
Department;
         (o)   The name, address and phone number of the pest control company
servicing the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot or bulk refuse
container;
         (p)   Any fencing or screening required; and
         (q)   Any other information required by the Inspectional Services
Department to ensure the site is maintained in a sanitary condition free of
debris, refuse, trash, solid waste or like material that is injurious to the
public health, safety and environment.
      (2)   Operators of donation collection bins shall not be required to
submit a completed Site Cleanliness Plan as outlined above, but shall be
required to provide the information required by Subsections 1, 3, 7, 8 and 17,
inclusive, as it pertains to all donation collection bins in operation. The
name, address and telephone number of the person or persons responsible for
maintaining each donation collection bin must also be posted and plainly
visible on each operator’s donation collection bins. In addition to the
requirements outlined in division (G) below, operators of donation collection
bins must also provide the Inspectional Services Department with the regular
interval schedule for all bins in operation at which the operator collects the
items donated and performs regular maintenance. Said interval shall not be
greater than 30 days. Any operator of a donation collection box must provide
the Inspectional Services Department with written authorization from all owners
of all lots upon which they operate a donation collection bin stating that the
operator has the owner’s permission to operate a donation collection box on
said lot. If, after receiving an annual site cleanliness license, the operator
of a donation collection bin plans on placing a new donation collection bin
anywhere in the city, the operator must first apply for an updated site
cleanliness license and provide all required information pertaining to the new
bin.
   (E)   Screening/fencing requirements. All bulk refuse containers maintained
by establishments governed by this Section shall be screened or fenced off from
view from public ways, sidewalks and adjoining properties at all sites other
than construction sites, unless said screening would eliminate disposal access
to the bulk refuse container.
   (F)   Posting requirements. The Site Cleanliness Plan and site cleanliness
license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in public view.
This requirement shall not apply to premises containing a donation collection
bin, but the license shall be posted directly on said bin.
   (G)   Inspections.
      (1)   Authority. In order to properly carry out their respective
responsibilities under this Section, and to ensure that the public health,
safety and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and
unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized to
enter, examine or survey at any reasonable time all establishments, donation
collection bins and bulk refuse containers licensed hereunder.
      (2)   Systematic area inspections. The Inspectional Services Department
is authorized to develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic area-wide
inspections of establishments, bulk refuse container storage lots, donation
collection bins and bulk refuse containers required to obtain a site
cleanliness license.
      (3)   Interference with inspection. If any owner, occupant or other
person refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs
entry and free access to the site, operation or premises where inspection is
authorized by this Subsection, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in
a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the
inspection of the site and apprises the owner, occupant or other person
concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection and
justification for it and may seek the assistance of the Police authorities in
presenting said warrant.
   (H)   Violation. The operation or maintenance of any establishment, donation
collection bin or bulk refuse container governed by this Subsection without a
site cleanliness license; the failure to operate or maintain the same in
accordance with a validly issued site cleanliness license; and the interference
with an inspection, including inspections conducted a pursuant to a validly
issued inspection warrant.
   (I)   Service of notice of violation. Notice of violation shall be served on
all owners, operators and all other persons responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot or bulk
refuse container. Notice of violation shall be served on the operator of the
donation collection bin. The notice of violation shall be served in the
following manner:
      (1)   Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process;
      (2)   By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a copy
of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the
violator;
      (3)   By sending a copy of the order by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, if within the commonwealth; or
      (4)   If the last and usual place of abode of the violator is unknown or
outside the commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a
conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least
three out of five consecutive days in one or more newspapers of general
circulation within the city.
   (J)   Administrative hearings.
      (1)   Right to hearing. Any person upon whom a notice of violation has
been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by
filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter with the
Department within seven days after the day the notice of violation was served.
      (2)   Hearing notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional
Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time and place of
the hearing in writing.
      (3)   Time for hearing. The hearing shall commence within 30 days after
the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in which
the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the
petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.
      (4)   Hearing of petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence
and to show why the notice of violation should be modified or withdrawn. An
official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to
the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period
specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.
      (5)   Final decision after hearing; failure to comply with final order.
         (a)   Within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice
of violation and shall inform the petitioner in writing of its decision and the
reasons therefore. If the Department sustains or modifies the notice of
violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted in
the original notice of violation or in the modification.
         (b)   If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the
Inspectional Services Department within seven days after the notice of
violation has been served, or if after a hearing the notice of violation has
been sustained in any part, each day’s failure to comply with the notice of
violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an
additional offense.
   (K)   Judicial appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the
Inspectional Services Department with respect to the denial of a site
cleanliness license, the revocation of a site cleanliness license, the issuance
of a notice of violation or any other order issued under this Subsection by the
Inspectional Services Department, may seek relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the commonwealth.
   (L)   Penalties.
      (1)   Failure to obtain site cleanliness license. If a person operates an
establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or
bulk refuse container without first obtaining a site cleanliness license, the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services may seek an injunction from a court of
competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment, bulk
refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container
until a site cleanliness license is secured.
      (2)   Failure to comply with terms of site cleanliness license. If a
licensee fails to comply with the terms of a site cleanliness license, the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend the site cleanliness license,
after an administrative hearing, and seek an injunction from a court of
competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment, bulk
refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container
until the licensee proves to the court its compliance with the site cleanliness
license. If a licensee fails to comply with the terms of the site cleanliness
license three times in the preceding 12-month period, the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services may suspend, cancel or revoke the site cleanliness
license after an administrative hearing. In the event of suspension or
cancellation of the site cleanliness license, other municipal Agencies issuing
licenses will be so notified.
      (3)   Failure to comply with notice of violation. Any person who fails to
comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this
Subsection by the Inspectional Services Department, or its duly appointed
Agents or representatives, shall be fined $1,000 per violation per day. Each
day’s failure to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall
constitute a separate violation. Notwithstanding, any person who operates a
donation collection bin and fails to comply with any notice of violation or
other order issued pursuant to this Subsection by the Inspectional Services
Department, or its duly appointed Agents or representatives, shall be fined
$100.
      (4)   Interference after inspection warrant presented. Any owner,
occupant or other person who refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with,
restricts or obstructs entry and free access to every part of the structure,
site, operation or premises where inspection is sought under this Subsection
after an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in accordance with
division (G)(3) above, shall be fined $1,000.
      (5)   Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this
Subsection may be enforced pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D.
   (M)   Site cleanliness license fee. The fee for the site cleanliness license
shall be $50. In the case of operators of donation collection bins updating
their site cleanliness license during the valid annual license period, the fee
shall be $10.
   (N)   Term of license. The term of each license shall be one year. Annually
on a date set by the Commissioner, all persons who operate or maintain food/
beverage establishments, automotive establishments, bulk refuse container
storage lots, donation collection bins and bulk refuse containers shall file,
renew or amend a Site Cleanliness Plan and obtain a new site cleanliness
license. Operators of donation collection bins shall not be required to submit
a Site Cleanliness Plan.
   (O)   Severability. If any Section provided for under this Subsection shall
be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, that decision shall not affect
any other portion of this Subsection, which shall remain in full force and
effect; and to this end the provisions of this Subsection are hereby declared
severable.
   (P)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall
have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to enforce
this Subsection.
   (Q)   Delegation of authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may
delegate enforcement of this Subsection to any City Department authorized to
enforce public safety, health or environmental laws and regulations.
(CBC 1985 9-9.8; Ord. 1999 c. 5; Ord. 2008 c. 15; Ord. 2010 c. 3)
9-9.9   Auto Shops Licenses.
   No person shall operate or maintain an automotive establishment without
first obtaining the auto shops license required by this Section or unless the
same is maintained in accordance with said license and any regulation
promulgated hereunder.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOTIVE ESTABLISHMENTS. Auto body shop, car wash, garage, gasoline
station, motor vehicle repair garage or lot, retail business establishment or
other place for the sale, service, repair or installation of new or used motor
vehicles, new or used motor vehicle parts, new or used tires or new or used
motor vehicle accessories, whether or not the vehicles are serviced or parts or
accessories are installed or used on or off the premises.
      CEASE AND DESIST ORDER. A serious enforcement action, which requires the
wrongful party to halt production, service or a particular practice at its
facility.
      CLASS I, II AND III LIQUIDS. The commonwealth’s Board of Building
Regulations and Standards has classified flammable and combustible liquids as
Class IA, IB, IC, II and III based on the temperature at which the liquids give
off enough vapors to cause a fire hazard. The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (“OSHA”) has developed specific regulations regarding the
storage of these liquids.
      COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID. Any liquids having a flash point at or above 100°F
shall be known as Class II or Class III liquid. Combustible liquids shall be
divided into the following classifications:
         (a)   CLASS II. Liquids having flash points at or above 100°F and
below 140°F;
         (b)   CLASS IIIA. Liquids having a flash point at or above 140°F and
below 200°F; and
         (c)   CLASS IIIB. Liquids having a flash point at or above 200°F.
      CONTINGENCY PLAN. A document setting out an organized, planned and
coordinated course of action to be followed in case of fire, explosion or other
accident that releases toxic chemicals, hazardous waste or radioactive
materials that threaten human health or the environment.
      CUTTING AND WELDING. An auto body repair activity that can create noxious
fumes and potentially release metal fines and sparks to the environment.
      ENGINEERING CONTROLS. Mechanical controls and equipment that are designed
to protect worker health and safety (such as ventilation, alarms and filters).
      ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY (“EHS”) PROGRAM. A program developed by
a workplace or business to protect the environment and worker safety. An EHS
PROGRAM incorporates and implements procedures that help ensure chemicals and
activities are managed in a safe and environmentally sound manner.
      ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY. The legal liability that a company or a person
incurs if it owns or operates a shop that violates an environmental law or
causes damage to the surrounding environment as a result of the company’s or
person’s operations.
      FLAMMABLE LIQUID. A liquid that has a flash point below 100°F and has
vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (PSI) at 100°F.
      HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANT (“HAP”). Air pollutants that are not covered by
ambient air quality standards but which reasonably may be expected to cause or
contribute to irreversible illness or death, according to the Clean Air Act
amendments, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq. Such POLLUTANTS include: benzene,
chromium compounds, hexane, methyl isocyanates, styrene, toluene and vinyl
chloride.
      HAZARD ASSESSMENT. The review and evaluation of a shop’s operations for
potential health injuries or disease that may be caused by a chemical, process
or facility design and the conditions of exposure under which such health
effects are produced. This ASSESSMENT is used to identify appropriate
precautions that workers should take when performing certain shop activities.
      HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM. An OSHA-required program developed by a
firm or workplace which identifies potential hazards associated with workplace
activities and outlines procedures that will be undertaken by all employees to
prevent injury and in the event of a chemical exposure or accident.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated by a business or residence that can pose
a substantial or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly managed. These are defined as wastes that possess at least one of
the four characteristics (ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity or toxicity) or
wastes that are determined to be hazardous by definition and are listed as such
by EPA or states.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATOR. Any facility that generates waste. GENERATORS
are regulated based on how much waste they generate.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANIFEST. A multi-part form that is used to track each
hazardous waste shipment from its point of generation to its ultimate disposal
or treatment. The use of these forms is required under EPA or DEP hazardous
waste requirements. These forms list the generator identification number, the
name of the waste generator, all waste transporters, the name of the designated
receiving facility and the quality and type of hazardous waste being shipped.
      IMMINENT THREAT OR HAZARD. An activity or condition that poses an
immediate danger to human health or the environment.
      LOT. A parcel of land including land under water, whether or not platted,
in single ownership, and not divided by a street.
      MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS (“MSDS”). Printed documents generated by
chemical manufacturers that describe the contents of a material, its hazards,
appropriate protection measures and other health and safety and emergency
information.
      OIL-WATER SEPARATOR. Also called a grease trap or gas trap. Used to
separate industrial wastewater before it is discharged to a floor drain,
sanitary sewer, industrial septic system or the ground. The SEPARATOR
physically removes the oil and particles from the wastewater because floating
oil and particles will separate from the water in the unit. The sludge and oil
must be collected and managed as a hazardous waste or oil waste.
      OPERATION HOURS. The daily time period during which the licensed
automotive establishment conducts and provides services to the public.
      PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT (“PPE”). Any health and safety equipment
used to protect workers from potentially harmful materials or activities.
PPE includes goggles, gloves, respirators, steel-toed boots, earplugs and more.
      POLLUTION PREVENTION (“P2”). The implementation of activities or
practices that avoid the use and generation of environmentally harmful
materials. Common P2 activities include reducing toxics use, using non-toxic
alternatives, improving efficiency and therefore reducing waste, recycling or
reusing materials and modifying operations to avoid the need for materials that
are, or may become, environmentally harmful.
      REACTIVE WASTE. Waste that is capable of reacting with other chemicals,
is normally unstable and can undergo violent changes with or without exploding.
A REACTIVE WASTE may respond violently with water and may generate toxic gas,
vapor or fumes when mixed with water.
      REPORTABLE QUANTITY (“RQ”). The amount of oil or hazardous material
released to the environment that would require you to notify the proper
authorities.
      SATELLITE ACCUMULATION AREA. Area where hazardous waste is accumulated in
a container until the container becomes full and is moved to a hazardous waste
storage/accumulation area. Waste in this AREA must be at, or near, the point of
generation and under the control of the process operator at all times.
      SPRAY AREA. Any area where dangerous quantities of flammable or
combustible vapors, mists, residues, dusts or deposits are present due to the
operation of spray painting or coating processes. According to NFPA Code 33,
the SPRAY AREA includes areas inside the spray booth or spray room, as well as
ducts exhausting from spray-painting process. When spray areas are not confined
adequately, the SPRAY AREA may extend out to the entire room.
      SPRAY BOOTH. A structure which encloses a spraying operation to limit the
escape of spray, vapor and residue, and which conducts these materials to an
exhaust system. A SPRAY BOOTH is fully enclosed, ventilated and equipped with
fire prevention and safety equipment. Generally a SPRAY BOOTH has three walls
and one open side.
      TOXIC WASTE. A waste that can produce injury if inhaled, swallowed or
absorbed through the skin.
      VIOLATION. The operation or maintenance of any establishment governed by
this Section without an auto shops license; the failure to operate or maintain
the same in accordance with a validly issued auto shops license; and the
interference with an inspection conducted pursuant to a validly issued
inspection warrant.
      VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (“VOCS”). Any organic compound that can alter
the chemical makeup of the atmosphere through photochemical reactions. These
COMPOUNDS are called volatile because they can become a vapor at room
temperature and pressure. Most paints and solvents used in auto body shops
contain VOCS.
   (B)   Applicability; zoning review. The auto shops license shall apply to
all existing and future automotive establishments located within the city.
After an auto shops license application has been submitted to the Inspectional
Services Department, a complete plan review shall be conducted to ensure the
establishment is in compliance with the Zoning Code. If proper zoning is not
met, the application must be submitted to the Boston Zoning Board of Appeal for
a variance.
   (C)   License required for auto shops establishments. No automotive
establishment shall operate without first obtaining an auto shops license from
the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. If the Commissioner of Inspectional
Services determines that a submitted auto shops license application is accurate
and adequate to keep the site free of hazardous waste or like material that is
injurious to the public health, safety and environment, the Commissioner shall
issue an auto shops license for the establishment. Performance of the
activities scheduled in the auto shops plan shall be a condition of the license
and nonperformance of the activities scheduled in the auto shops plan shall be
a violation of the license and conditions of this Section. All auto shops shall
operate using best industry practices during the allowed hours of operation
indicated in their licenses.
   (D)   Contents of license application. A complete auto shops license
application consists of a completed application form and an auto shops plan
attached thereto. The auto shops application form shall be in a form approved
by the Commissioner. An auto shops plan shall, at a minimum, include the
following information:
      (1)   The address where the establishment is located;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
establishment;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the operator of the
establishment;
      (4)   A weekly schedule detailing the time and days of the week of the
operation hours for the automotive establishment;
      (5)   A weekly schedule detailing the times and days of the week for
cleaning and maintaining the establishment free of waste and hazardous
material;
      (6)   The name of a supervisor responsible for overseeing the cleaning
and maintenance of the shop;
      (7)   The name and address of the waste hauling company responsible for
servicing the establishment;
      (8)   The date, time and frequency of service by the waste hauling
company;
      (9)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Department of
Environmental Protection relating to the management, storage and disposal of
solid wastes and hazardous materials and hazardous wastes generated, stored or
disposed on site;
      (10)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Safety
Committee;
      (11)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Police
Department;
      (12)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Inspectional
Services Department;
      (13)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Works
Department;
      (14)   Any other information required by the Inspectional Services
Department to ensure the site is maintained in a sanitary condition free of
solid waste, hazardous materials or like material that is injurious to the
public health, safety and environment; and
      (15)   Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Public
Health Commission.
   (E)   Posting requirements. The auto shops plan and auto shops license shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in public view.
   (F)   Inspections.
      (1)   Authority. In order to properly carry out their respective
responsibilities under this Section, and to ensure that the public health,
safety and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and
unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized to
enter, examine or survey at any reasonable time all establishments licensed
hereunder.
      (2)   Systematic area inspections. The Inspectional Services Department
is authorized to develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic area-wide
inspections of establishments required to obtain an auto shops license.
      (3)   Interference with inspector. If any owner, occupant or person
refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and
free access to the site, operation or premise where inspection is authorized by
this Section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of
competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of
the site and surprises the owner, occupant or other person concerning the
nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection and the justification for
it and may seek the assistance of the Police authorities in presenting said
warrant.
   (G)   Violation. The operation or maintenance of any establishment governed
by this Section without an auto shops license; the failure to operate or
maintain the same in accordance with a validly issued autoshops license and
auto shops plan; and the interference with an inspection conducted pursuant to
a validly issued inspection warrant.
      (1)   Regulation. No fine shall be issued under the auto shops license
but shall be issued under the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Sections 122, 123 and 125.
      (2)   Time frame. After an auto shops establishment has been cited, by
the Commissioner of Inspectional Services or his or her designee, for failure
to comply with a validly issued auto shops license the owner, occupant or
person responsible for the operation or maintenance of the establishment shall
have seven days in which to comply, or, in an emergency, as determined by the
inspector from Inspectional Services, 24 hours.
      (3)   Fine schedule. Citations for failure to comply with this Section
will be issued by ISD through a code enforcement ticket. A clearly defined and
progressive fine schedule would result in the following:
 
First offense                 $100
Second offense                $250
Third and subsequent offenses $500
 
   (H)   Service of notice of violation. Notice of violation shall be served on
all owners, operators and on all other persons responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the establishment. The notice of violation shall be served
in the following manner:
      (1)   Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process;
      (2)   By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a copy
of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the
violator;
      (3)   By sending a copy of the order by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, if within the commonwealth; or
      (4)   If the last and usual place of abode of the violator is unknown or
is outside the commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a
conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least
three out of five consecutive days in one or more newspapers of general
circulation within the city.
   (I)   Administrative hearings.
      (1)   Right to hearing. Any person upon whom a notice of violation has
been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by
filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter within the
Department within seven days after the day the notice of violation was served.
      (2)   Hearing notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional
Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time and place of
the hearing in writing.
      (3)   Time for hearing. The hearing shall commence within 30 days after
the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in which
the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the
petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.
      (4)   Hearing of petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard, to present witness or documentary evidence
and to show why the notice of violation should be modified or withdrawn. An
official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to
the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period
specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.
      (5)   Final decision after hearing; failure to comply with final order.
         (a)   Within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice
of violation and shall inform the petitioner, in writing, of its decision and
the reasons therefor. If the Department sustains or modifies the notice of
violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted as
issued or in the modification.
         (b)   If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the
Inspectional Services Department within seven days after the notice of
violation has been served, or if, after a hearing, the notice of violation has
been sustained in any part, each day’s failure to comply with the notice of
violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an
additional offense.
   (J)   Judicial appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the
Inspectional Services Department with respect to the denial of an auto shops
license, the revocation of an auto shops license, the issuance of a notice of
violation, or any other order issued under this Section by the Inspectional
Services Department, may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the commonwealth.
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Failure to obtain an auto shops license. If a person operates an
automotive establishment without first obtaining an auto shops license, the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services may seek an injunction from a court of
competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment until an
auto shops license is secured.
      (2)   Failure to comply with terms of the auto shops license. If a
licensee fails to comply with the terms of an auto shops license, the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend the auto shops license, after
an administrative hearing, and seek an injunction from a court of competent
jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment until the licensee
proves to the court its compliance with the auto shops license. If a licensee
fails to comply with the terms of the auto shops license three times in the
proceeding year, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend, cancel
or revoke the auto shops license after an administrative hearing. In the event
of suspension or cancellation of the auto shops license other municipal
Agencies issuing licenses will be so notified.
      (3)   Failure to comply with notice of violation. Any person who fails to
comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this
Section by the Inspectional Services Department, or its duly appointed Agents
or representatives, shall be fined $1,000 per violation per day. Each day’s
failure to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall
constitute a separate violation.
      (4)   Interference after inspection warrant presented. Any owner,
occupant or other person who refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with,
restricts or obstructs entry and free access to every part of the structure,
site operation or premises where inspection is sought under this Section after
an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in accordance with
division (F)(3) above, shall be fined $1,000.
      (5)   Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this
Section may be enforced pursuant to M.G. L. Chapter 40, Section 21D and will
remain the property of ISD.
   (L)   Auto shops license fee. The fee for the auto shops license shall be
$100. It is renewable on an annual basis and requires a compliance inspection
for the license to be issued.
   (M)   Term of license. The term of each license shall be one year. Annually
on the date set by the Commissioner, all persons who operate or maintain
automotive establishments shall file, renew or amend an auto shops plan and
obtain a new auto shops license.
   (N)   Severability. If any Subsection provided for under this Section shall
be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, that decision shall not affect
any other portion of this Section, which shall remain in full force and effect;
and to this end the provisions of this Section are hereby declared severable.
   (O)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall
have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to enforce
this Section.
   (P)   Delegation of authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may
delegate enforcement of this Section to any City Department authorized to
enforce public safety, health or environmental laws and regulations.
(CBC 1985 9-9.9; Ord. 2006 c. 9)
9-9.10   Inspection of Pool Roofs and Ceilings.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTED SWIMMING POOL. Any swimming pool which has been built,
erected or fabricated primarily with manufactured building materials including,
but not limited to: cement, concrete, steel, tile, fiberglass or any
combination thereto; and which possesses a water filtration, treatment,
circulation or drainage system.
      ENCLOSED SWIMMING POOL. Any constructed swimming pool which has above it
any type of roof, ceiling or other covering.
      PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. Any constructed swimming pool which is used, or
which is built for use, in connection with a family residence consisting of not
more than three individual residential units and available only to the family
of the householder and his or her private guests.
      PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. Any constructed swimming pool which
is not a private swimming pool.
   (B)   Special permit required for use or operation of public or semi-public
enclosed swimming pool.
      (1)   No person or entity shall open, operate or allow the use of a
public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool unless he or she possesses a
current and valid special permit from the Commissioner of the city Inspectional
Services Department (“Commissioner”).
      (2)   The Commissioner shall issue such special permit only after he or
she has received satisfactory proof of inspection by a registered engineering
firm which attests to the structural soundness of the roof, ceiling or other
covering over the pool. The Commissioner shall have the authority to evaluate
the sufficiency of any such proof and to refuse to issue a special permit if,
in his or her sole discretion, he or she determines such proof to be
insufficient or such attestation to be inaccurate.
      (3)   The Commissioner shall also have the authority to inspect the roof,
ceiling or other covering of a public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool
before issuing or renewing a special permit. The special permit required under
this Section is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other permits or
licenses which may be required by the Inspectional Services Department or other
public authorities with respect to swimming pools.
   (C)   Term of permit.
      (1)   A special permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance
and may be renewed on the same terms and in the same manners as the original
issuance.
      (2)   Any person or entity who continues to operate or allow the use of a
public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool in violation of this Subsection
shall be assessed a fine pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 in the
amount of $25 for each day of non-compliance. The Commissioner is authorized to
impose such a fine and to pursue any other available legal or equitable
remedies for violation of this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 9-9.10; Ord. 1989 c. 11 § 1)
9-9.11   Window Falls Prevention Program in the Department of Health and
Hospitals.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD. A person age six years or under.
      BOARD. The Board of Health and Hospitals.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Health and Hospitals.
      INSTALLATION. The proper equipping of windows with window safety guards
in accordance with regulations issued by the Board of Health and Hospitals.
      OWNER. A person, who alone or severally has legal titles, or has charge
or control in any capacity including, but not limited to, agent, executor,
administrator, trustee or guardian; or any officer or trustee of a real estate
trust or association of unit owners.
      TENANT. A lessee, or other regular occupant of a dwelling unit with or
without a lease.
      WINDOW SAFETY GUARD. A device designed to restrict passage or access
through a window of a child age six or under.
   (B)   Established. There shall be a Window Falls Prevention Program
established within the Department of Health and Hospitals. The purpose of said
program shall be as follows: educating the public about the danger to children,
age six years and under, of falling from windows; and encouraging the voluntary
installation by owners of window safety guards on windows in dwellings occupied
by children age six years and under.
   (C)   Information and Assistance to Public. The Program shall conduct city-
wide education and outreach efforts promoting awareness about the dangers to
children, age six years and under of falling from open or otherwise unprotected
windows. Information and technical assistance shall be made available to the
public on the steps and devices that may mitigate this serious problem. The
Program shall work with any and all existing Agencies and Departments involved
with children in its outreach efforts. The Window Falls Prevention Program will
also encourage owners to voluntarily install window safety guards on windows in
the dwellings occupied by children age six years and under.
(CBC 1985 9-9.11; Ord. 1994 c. 19 §§ 1-3)
9-9.12   Inspection of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances of Buildings Requiring
Periodic Inspection.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Department pursuant to
780 CMR 111.
      COMMISSIONER. A Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or a
designee.
      DEPARTMENT. The City Inspectional Services Department.
      EXTERIOR WALL AFFIDAVIT. An affidavit submitted by a building owner along
with an exterior wall inspection report, on a form provided by the Department.
      EXTERIOR WALL CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Commissioner
certifying that an exterior wall inspection report and affidavit has been
submitted to the Department by a building owner showing proof of inspection and
that the building is in a safe condition.
      EXTERIOR WALL INSPECTION REPORT. A written report by a registered
professional certifying the results of the examination clearly documenting the
condition of the exterior walls and appurtenances thereto. The REPORT shall
include a record of all significant deterioration, unsafe conditions and
movement observed as well as a statement regarding the water tightness of the
exterior surfaces, as described in division (E) below. Such report must be
signed by, or bear the professional seal of, the registered architect or
engineer.
      EXTERIOR WALLS AND APPURTENANCES.
         (a)   Any exterior wall of a building over 70 feet in height, or
classified as a high rise structure; or
         (b)   Any exterior wall of an unoccupied building, of over 35,000
cubic feet and excluding residential buildings that are classified as three-
family, two-family or single-family except as required by the Commissioner.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL. A commonwealth-licensed professional engineer
experienced in the practice of structural engineering or a licensed registered
architect knowledgeable in the design, construction and inspection of building
facades.
      SAFE. A condition of a building wall or any appurtenance thereto that is
neither an unsafe condition nor safe with a repair and maintenance program.
      SAFE WITH A REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM. A condition of a building’s
exterior wall or any appurtenance thereto or any part thereof that the
registered professional does not consider unsafe at the time of inspection, but
requires repairs or maintenance within a time period designated by the
professional in order to prevent its deterioration into an unsafe condition.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Alterations or repairs to be made to a structure
and its facade within any period of 12 months, if such alterations or repairs
cost more than 50% of the physical value of the structure or structures.
Physical value shall be based on the assessed value, as recorded on the
assessment rolls of the city as of the January 1 preceding the date of the
filing of an application for a building permit with the Inspectional Services
Department.
      UNSAFE CONDITION. A condition of a building’s exterior wall or any
appurtenance thereto or part thereof that is dangerous to persons or property
and requires prompt remedial action.
   (B)   Periodic inspections, reports required.
      (1)   Every exterior wall defined above shall be inspected in the case of
an occupied structure at least once every five years and in the case of an
unoccupied structure at least once a year. Provided, however, that any building
that has been substantially improved within the preceding five years, shall not
be required to be inspected for the purpose of complying with this Subsection,
for ten years following the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy by the
Department.
      (2)   The inspection shall be made and a report thereon prepared by a
registered professional and shall be filed with the Commissioner together with
a fee in the amount of $200 within 30 days of the inspection.
      (3)   The Commissioner shall issue an exterior wall certificate only
after having received satisfactory proof of inspection and the inspection
report of the registered professional that said exterior wall is deemed to be
in a safe condition. No structure referenced in said Section shall be occupied
without such certificate. Prior to issuing a certificate, the Commissioner may
in the Commissioner’s discretion require inspection by the Department at a
charge of $200 which must be paid prior to issuance of the certificate.
      (4)   Upon the filing of an inspection report indicating the existence of
an unsafe condition, the Commissioner shall affix the appropriate violation on
the structure and the owners, or agent, shall immediately commence repairs to
remedy the violation and obtain all necessary permits for such repair work.
   (C)   Compliance and interaction with other laws. The exterior wall
certificate required under this Section is in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any other permits or licenses which may be required by the Inspectional
Services Department or other public authority concerning occupation or
operation of the building or structure.
   (D)   Inspection procedures.
      (1)   Before proceeding with inspection of a building falling under the
requirements of this Section, the registered professional shall review previous
reports, inspections and evidence of repairs made in the past five-year period,
including confirmation that all areas previously determined to require
remediation in less than five years (as noted in any previous report) have been
addressed.
      (2)   The inspection shall be conducted by or under the supervision of
the registered professional, and performed to the best of his or her knowledge
and belief. The registered professional shall determine the extent of the
inspection required, based upon the known history of the building, the nature
of the materials used and the conditions observed. The registered professional
shall determine methods employed in the inspection, but need not be physically
present at the location where the inspection is made.
      (3)   The methods used to inspect a building shall permit a physical,
hands-on inspection of the building. The registered professional may use other
methods of inspection as deemed appropriate, including the use of digital
imaging, video and drone technology appropriate to complete a comprehensive
inspection, except that a physical inspection from a scaffold or other
observation platform is required for a representative sample of the exterior
wall. The registered professional shall determine what constitutes a
representative sample.
      (4).   The registered professional shall employ the appropriate
professional standard of care to detect distressed and questionable structural
conditions such as delaminating, separating, splitting or fracturing of
material or components as well as movement or displacement indicative of
unsound facade materials or loss of structural support. If a distressed
condition is identified, the registered professional shall order any other
inspections and/or tests that may be required to determine the significance and
probable cause of the observed distress.
      (5)   During the course of the inspection, photographs shall be taken
and/or sketches made to properly document the location of all conditions
observed that are either unsafe or safe with a repair and maintenance program.
      (6)   Upon discovery of any unsafe condition the registered professional
shall immediately notify the owner of the building by electronic mail; and
shall, within 12 hours of discovery, notify the Commissioner in writing and in
an electronic format determined by the Commissioner.
   (E)   Report requirements. 
      (1)   The report shall include, on the front page, the name and license
number of the registered professional and shall be signed, sealed and dated by
the registered professional in accordance with the professional registration
laws of the commonwealth, and shall include:
         (a)   The address and the location from the nearest intersection;
         (b)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and email address of
the owner of the building and of the owner’s Agent or person in charge,
possession or control of the building, if any;
         (c)   A description of the building, including number of stories,
height, plan dimensions, usage, age and type of exterior wall construction and
system of water management;
         (d)   A brief history of any settlements, repairs, revisions to
exterior enclosures, if available;
         (e)   The date of the start and completion of the inspection, a
detailed description of the procedures used in making the inspection and the
extent and location of all physical inspections performed;
         (f)   A report of all conditions including, but not limited to,
significant deterioration and movement observed as well as a statement
concerning the apparent water-tightness of the exterior surfaces, and the
deleterious effect of exterior appurtenances, including exterior fixtures,
flagpoles, signs, parapets, copings, guard rails, window frames (including
hardware and lights), window guards, window air conditioners, flower boxes and
similar items. The report shall classify each such condition as safe, unsafe or
safe with a repair and maintenance program;
         (g)   The probable causes of the reported conditions;
         (h)   The status of the exterior maintenance;
         (i)   For any conditions listed in the previously filed report (if
any), whether such conditions have been repaired and/or maintained as
recommended in that report;
         (j)   Recommendations for repairs or maintenance, if appropriate,
including the recommended time frame for the repairs or maintenance to be
performed;
         (k)   The classification of the building according to the following
scheme:
            1.   “Unsafe”, if there is at least one unsafe condition;
            2.   “Safe with a repair and maintenance program”, if there is a
condition that is “safe with repair and maintenance program” and there are no
unsafe conditions; and
            3.   “Safe”, in all cases other than in divisions (E)(1)(k)1. or
(E)(1)(k)2. above.
         (l)   Photographs and/or sketches documenting the locations of any
conditions that are either unsafe or safe with a repair and maintenance
program;
         (m)   A statement by the registered professional indicating which
repairs and/or maintenance require the obtaining of work permits prior to their
commencement;
         (n)   A statement signed by the owner or Agent of the building,
acknowledging receipt of a copy of the report and acknowledging all required
repairs and/or maintenance (if any) and the recommended time frame for
performing such repairs and/or maintenance;
         (o)   The registered professional’s certification that the physical
inspection was performed in accordance with applicable rules and regulations
and within the appropriate professional standard of care;
         (p)   The registered professional’s seal and signature; and
         (q)   Such other matters as the Commissioner may by regulation
require.
      (2)   The registered professional may submit an amended report within 30
days of the initial submission. The amended report shall clearly indicate any
change from the initial report and all reasons for such changes.
   (F)   Unsafe conditions.
      (1)   Within 24 hours of being notified of an unsafe condition by a
registered professional, the owner of a building shall take any actions
necessary to protect public safety, such as erecting sidewalk sheds, fences
and/or safety netting. Such actions shall be considered as an effort to remedy
an emergency situation and appropriate permit applications shall be submitted
within the next three days to the Commissioner.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt or filing of a report identifying an
unsafe condition, the owner of a building shall commence work to correct the
condition and work shall continue without interruption until the unsafe
condition has been corrected, unless there has been an unforeseen delay (e.g.,
weather, labor strike). Work to correct an unsafe condition shall take priority
over any other permitted work at the building. Within two weeks after the
unsafe condition has been corrected, the registered professional shall
reinspect the building and file with the Commissioner a detailed amended report
stating the condition of the building.
   (G)   Conditions that are safe with a repair and maintenance program. The
owner of the building is responsible for ensuring that the conditions described
in the report as “safe with a repair and maintenance program” are repaired and
the actions identified by the registered professional are completed within the
time frame designated by the registered professional or by such time necessary
to prevent a condition from becoming an unsafe condition, whichever is sooner.
   (H)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person or entity being the assessed owner (which shall include
any trustee of a trust) or being the person in control of a structure requiring
an exterior wall certificate who shall fail to have the structure inspected or
fail to file the inspection report with the required fee or who shall suffer
occupancy of such a structure without a valid certificate shall be punished by
a fine of $300. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Any unsafe condition that results from failure to follow a
maintenance plan recommended by the registered professional shall constitute a
violation of this Section and shall be punishable by a fine of $300. Each day
that such violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   The provisions of this Section may be enforced in accordance with
the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, and, if
applicable, by seeking to restrain a violation by injunction.
      (4)   The provisions of this Section may also be enforced according to
M.G.L. Chapter 40U as accepted by the city, also known as the “Green Ticket”
Law.
(Ord. 1995 c. 8; Ord. 2022 c. 4 § 1)
9-9.13   Regulating Access to Roof Areas of Buildings with Residential Units.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the intent of this Subsection to protect and preserve public
safety, security and quiet enjoyment of occupants, abutters and neighborhoods
by:
         (a)   Discouraging the inappropriate use of flat roof areas of
residential buildings; and
         (b)   Regulating the use of and/or assembly of persons on flat roof
areas and/or roof decks.
      (2)   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Building Department
has enforcement authority pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 3; the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR; and the Zoning Code of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Boston.
      DOOR ALARM. A device which causes an alarm to sound whenever the door or
hatchway to which it is attached is opened; provided that said device does not
substantially impede the opening and closing of the door or hatchway. Any such
device which can be temporarily deactivated through the use of a key, code or
other such measure, shall be considered to be within this definition,
notwithstanding the fact that it can be so deactivated; provided that the
device is designed to automatically reactivate itself within a reasonable time
after the deactivation event takes place. Signage on or near the device will
warn users of the presence of the ALARM.
      INCLUDED STRUCTURE. Any residential structure with a roof deck as defined
below; not including owner occupied one or two family structures.
      OWNER. Any person(s) or entity that owns a building in the city, The
rights and duties of the OWNER hereunder shall also be the rights and duties of
any person(s) or entity that manages or controls the building.
      ROOF ACCESS POINT. Any doorway, passageway or staircase through which
access to any part of the roof of the building is provided that said door,
passageway or staircase connects to a portion of the interior of the building
to which one or more occupants has unimpeded access.
      ROOF DECK. A structure built on the roof of a building that is used for
gardening, sunbathing and other passive recreational purposes. Flat roofs, or
limited areas thereof, which do not have a structure built for such purposes
but are accessible through a roof access point and could nevertheless be used
for such purposes shall be included in this definition.
   (C)   Roof deck permits. 
      (1)   Roof deck permits shall be obtained by an owner by submitting a
building permit application to the Inspectional Services Department. The
application shall contain any and all required plans, including, but not
limited to, a land survey, framing plans and a report of a structural and
safety evaluation performed and prepared by an architect or structural engineer
registered/certified in the commonwealth; the structural and safety evaluation
shall consider and evaluate the structural capacity of the roof and the safety
features of the roof/roof deck including, but not limited to, handrails,
guardrails, lighting and manner(s) of egress as may be required by the
commonwealth’s Building Code or by the regulations of the Inspectional Services
Department.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no roof deck permit shall be
required where:
         (a)   The roof deck is a flat roof, or limited area thereof, which
does not have a structure built for such purpose; and
         (b)   The owner has either secured the roof access point(s) with a
locking device(s) to the extent permitted by law or has installed a door alarm.
      (3)   No roof deck may be issued a permit unless all legal requirements
are met, such as zoning approval and landmark approval, as necessary; the
applicant shall attach to the application copies of such approvals, if any.
      (4)   No person may occupy, stand on, sit on or use a roof deck that has
not been issued a permit by the Inspectional Services Department (except for
performing maintenance). No person may encourage, allow or suffer an assembly
of persons on a roof deck that has not been issued a permit by the Inspectional
Services Department. Upon discovery of use or occupancy of a roof deck that
does not have proof of a valid permit issued by the Inspectional Services
Department, an Officer of the Boston Police Department or an inspector of the
Inspectional Services Department shall order the roof deck vacated until the
process outlined in this division (C).
      (5)   The Inspectional Services Department shall have the discretion to
establish the procedure by which compliance is determined, including, but not
limited to, determining when, how and by which professionals such inspections
are to be made, including the certified documentation that is to be required
for compliance; provided that their policies are reasonably calculated to
ensure that every included structure in the city is inspected for compliance at
least once every five years.
   (D)   Roof deck complaints. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services
Department, or his or her designee, shall follow up on any credible complaint,
to be defined by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department, that
a structure is being used as a roof deck in violation of this Section. Within
three business days of receipt of a complaint under this Section, the
Inspectional Services Department shall determine whether or not a permit has
been issued for use as a roof deck. Upon investigation, if:
      (1)   (a)   No roof deck permit has been issued and the building is not
otherwise in compliance as described in division (C) above, then a Building
Inspector shall, by means of a building code violation order the owner to come
into compliance by either applying for or securing a permit for a roof deck or
otherwise complying into compliance by installing a locking device to the
extent permitted by law or door alarm as described in division (C) above.
         (b)   If the owner does not come into compliance within 30 days after
the violation is issued, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department
may file a complaint in Housing Court. Violations are written to the owner in
the form of a building and/or zoning code violation and shall be subject to the
penalties and fines of such building code and/or zoning code in addition to any
penalties and fines authorized by this Section.
      (2)   A valid roof deck permit has been issued and/or the roof deck is in
compliance with this Section (as described in division (C) above) and other
existing laws, then the matter may be turned over to the Boston Police
Department for further investigation of the complaint; and
      (3)   No roof deck permit has been issued and the building is not
otherwise in compliance as described in division (C) above, and a second or
subsequent credible complaint is received that a structure is being used as a
roof deck in violation of this Section, then the owner will be ordered to come
into compliance as described in division (D)(1) above and simultaneously issued
a violation as described in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties. Each and every violation of this Section or
any regulations adopted hereunder is punishable by a fine of $300 for the first
offense and $500 for each subsequent offense. A violation of this Section shall
not be deemed to create any presumption of negligence by an owner.
   (F)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce this Section.
   (G)   Severability. If any provision of this Section shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
   (H)   Implementation. The provisions of this Section shall be effective 90
days after passage.
(CBC 1985 9-9.13; Ord. 2007 c.12)
9-9.14   Regulation of Student Housing.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEDROOM. A room occupied for sleeping purposes in a dwelling unit and
contains at least 70 square feet of floor space; a room occupied for sleeping
purposes in a dwelling unit for more than one occupant shall contain at least
50 square feet of floor space for each occupant.
      STUDENT HOUSING. Any privately owned, non-owner occupied unit, building,
structure, development or complex of one or more dwelling units in which the
total number of full-time undergraduate students residing in the property
exceeds the maximum occupancy of the total number of bedrooms in the properly
as documented by the data provided to the City Clerk pursuant to the
requirements of Sections 10-3 and 10-4 and analyzed by the city.
      UNIT. Shall be synonymous as dwelling unit, rental unit or condominium
unit.
   (B)   Registration and application for student housing Certificates of
Occupancy.
      (1)   Any property or unit owner of student housing as defined in this
Section shall register and apply for a Certificate of Occupancy with the
Inspectional Services Department and obtain an annual Certificate of Occupancy
to operate student housing before September 1 of each calendar year of
operation. The permit fee shall be $15 for each student housing unit. The
permit fees shall be capped at a maximum of $2,500 per building and $5,000 per
complex.
      (2)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services, or a designee, shall
have the discretion to deny a Certificate of Occupancy for Student Housing
based upon but not limited to, the following factors:
         (a)   The property is subject to Subsection 9-1.3, commonly known as
the rental registry ordinance, and is not registered;
         (b)   One or more units in the property has outstanding sanitary,
zoning, building or environmental code violations;
         (c)   The properly or unit owner has any outstanding property taxes,
city fees or fines; and
         (d)   The property or unit owner holds any financial interest in a
property designated as a Problem Property pursuant to Subsection 9-13.1.
      (3)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services, or designee, may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy at his or her discretion.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person or entity found in violation of this Section
shall be fined $300 per month beginning in the first month in which the unit is
found to be in violation and continuing for each subsequent month thereafter
until the unit is brought into compliance. Compliance shall constitute
obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy for Student Housing.
   (D)   Right of appeal. The provisions of this Subsection may be enforced in
accordance with the non-criminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D; provided that this Section shall not preclude the city from
proceeding to restrain a violation by injunction. The provisions of this
Section may also be enforced in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 40U.
   (E)   Pilot Program. This Section shall be effective upon passage in order
to establish a Pilot Program relating to student housing. The provisions of
this subsection shall expire on September 30, 2016.
(CBC 1985 9-9.14; Ord. 2016 c. 4 § 1)
9-9.15   Retail Residential Kitchens.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION. A person who produces cottage food products only
in the home kitchen of that person’s primary domestic residence.
      COTTAGE FOODS. Non-time/temperature control for safety baked goods, jams,
jellies and other non-time/temperature control for safety foods produced in
cottage food operations. Retail residential kitchens may not prepare finished
products that require hot or cold holding for safety, including meat or fish
that is raw or heat-treated, certain cut produce including melons, leafy greens
and tomatoes.
      RETAIL RESIDENTIAL KITCHENS. Any cottage food operation that sells
directly to the consumer, with respect to Zoning Code Article 2A which states
that merchandise cannot be sold from the home in person.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   A retail residential kitchen permit shall be required for any
resident who wishes to prepare cottage foods and other foods deemed to be
admissible by Inspectional Services Department (“ISD”), such as juices or teas.
Residents must apply for the permit through ISD.
      (2)   The annual fee for a Retail Residential Kitchen permit shall be
$100.
      (3)   Applicants shall obtain all necessary permits and regulatory
approvals that may be required to safely operate a retail residential kitchen.
   (C)   Training and information.
      (1)   ISD will ensure that residential kitchen permittees and anyone
working in the kitchen is certified through a nationally accredited food safety
certification exam organization recognized in the commonwealth and meets
Massachusetts Food Allergens Awareness Training certification requirements.
      (2)   ISD shall ensure all retail residential kitchen permittees receive
training and any other necessary safety information regarding labor laws, fire
safety and other related information as necessary.
      (3)   The permittee shall sign and return all required certificates,
trainings and informational packets as required by ISD.
   (D)   Health Code Standards for permitted residential kitchens. All retail
residential kitchen operations shall comply with commonwealth’s Sanitary Code
105 CMR 590. A physical copy of these guidelines shall be given to every
permittee.
   (E)   Compliance and enforcement.
      (1)   Inspection. Retail residential kitchens shall receive annual
inspections through the Health Division of the Inspectional Services Department
(“ISD”), and shall comply fully with their rules and regulations. Retail
residential kitchen may also be subject to random compliance inspections.
      (2)   Requirement to include permit number on advertisements. The permit
number issued by the Department shall be included on all advertisements
promoting the Cottage Food Operation.
      (3)   Signage. No exterior signage shall be allowed unless such signage
is permitted under the city’s Zoning Code or Section 16-33.
      (4)   Penalties. Any person found to be operating a Retail Residential
Kitchen in violation of this Section or in violation of the terms of his or her
permit may be subject to a fine of up to $300 per day. The Commissioner of
Inspectional Services, or his or her designee, may issue a written warning, a
notice of violation, a fine and/or suspension or revocation of permits.
      (5)   Enforcement. The provisions of this Section may be enforced in
accordance with the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D, and M.G.L. Chapter 40U as accepted by the city.
      (6)   Notification. ISD shall, in coordination with the Office of
Neighborhood Services or other related Department, give notice to the landlord,
or other appropriate entity, that a retail residential kitchen exists at the
permittee’s location.
   (F)   Regulations.
      (1)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall promulgate rules
and regulations necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of this
Section.
   (G)   Reporting. ISD shall prepare an annual report detailing the number of
applicants, recipients of retail residential kitchen permits and other relevant
information and submit it to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall docket the
report and include the docket on the agenda of the next-occurring meeting of
the Boston City Council. This Section shall sunset on December 31, 2024.
(CBC 1985 9-9.15; Ord. 2021 c. 4, § 1)
9-10   ARSON PREVENTION COMMISSION.
9-10.1   Composition of Commission.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Commission, known as the Arson Prevention
Commission, consisting of the following officials of the city: the Fire
Commissioner, the Police Commissioner, the Commissioner of Inspectional
Services, the Collector/Treasurer, Commissioner of Real Property and the Chair
of the City Council’s Committee dealing with the issue of arson, all serving ex
officio. There shall be nine Commissioners appointed by the Mayor. Eight
Commissioners appointed by the Mayor shall be residents of the city who live in
areas affected by arson and have knowledge or expertise in the problem of
arson. Of the nine Commissioners appointed by the Mayor, one Commissioner shall
be a representative of the insurance industry that specifically deals with fire
insurance for low/moderate income housing and knowledgeable about the problem
of arson within the city, who need not be a resident of the city. Ex officio
Commissioners, or their designees, and Mayoral appointed Commissioners shall
have the power to attend any meetings or hearing and to vote on any Commission
matter.
   (B)   Mayoral appointed Commissioners shall serve a term of two years.
   (C)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as Chair and another as
Vice-Chair to serve in these capacities for the term of one year. The
Commissioners shall hire a Director, who shall not be a member of the
Commission, and said Director shall be qualified by his or her knowledge of the
activities and methods used in arson prevention programs. The Director shall
have the title of Executive Director and shall be paid a salary established by
the Mayor. The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, and shall be
deemed special municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(Ord. 1983 c. 13; Ord. 1984 cs. 6, 9; CBC 1985 9-10.1; Ord. 1987 c. 7 § 1; Ord.
1988 c. 10 §§ 1, 2; T9 [450])
9-10.2   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet on a regular basis; shall study the problem
of arson in the city; shall work with neighborhood organizations to implement
remedies arrived at by studying the problem of arson in the city; shall, from
time to time, and at least twice a year on July 1 and January 1, make written
reports to the Mayor and Boston City Council assessing incidents of arson on a
neighborhood basis and recommend means to prevent arson; shall conduct
independently or in conjunction with appropriate Agencies such programs
relating to the prevention of arson in the city as the Commission deems
necessary; and shall propose new programs as the Commission deems feasible in
view of the particular program and the needs of the city in regard to arson
prevention.
   (B)   The Director shall be the Executive Officer of the Commission and
shall have such powers to perform such duties as the Commission shall, from
time to time, determine. The Director shall appoint, with Commission approval,
other such personnel as the Commission may, from time to time, deem expedient.
The Director and Commissioners, for the purposes of obtaining information under
Chapter 446 of the Acts of 1978, shall be considered Public Safety Officials.
The Director is empowered, on behalf of the Commission, to seek and make
application for any and all commonwealth and/or federal funds that are or
become available for a municipality to fund arson prevention activities. The
Commission shall monitor compliance with Chapter 446 of the Acts of 1978 and
any other applicable commonwealth statute which affect arson prevention in the
city, shall advise and suggest administrative and legislative remedies to deal
with the prevention of arson and shall establish a community based arson
prevention program.
(Ord. 1983 c.13; Ord. 1984 c. 6; CBC 1985 9-10.2)
9-10.3   Other City Agencies.
   The services of all City Departments, Agencies and other Commissions shall
be made available to the Commission for the purposes of effectuating the
provisions of this Section. The Head of any Department, Agency or other
Commission shall furnish information in the possession of such Department,
Agency or other Commission when the Commission so requests and where such
information relates to the duties of the Commission.
(Ord. 1983 c. 13; CBC 1985 9-10.3)
9-10.4   Rules and Regulations.
   The Commission shall promulgate such rules and regulations consistent with
the provisions of this Section and the laws of the commonwealth as shall
further the provisions of this Section. The Commission shall adopt rules of
procedure for conducting hearings.
(Ord. 1983 c. 13; Ord. 1984 c. 6; CBC 1985 9-10.4)
9-10.5   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision shall be
held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from
the remaining provisions of this Section, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 1983 c. 13; CBC 1985 9-10.5)
9-11   SECURITY IN ELDERLY/HANDICAPPED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
9-11.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING ENTRANCE. An entrance providing access from outside the building or
from an entry vestibule to an interior corridor, lobby or stairway which leads
to an individual dwelling unit.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit granted by the Inspectional Services Department
for the construction of any building or for any substantial alteration or
addition thereto, as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 1.
   DWELLING UNIT. The part of a building that is used as a home, residence or
sleeping place by one or more persons who maintain a household.
   ELDERLY PERSON. Any person who is at least 62 years of age.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who is physically handicapped as defined in
M.G.L. Chapter 22, Section 13A or mentally handicapped as defined by 29 U.S.C.
§ 705(20).
   ELDERLY/HANDICAPPED MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. Any building,
structure, development or complex of ten or more dwelling units under common
ownership, rented or offered for rent for dwelling purposes within the city,
which is specifically designed or designated for rental by elderly or
handicapped persons.
   LANDLORD. The individual who holds title to any elderly/handicapped multi-
family housing development including, without limitation, a partnership,
corporation or trust. For purposes of this Section, the rights and duties of
the LANDLORD hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls
or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the LANDLORD.
   SAFETY OFFICER. A Police Officer of the city, or a special Police Officer
appointed pursuant to applicable law to protect persons or property in public
or subsidized housing, or a person employed as a guard or investigator by a
duly licensed watch, guard or patrol agency, as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 147,
Section 22.
   SECURITY PLAN. A plan for providing security for the tenants of an elderly/
handicapped multi-family housing development, based upon a crime prevention
survey, which meets the criteria set forth in Subsection 9-11.3 and which has
been developed according to the process set forth in Subsection 9-11.4.
   TENANT. A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or other person, entitled
under the terms of a rental housing agreement to the use and occupancy of any
dwelling unit in an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development.
(CBC 1985 9-11.1; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [500])
9-11.2   Security Requirements for Elderly/Handicapped Multi-Family Housing
Developments.
   (A)   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall
promulgate regulations, pursuant to his or her authority under M.G.L. Chapter
111, Section 127A, and consistent with the requirements of the commonwealth’s
Sanitary Code and this Section. These regulations shall take effect within 90
days of the effective date of this Section, and shall require that every
landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development, within 30
days of receipt of notice from the Commissioner, either elect to:
      (1)   Provide Safety Officers for such development on a 24 hour per day,
seven day per week basis. The Safety Officers’ duties shall include, without
limitation, the monitoring of all building entrances in such elderly/
handicapped development; or
      (2)   Provide security measures as identified in a security plan which
has been developed and approved in compliance with the provisions of
Subsections 9-11.3 and 9-11.4.
   (B)   Thereafter, once a landlord has elected to either provide Safety
Officers as provided above or to provide a security plan, the landlord shall
have the continuing duty to provide such Officers or to provide the security
measures identified in the security plan. A landlord may choose, after
initially electing one of the above alternatives, to switch to the other with
approval of the Inspectional Services Department, but must continue to provide
Safety Officers or the security measures mandated by the security plan pending
such approval. The landlord’s submission seeking approval for a switch in
alternatives must be carried out in accordance with Subsections 9-11.3 and 9-
11.4. Failure to continue to provide Safety Officers or the security measures
mandated by a security plan shall constitute a violation of this Section and
shall be subject to enforcement under Subsection 9-11.6.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall, within 90 days of the effective date of this
Section, identify all elderly/handicapped developments within its scope. In
identifying these developments, the Commissioner shall consult with the
Commissioner for the Elderly. Thereafter, the Commissioner shall notify all
landlords of elderly/handicapped developments of the operation of this Section,
and of their duty to elect to either provide Safety Officers on a 24-hour
basis, or to request a crime prevention survey. Such notices shall be sent out
on a phased basis so that, within a 12-month period, all elderly/handicapped
developments within the city shall have received such notices. Copies of this
Section and the Commissioner’s regulations shall be provided at no cost
whenever an applicant seeks a building permit for an elderly/handicapped
housing development covered by this Section.
   (D)   If, within 30 days after receipt of a notice under this Subsection or
a notice of non-compliance under Subsection 9-1.6 for failure to provide
Security Officers or have an approved security plan, a landlord has requested a
crime prevention survey by the Boston Police Department, triggering the first
stage in the provision of a security plan, the landlord shall be relieved of
the responsibility of providing Safety Officers as required above unless and
until a security plan has been approved.
(CBC 1985 9-11.2; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [501])
Editor’s note:
   This Section was adopted by Ordinances of 1989, Chapter 4, on February 8,
1989, and approved by the Mayor on February 27, 1989.
9-11.3   Criteria for a Security Plan.
   (A)   A security plan shall be based upon a crime prevention survey which
has been completed by the Boston Police Department, and shall incorporate all
of the elements recommended by the crime prevention survey for the adequate
protection of the tenants of the elderly/handicapped development, except as
otherwise provided in Subsection 9-11.4. Each crime prevention survey shall
include both findings as to the security needs of the tenants of the
development and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through
existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, Safety Officers,
security stations, security systems or other equipment, personnel or programs.
Each survey shall also include a one-page summary, on official Boston Police
Department stationery, itemizing the elements recommended.
   (B)   A new crime prevention survey must be performed every three years. If
a building permit is required by the Inspectional Services Department for
substantial structural changes in the building entrances to an elderly/
handicapped development before the expiration of the three-year period since a
survey was last performed, a new crime prevention survey must be performed upon
submission of the building permit application.
   (C)   The landlord shall be responsible for arranging for a crime prevention
survey by the Boston Police Department, and shall notify the Commissioner of
the Inspectional Services Department in writing at the same time that he or she
requests such survey from the Boston Police Department. No fee shall be
assessed to the landlord for such survey. The Boston Police Department shall
carry out such crime prevention survey and provide a copy of the same to the
landlord and the Inspectional Services Department upon completion, as provided
for in Subsection 11-1.7 as amended. Such surveys shall be carried out on a
phased basis parallel to that of the notices sent under Subsection 9-11.2 by
the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. Such surveys shall be completed
within 30 days of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention
survey.
(CBC 1985 9-11.3; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [502])
9-11.4   Process for Approval of a Security Plan.
   (A)   Approval of security plan incorporating security measures recommended
by crime prevention survey.
      (1)   (a)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the crime prevention survey,
the landlord shall prepare a security plan for approval by the Commissioner of
the Inspectional Services Department. Such plan shall be deemed to be in full
compliance with this Section provided that:
            1.   The security plan mandates, at the very least, the provision
of the security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey; and
            2.   The tenants have not articulated security needs which are not
adequately addressed by the survey or the plan.
         (b)   If the crime prevention survey indicates that no security
measures are needed additional to those already in effect at the development,
the security plan shall be deemed to be sufficient so long as the landlord, in
such plan, agrees to keep in effect all existing security measures. In all
cases, the tenants must be given the opportunity to present their views to the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the
plan is accepted.
      (2)   Following the posting of notice to tenants as provided in division
(C) below, the landlord shall submit the plan to the Commissioner of the
Inspectional Services Department for approval. The Commissioner shall notify
all affected parties of the date of the hearing on the plan. Such hearing shall
take place within 30 days of the Commissioner’s receipt of the plan, and notice
of the hearing date shall be given to all parties at least ten days in advance
of the hearing date. Notice of the hearing date shall be given to any tenants
organization which exists in the development and shall be posted by the
landlord at the development in a conspicuous location. At the hearing, the
landlord and the tenants shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present
witnesses or to submit documentary evidence, as to why the security plan should
be approved or modified.
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall approve or modify the
security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the crime prevention
survey and the security needs articulated by tenants. In reviewing the adequacy
of the plan and reaching a decision thereon, the Commissioner shall consult
with the Boston Police Department, as provided for in Subsection 11-1.7 as
amended. The Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a
written decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten
days of the hearing date.
   (B)   Petition for a modified security plan; approval process.
      (1)   Within 30 days of receipt of the crime prevention survey, if the
landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family development disputes the need
for any of the specific security measures recommended by the crime prevention
survey, or the method or the timetable for carrying out security measures,
based on the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the particular
development, or if the landlord and/or tenants of an elderly/handicapped multi-
family development believes that the additional security measures mandated by
the crime prevention survey are such as to be cost-prohibitive, given the
economic circumstances of the tenants of the development and the inability of
the landlord and/or the tenants to obtain sufficient funding, equipment or
services to cover the costs of such additional measures despite best efforts,
as provided for in Subsection 9-11.5, then the landlord and/or tenants can
petition the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department for
permission to submit a modified security plan which does not encompass all of
the security measures mandated by the crime prevention survey. Such petition
shall be accompanied by a proposed security plan. A landlord may only claim
that the elements mandated by the crime prevention survey are cost-prohibitive
if the increased costs must be passed along to the tenants of the development
and absorbed by the tenants in the tenants’ share of the rent. In all cases
under this Subsection, the tenants must be given the opportunity to present
their views to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a
hearing before the petition and plan is accepted.
      (2)   Following the posting of notice as provided in division (C) below,
the landlord shall submit the petition for a modified security plan to the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department for approval. The
Commissioner shall notify all affected parties of the date of the hearing on
the petition. Such hearing shall take place within 30 days of the
Commissioner’s receipt of the petition, and notice of the hearing date shall be
given to all parties at least ten days in advance of the hearing date. Notice
of the hearing date shall be given to any tenants organization which exists in
the development and shall be posted by the landlord at the development in a
conspicuous location. At the hearing, the landlord and the tenants shall be
given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or to submit documentary
evidence, as to why the petition should be approved or modified.
      (3)   If a landlord submits a petition for a modified security plan, the
landlord shall have the burden to show how any of the specific security
measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary, or, given
the fiscal or contracting constraints particular to the development, how
changes are needed in the method or timetable for implementation of security
measures. In the event that a party claims that the costs of the additional
security measures are cost-prohibitive, the landlord shall state what the
estimated costs of the security measures are. In such cases, the landlord shall
also substantiate his or her current and projected operating expenses and
revenues, and shall show what efforts he or she has made to otherwise cover the
costs, as provided in Subsection 9-11.5.
      (4)   Following the hearing, if the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department finds that:
         (a)   Any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime
prevention survey are unnecessary to meet security needs at the particular
development;
         (b)   Within the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the
particular development, the landlord’s proposed plan will provide a reasonable
method or timetable for meeting security needs; or
         (c)   The costs required to undertake the improvements mandated by the
crime prevention survey as such as to make a security plan cost-prohibitive,
the Commissioner shall either approve the petition for a modified security plan
or make such modifications to the plan as are necessary.
      (5)   In ruling on a petition where it is claimed that a security plan is
cost-prohibitive, the Commissioner shall be guided by the principle, consistent
with the security objectives articulated in the crime prevention survey, that
the impact on tenants’ rents should be minimized so that the cost of additional
security measures will not have the likely effect of displacing elderly/
handicapped tenants due to the excessive rent increases. In such cases, the
Commissioner shall consider reasonable alternatives to the security measures
called for by the crime prevention survey.
      (6)   In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision
thereon, the Commissioner shall consult with the Boston Police Department, as
provided for in Subsection 11-1.7 as amended. Such approval or modification
shall be in the form of a written decision, and shall be furnished to all
affected parties within ten days of the hearing date.
   (C)   Tenant participation requirements in conjunction with submission of
security plans.
      (1)   The landlord shall post a notice that he or she intends to submit a
security plan or a petition for a modified security plan to the Inspectional
Services Department in a conspicuous location within the development. This
notice shall be in a form established by the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department. Such notice shall inform the tenants of the development
that they may review and obtain copies of the landlord’s security plan upon
request, as well as the materials in support of the plan, and shall also notify
them of their right to participate in hearings at the Inspectional Services
Department concerning such plan. Such notice shall first be posted at least ten
days prior to the submission of the security plan or petition to the
Inspectional Services Department under divisions (A) or (B) above. Such notice
shall remain posted until such time as the Inspectional Services Department has
made its final determination. It shall be deemed a violation of this Section,
enforceable under Subsection 9-11.6, for any landlord to fail to post such a
notice in a conspicuous location or to intentionally or willfully cause such
notice to be defaced, destroyed or removed. If such a notice is defaced,
destroyed or removed by a third party, it shall be the landlord’s obligation to
immediately post a copy of the original notice.
      (2)   If any tenant requests a copy of the proposed plan, it shall be
provided by the landlord to the tenant, together with:
         (a)   A copy of the findings and recommendations of the crime
prevention survey (or the official Boston Police Department summary); and
         (b)   If applicable, a summary of the landlord’s reasons for disputing
the findings and recommendations of the crime prevention survey, for seeking
alterations in the method or timetable for implementation of security measures
or for claiming that the additional security measures mandated by the crime
prevention survey are cost-prohibitive, including a summary of the financial
alternatives that he or she has explored to cover costs.
      (3)   Such notice shall be required, and such documents shall be
available upon request, even if the survey and the plan do not recommend
additional security measures.
      (4)   In developments that are subject to tenant participation
requirements under 760 CMR 6.00, 24 C.F.R. § 245 or other applicable law and
where there is a tenants organization, the landlord shall provide a copy of the
security plan or petition and the above documents to such tenants organization
at least ten days in advance of the submission of the plan or petition to the
Inspectional Services Department. If the tenants participating in the
organization vote that there are deficiencies in the security plan or petition,
the landlord shall be required to meet with the tenants organization, at the
tenants organization’s request, to discuss the tenants’ concerns and attempt in
good faith to resolve such concerns. The tenants organization shall give
written notice to the landlord, within the ten-day period after receipt of the
plan and survey, of its desire to have such a meeting. The landlord shall meet
with the tenants organization within two weeks of receipt of the tenant
organization’s notice. To the extent that such meetings or discussions delay
the finalization of the security plan, the landlord shall be permitted to
submit the security plan late, but in no event later than 30 days from the date
of the tenant meeting. The landlord shall give notice to the Commissioner of
the Inspectional Services Department of any requests received for tenant
meetings. The Commissioner shall not schedule any hearing on the security plan
until after such tenant meetings have taken place, and the 30-day period for
the Commissioner to hold a hearing after receipt of a plan shall be extended in
such event. Failure of the tenants or the tenants organization to request a
meeting with their landlord to discuss the plan shall not be deemed to
constitute a waiver of the tenants’ right to approve, oppose or seek
modifications in a plan or petition at the hearing before the Commissioner.
(CBC 1985 9-11.4; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [503]; Ord. 2010 c. 12)
9-11.5   Protection from Rent Increases.
   Additional costs incurred by landlords in complying with the requirements of
this Section and implementing security measures additional to those already
provided or required in such developments shall not be passed on to elderly or
handicapped tenants of elderly/handicapped multi-family housing developments
unless the landlord has exhausted all reasonable alternatives to the passing on
of such costs. In pursuing such alternatives, the landlord of an elderly/
handicapped multi-family housing development shall use best efforts to seek and
obtain such funding, grants or donations of funds, equipment or services, as
may lessen or eliminate such additional costs. Such reasonable alternatives
shall also include the seeking of relief from cost-prohibitive security
measures as provided for under Subsection 9-11.4(B). The costs incurred in
complying with the requirements of this Section and implementing security
measures additional to those already provided or required may be considered to
be reasonable or necessary operating or capital expenses in any application for
additional subsidy or financing from the United States, the commonwealth or any
authority created under the laws thereof, as well as under Chapter 34 of the
Ordinances of 1984, as amended.
(CBC 1985 9-11.5; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [504])
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984 has been codified as Subsections 10-2.1
through 10-2.10 and 10-2.14 through 10-2.23.
9-11.6   Enforcement.
   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall notify the
landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development in the
event the development is found to be in noncompliance with the provisions of
this Section and shall order compliance. Said landlord shall have 30 days from
the date of notification in which to achieve compliance with the Commissioner’s
order. Upon the expiration of the 30-day period, the landlord of a housing
development still in violation of the order shall be subject to a fine of $150.
Each day’s failure to comply with the order thereafter shall constitute a
separate violation of the Commissioner’s order. Orders shall be enforced in a
manner similar to that provided for enforcement of orders under Chapter I of
the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 410. Tenants and/or tenant
organizations of elderly/handicapped multi-family housing developments shall
have the right to request investigation by the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department if they believe that their landlords have failed to comply
with the provisions of Subsection 9-11.1 through Subsection 9-11.5 and shall
have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar
to that provided in M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 127B if the Commissioner fails
to respond to a request for investigation, if the Commissioner fails to make
findings of non-compliance following an investigation, or if the Commissioner
fails to issue orders upon a finding of non-compliance.
(CBC 1985 9-11.6; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [505])
9-11.7   Non-Liability of the City.
   The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to establish any duty
on the part of the city greater than the city’s general public duty to protect
its citizens’ health, safety, security and well-being. No determination by the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or the Boston Police
Department as to the adequacy of a landlord’s security measures shall be
construed as a warranty or guarantee of such security, and the sole
responsibility for insuring that security measures are adequate to protect
tenants from foreseeable harm or risk shall rest and remain with the owner of
such property.
(CBC 1985 9-11.7; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 3)
9-11.8   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision, or
portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 9-11.8; Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 4)
9-12   SECURITY FOR STUDENT HOUSING.
9-12.1   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRIME PREVENTION SURVEY. A survey conducted by the Boston Police Department
identifying the security needs of the occupants and neighbors of student
housing and making recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through
existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers,
resident managers, security stations, security systems or other equipment,
personnel or program. See also Section 11-1, as amended.
   DWELLING UNIT. As defined in Subsection 9-11.1.
   LANDLORD. The individual who holds title or control of any student housing
including, without limitation, a partnership, corporation, condominium
association or trust. For purposes of this Section, the rights and duties of
the LANDLORD hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls
or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the LANDLORD.
   NEIGHBORS OF STUDENT HOUSING. Persons who reside or operate businesses
within the same precinct as the student housing involved.
   OCCUPANTS OF STUDENT HOUSING. Persons who rent or occupy buildings,
structures, developments or complexes which come within the definition of
student housing, regardless of whether such persons are themselves students of
undergraduate institutions.
   SECURITY PLAN. A plan for providing security for the occupants and neighbors
of student housing, based upon a crime prevention survey, which meets the
criteria set forth in Subsection 9-12.3 and which has been developed in
accordance with the process set forth in Subsection 9-12.4.
   STUDENT HOUSING. Any building, structure, development or complex of one or
more dwelling units under common ownership or control, rented or offered for
rent for dwelling purposes within the city, which is rented to or occupied by
persons who are students in undergraduate institutions; provided, however, one,
two and three family properties which are occupied by all of the legal and
beneficial owners of the property shall be exempt from this Section; provided
further, however, that in buildings, structures, developments or complexes
consisting of less than 20 dwelling units, 50% or more of such dwelling units
must be rented to or occupied by persons who are students in undergraduate
institutions, and that in buildings, structures, developments or complexes
consisting of 20 or more dwelling units, at least ten of such dwelling units
must be rented to or occupied by persons who are students in undergraduate
institutions. Such STUDENT HOUSING shall include dwelling units which are
rented out to institutions, corporations or persons, and in turn are then
sublet to, or occupied by, students of undergraduate institutions. Such STUDENT
HOUSING shall not include housing which is located on the campus of a
university or college or housing which is controlled by a university or
college, so long as the university or college provides security for such
housing to protect students, occupants and neighbors of such housing. In
determining whether property continues to be used as STUDENT HOUSING, the
Commissioner shall treat vacant units which were formerly rented to or occupied
by students in undergraduate institutions as counting toward the unit
threshold, unless the landlord establishes by clear and convincing evidence
that it is no longer his or her intent to rent out such units to students of
undergraduate institutions.
(CBC 1985 9-12.1; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [506])
9-12.2   Security Requirements for Student Housing Where There is Probable
Cause to Believe That There is a Risk to the Occupants or Neighbors of Such
Housing.
   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall promulgate
regulations, pursuant to his or her authority under M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section
127A, and consistent with the requirements of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code,
being 105 CMR 400 and 410, and Subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.5. These
regulations shall take effect within 90 days of the effective date of this
Section. Such regulations shall require the following.
   (A)   A complaint process shall be established whereby occupants and
neighbors of student housing may file a complaint and request for investigation
with the Inspectional Services Department if there are breaches of the peace
and quiet enjoyment of the public or the occupants of such student housing
committed on or near such student housing premises. A neighbor or occupant of
student housing may file a complaint upon obtaining the signatures and
addresses of nine other neighbors or occupants of the student housing premises.
Such complaints shall be taken without regard to whether the premises do in
fact come within the definition of student housing.
   (B)   (1)   Within ten days of receipt of a complaint under this Section,
the Inspectional Services Department shall investigate to determine:
         (a)   Whether the premises appear to meet the definition of student
housing in terms of the number of units and the number of units occupied by
students; and
         (b)   Whether there is probable cause to believe that there is a risk
to the safety, security and quiet enjoyment of occupants or neighbors of
student housing as the result of insufficient security measures taken with
regard to such student housing.
      (2)   Such investigation shall be completed within ten days of receipt of
the complaint by the issuance of a notice determining whether there is or is
not probable cause to proceed further. Such notice shall be sent to the
landlord of the student housing and to the complaining party or parties and to
the dean of student affairs of the undergraduate institution in which the
students are enrolled. Complaining parties who have been notified that there is
no probable cause to proceed further shall have the right to request a hearing
from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in M.G.L Chapter
111, Section 127B to challenge the Commissioner’s failure to respond to a
request for investigation or to challenge the Commissioner’s determination that
there is no probable cause to proceed further.
   (C)   (1)   If the Commissioner determines that there is probable cause to
proceed, the notice to the landlord shall state the following.
         (a)   The landlord may request a hearing to contest the finding of
probable cause, which shall be conducted in a manner similar to that proceed in
M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 127B.
         (b)   If the landlord does not request a hearing in a timely manner,
the landlord must request a crime prevention survey to identify the steps that
can be taken by the landlord to ensure the safety, security and quiet enjoyment
of occupants and neighbors of the student housing.
      (2)   The notice shall also state that if the landlord fails to request a
hearing within ten days of the date of the Commissioner’s notice of probable
cause, the landlord shall be deemed to have waived election of a hearing, and
shall be ordered to request a crime prevention survey.
   (D)   If a landlord fails to request a hearing as provided in division (C)
above, or if a hearing is requested and, following such hearing, it is
determined by a preponderance of the evidence that there is probable cause to
believe that there is a risk to the safety, security and quiet enjoyment of
occupants or neighbors of student housing as the result of insufficient
security measures taken with regard to such student housing, the Commissioner
of the Inspectional Services Department shall order the landlord to request a
crime prevention survey within ten days. If the landlord fails to make such a
request, he or she shall be subject to a fine of $150. Each day’s failure to
respond to the Commissioner’s order thereafter shall constitute a separate
violation. The landlord shall also be subject to prosecution for failing to
respond to the Commissioner’s order in the same manner as is provided for under
Article II of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code. Occupants and neighbors of the
student housing shall also have a private right of action to seek enforcement
of the landlord’s obligation to request a crime prevention survey.
   (E)   If the landlord requests a crime prevention survey and, following the
survey, it is determined that a security plan is necessary, the landlord must
provide the security measures identified in the security plan, as developed and
approved in compliance with the provisions of Subsections 9-12.3 and 9-12.4.
After a security plan is adopted, the landlord shall have the continuing duty
to provide the security measures identified in the security plan. Any request
for modification in the security plan must be submitted to the Inspectional
Services Department for prior review and approval. Failure to continue to
provide the security measures mandated by a security plan shall constitute a
violation of this Section and be subject to enforcement under Subsection 9-
12.5.
   (F)   If, at any time following a finding of probable cause by the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department, the landlord of student
housing changes the way in which the property is rented out, such that it is
the landlord’s position that the property no longer meets the definition of
student housing, the landlord shall so notify the Commissioner in writing. The
Commissioner shall investigate the landlord’s claim and shall give notice of
the same and an opportunity to respond to the complaining parties. Such
investigation shall be completed within ten days of receipt of the landlord’s
notice by the issuance of a notice determining whether the premises should
continue to be treated as student housing subject to the provisions of this
Section. Such notice shall be sent to the landlord of the student housing and
to the complaining party or parties. Parties aggrieved by the Commissioner’s
determination shall have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner
in a manner similar to that provided in M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 127B.
(CBC 1985 9-12.2; Ord. 1992 c.1 § 1 [507]) Penalty, see Subsection 9-12.5
9-12.3   Criteria for a Security Plan.
   (A)   A security plan shall be based upon a crime prevention survey which
has been completed by the Boston Police Department, and shall incorporate all
of the elements recommended by the crime prevention survey for the adequate
protection of the occupants and neighbors of the student housing, except as
otherwise provided in Subsection 9-12.4. Each crime prevention survey shall
include both findings as to the security needs of the occupants and neighbors
of the student housing and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met
through existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety
officers, resident managers, security stations, security systems or other
equipment, personnel or programs. Each survey shall also include a one page
summary, on official Boston Police Department stationery, itemizing the
elements recommended.
   (B)   The landlord shall be responsible for arranging for a crime prevention
survey by the Boston Police Department, and shall notify the Commissioner of
the Inspectional Services Department in writing at the same time that he or she
requests such survey from the Boston Police Department. No fee shall be
assessed to the landlord for such survey. The Boston Police Department shall
carry out such crime prevention survey and provide a copy of the same to the
landlord and the Inspectional Services Department upon completion, as provided
for in Section 11-1, as amended. Such surveys shall be completed within 30 days
of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention survey.
(CBC 1985 9-12.3; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [508]) Penalty, see Subsection 9-12.5
9-12.4   Process for Approval of a Security Plan.
   (A)   (1)   Approval of security plan incorporating security measures
recommended by crime prevention survey.
         (a)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the crime prevention survey,
the landlord shall prepare a security plan for approval by the Commissioner of
the Inspectional Services Department. Such plan shall be deemed to be in full
compliance within this Section; provided that:
            1.   The security plan mandates, at the very least, the provision
of the security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey; and
            2.   The parties whose complaint triggered the probable cause
finding have not articulated security needs which are not adequately addressed
by the survey or the plan.
         (b)   If the crime prevention survey indicates that no security
measures are needed additional to those already in effect at the student
housing, the security plan shall be presumed to be sufficient so long as the
landlord, in such plan, agrees to keep in effect all existing security
measures; this presumption, however, may be rebutted by the complaining
parties. In all cases, the complaining parties or their authorized
representatives must be given the opportunity to present their views to the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the
plan is accepted. The Commissioner shall ensure that prior notice of such
hearing, as well as a copy of the landlord’s security plan and the crime
prevention survey, are provided to the complaining parties or their authorized
representatives. Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall approve or
modify the security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the crime
prevention survey and the security needs articulated by the complaining
parties. In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon,
the Commissioner shall consult with a certified Crime Prevention Officer from
the Boston Police Department, as provided for in Section 11-1, as amended. The
Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a written
decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten days of the
hearing date.
      (2)   Petition for a modified security plan; approval process. Within 30
days of receipt of the crime prevention survey, if the landlord of student
housing disputes the need for any of the specific security measures recommended
by the crime prevention survey, or the method or the timetable for carrying out
security measures, based on the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to
the particular housing, then the landlord can petition the Commissioner of the
Inspectional Services Department for permission to submit a modified security
plan which does not encompass all of the security measures mandated by the
crime prevention survey. Such petition shall be accompanied by a proposed
security plan. If a landlord submits a petition for a modified security plan,
the landlord shall have the burden to show how any of the specific security
measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary, or, given
the fiscal or contracting constraints particular to the development, how
changes are needed in the method or timetable for implementation of security
measures.
   (B)   In all cases, the complaining parties or their authorized
representatives must be given the opportunity to present their views to the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the
petition and plan is accepted. The Commissioner shall ensure that prior notice
of such hearing, as well as a copy of the landlord’s security plan and the
crime prevention survey, are provided to the complaining parties or their
authorized representatives. Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall
approve or modify the security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the
crime prevention survey and the security needs articulated by the complaining
parties.
   (C)   Following the hearing, if the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department finds that:
      (1)   Any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime
prevention survey are unnecessary to meet the security needs of occupants or
neighbors of the student housing; or
      (2)   Within the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the
particular development, the landlord’s proposed plan will provide a reasonable
method or timetable for meeting security needs; the Commissioner shall either
approve the petition for a modified security plan or make such modifications to
the plan as are necessary.
   (D)   In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon,
the Commissioner shall consult with a certified Crime Prevention Officer from
the Boston Police Department, as provided for in Section 11-1 as amended. The
Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a written
decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten days of the
hearing date.
(CBC 1985 9-12.4; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [509]) Penalty, see Subsection 9-12.5
9-12.5   Enforcement.
   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall notify the
landlord of student housing in the event the housing is found to be in
noncompliance with the provisions of Subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.4, and
shall order compliance. Except as otherwise provided in Subsections 9-12.1
through 9-12.4, said landlord shall have 30 days from the date of notification
in which to achieve compliance with the Commissioner’s order. Upon the
expiration of the 30-day period, the landlord of student housing still in
violation of the order shall be subject to a fine of $150. Each day’s failure
to comply with the order thereafter shall constitute a separate violation of
the Commissioner’s order. Orders shall be enforced in a manner similar to that
provided for enforcement of orders under Article II of the commonwealth’s
Sanitary Code. Occupants and neighbors of student housing shall have the right
to request investigation by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department in the manner provided in Subsection 9-12.2 if they believe that a
landlord of student housing has failed to comply with the provisions of
Subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.4. Such persons shall have the right to request
a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in M.G.L.
Chapter 111, Section 127B if the Commissioner fails to respond to a request for
investigation, if the Commissioner fails to make findings of noncompliance
following an investigation, or if the Commissioner fails to issue orders upon a
finding of noncompliance.
(CBC 1985 9-12.5; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [510])
9-12.6   Non-Liability of the City.
   The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to establish any duty
on the part of the city greater than the city’s general public duty to protect
its citizens’ health, safety, security and well-being. No determination by the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or the Boston Police
Department as to the adequacy of a landlord’s security measures shall be
construed as a warranty or guarantee of such security, and the sole
responsibility for ensuring that security measures are adequate to protect
occupants and neighbors from foreseeable harm or risk shall rest and remain
with the owner of such property.
(CBC 1985 9-12.6; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 3)
9-12.7   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision, or
portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions which remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 9-12.7; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 4)
9-13   PROBLEM PROPERTIES TASK FORCE.
9-13.1   Establishing a Problem Properties Task Force.
   There is hereby established in the Mayor’s Office an advisory panel to be
known as the Problem Properties Task Force, the members of which shall meet and
share information concerning various properties in the city as more fully
outlined herein. The panel shall advise the Mayor, or his or her designee, of
the actions taken by various City Departments and public Agencies to address
problems associated with such property and each member of the panel may use the
information about such property in order to better enforce the laws,
ordinances, codes or regulations that fall within such member’s jurisdiction.
   (A)   The Task Force shall be chaired by a member of the Mayor’s staff who
shall have the full confidence of the Mayor, and shall be housed in a
Department of the Mayor’s Office as the Mayor shall, from time to time,
designate.
   (B)   Members of the Task Force shall be:
      (1)   The Police Commissioner;
      (2)   The Fire Commissioner;
      (3)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services;
      (4)   Director of the Office of Neighborhood Services;
      (5)   Director of Neighborhood Develop- ment;
      (6)   The Chief Administrator of the Boston Housing Authority;
      (7)   The Chief of the Fair Housing Division;
      (8)   The Commissioner of Public Health;
      (9)   The Collector-Treasurer;
      (10)   The Director of the Air Pollution Control; and
      (11)   Commission The Corporation Counsel
   (C)   The Task Force shall have regular monthly meetings in City Hall and
may meet at other locations in the city. Emergency meetings shall be held at
the call of the Chair.
   (D)   Upon the effective date of this Section, each member of the Task Force
shall make a diligent search of the records of his or her Department and gather
all records of multiple calls from the public concerning specific addresses in
the last 12-month period. Such records shall be forwarded to the Chair, or his
or her designee, who shall establish master files for each address forwarded
containing all records concerning that address. Such files may be kept in
electronic form. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Police Commissioner shall
not forward any record that is part of a criminal investigation.
   (E)   A PROBLEM PROPERTY shall be defined as:
      (1)   Any property to which the Boston Police Department has been
dispatched or caused to respond not fewer than four times within the preceding
12-month period for any incident involving any criminal offense including, but
not limited to, disturbing the peace, trespassing, underage drinking or assault
or violation of any city ordinance involving unreasonable or excessive noise;
      (2)   Any property concerning which the Air Pollution Control Commission
has received not fewer than four complaints for noise within the preceding 12-
month period;
      (3)   Any property that the Inspectional Services Department or the
Public Health Commission has received not fewer than four complaints within the
preceding 12-month period for noxious, noisome or unsanitary conditions; or
      (4)   The Boston Fire Department has received not fewer than four
sustained complaints within the preceding 12-month period for dangerous and
hazardous conditions. Provided, however, that the designation of a property as
a problem property shall be made by the Chair taking into consideration the
nature of the complaints, the number of dwelling units at the property and the
nature of the property.
   (F)   Upon review of each file, the members of the Task Force may determine
that a particular property warrants heightened scrutiny by the Agency or
Agencies that they head.
      (1)   In the case of properties in or around which recurring criminal
activity has occurred in the preceding 12 months, the Boston Police
Commissioner shall consider the appropriate Police action to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the property and the public
and all other enforcement actions permitted by law.
      (2)   In the case of properties which have had multiple building and/or
sanitary code violations in the preceding 12 months, the Inspectional Services
Commissioner and the Executive Director of the Public Health Commission shall,
as appropriate, consider whether to expedite code enforcement proceedings and
all other enforcement actions permitted by law.
      (3)   In the case of properties which have had recurring violations of
noise regulations in the preceding 12 months, the Executive Director of the Air
Pollution Control Commission shall coordinate with the Law Department to
institute proceedings for injunctive relief.
      (4)   In the case of properties which have had multiple fire code
violations in the preceding 12 months, the Fire Department Commissioner shall,
as appropriate, consider any action necessary to protect the public from all
dangerous and hazardous conditions and other enforcement actions permitted by
law.
      (5)   Properties that meet the definition of a problem property set forth
in division (E) above are subject to designation as “problem properties”.
   (G)   The Chair of the Task Force shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance, including notifying a property owner of the
designation of his or her property as a problem property, and notifying a
property owner of the intention to impose charges to recover the cost of public
safety expenses related to that property.
   (H)   The Corporation Counsel shall commence foreclosure proceedings for any
such property described above in division (F) above which has delinquent real
estate taxes.
   (I)   The Chair of the Task Force shall issue a quarterly report to the
Mayor and Boston City Council on the actions undertaken by the Agencies
represented by its members on problem properties.
(CBC 1985 9-13.1; Ord. 2013 c. 8)
9-14   SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS.
9-14.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to provide a process through which certain
dwelling units may be registered with the city for use as short-term rental
units under the stipulations laid out within the ordinance.
(CBC 1985 9-14.1; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING AGENT. Any person or entity that facilitates reservations or
collects payment for a short-term rental on behalf of or for an operator.
   CODE. Boston Zoning Code.
   COMMISSIONER. Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or a
designee.
   DND. The City Department of Neighborhood Development
   DoIT. The City Department of Innovation and Technology
   HOME SHARE UNIT. A residential unit offered as a short-term rental that is
the operator’s primary residence. Occupancy shall be limited to five bedrooms
or ten guests in a HOME SHARE UNIT, whichever is less.
   INELIGIBLE UNITS LIST. A list maintained by the city of residential units
deemed ineligible for use as short-term rental units subject to the provisions
of Subsection 9-14.4(A).
   ISD. The City Inspectional Services Department.
   LIMITED SHARE UNIT. A residential unit that is the operator’s primary
residence, a portion of which is offered as a short-term rental while the
operator is present. Occupancy shall be limited to three bedrooms or six guests
in a LIMITED SHARE UNIT, whichever is less. One bedroom must be reserved for
the operator.
   OPERATOR. A natural person who is the owner of the residential unit that he
or she seeks to offer as a short-term rental. Only one owner may be registered
as an OPERATOR on the short-term rental registry for a residential unit, and it
shall be unlawful for any other person, even if that person is an owner and
meets the qualifications of primary resident, to offer a residential unit for
short-term residential rental.
   OWNER-ADJACENT UNIT. A residential unit offered as a short-term rental that
is not the owner’s primary residence but that is located within the same
dwelling as the primary residence of, and is owned by, said owner; provided
that, OWNER-ADJACENT UNITS used as short-term rentals shall only be allowed in
two-family or three-family dwellings where all units are owned by the same
unique owner-occupant who serves as the operator; provided further that, for
the purposes of owner-occupied three-family residential dwellings, in addition
to the unit in which they reside and use as a home share or limited share unit,
an operator of an owner-adjacent unit may only register and use one owner-
adjacent unit as a short-term rental.
   PRIMARY RESIDENCE. The residential unit in which the operator resides for at
least nine months out of a 12-month period. PRIMARY RESIDENCE is demonstrated
by showing that as of the date of registration of the residential unit on the
short-term rental registry, the operator has resided in the residential unit
for nine of the past 12 months or that the operator intends to reside in the
residential unit for nine of the next 12 months, as demonstrated by at least
two of the following: utility bill, voter registration, motor vehicle
registration, deed, lease, driver’s license or state-issued identification or
proof of residential exemption.
   REGISTRATION NUMBER. A unique identification number generated for a single
residential unit registered as a short-term rental. REGISTRATION NUMBERS shall
be valid for the calendar year during which they are assigned, January 1
through December 31, and shall be associated with both a single residential
unit and a single operator. The REGISTRATION NUMBER must be included on any
listing or advertisement offering a unit as a short-term rental.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling unit within a dwelling classified as a
residential use, as those terms are defined in the Code, but excluding: a
congregate living complex; elderly housing; a group residence, limited; a
homeless shelter; orphanage; temporary dwelling structure; and transitional
housing. The term RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall not include a hotel, motel, executive
suite or other non-residential use.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL(S). The use of a residential unit for residential
occupancy by a person or persons for a period of fewer than 28 consecutive
calendar days for a fee. A SHORT-TERM RENTAL may or may not be facilitated
through a booking agent.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRY. The database maintained by ISD, in conjunction
with DoIT, that includes information on operators who are permitted to offer
their residential units as short-term rentals. The SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRY
may be a stand-alone registry or may be incorporated into the electronic
database maintained by ISD pursuant to Subsection 9-1.3, Inspection and
Reinspection of Rental Units; provided that the location of the short-term
rental with the SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRY shall be made public.
(CBC 1985 9-14.2; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.3   Short-Term Residential Rentals in the City.
   No residential unit shall be offered as a short-term rental except in
compliance with the provisions of this Section.
(CBC 1985 9-14.3; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.4A Ineligible Residential Units.
   The following residential units are not eligible to be offered as short-term
rentals:
   (A)   Residential units designated as below market rate or income-
restricted, that are subject to affordibility covenants or that are otherwise
subject to housing or rental assistance under local, commonwealth or federal
law;
   (B)   Residential units subject to any requirement of local, commonwealth or
federal law that prohibits the leasing or subleasing of the unit or use of the
unit as a short-term rental;
   (C)   Residential units that are located within properties designated as
“problem properties” or “public nuisance properties” by the Mayor’s Problem
Properties Task Force, or properties owned by property owners that own any
property that is currently designated as a “problem property” or a “public
nuisance property”, as defined in Subsection 9-13.1(E) and Subsection 16-57.2;
and
   (D)   Residential units that are the subject of three or more findings of
violations of this Section within a six-month period, or three or more
violations of any municipal ordinance or commonwealth law or code relating to
excessive noise, improper disposal of trash, disorderly conduct or other
similar conduct within a six-month period.
(CBC 1985 9-14.4A; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.4B   Residential Units Not Subject to Certain Provisions of this Chapter.
   (A)   Currently licensed lodging houses. A residential unit offered as a
short-term rental that is located in a dwelling holding a current and valid
certificate of occupancy as a lodging house from ISD and a lodging house
license from the Boston Licensing Board as of the effective date of this
Section 9-14 shall be subject to the registration requirements contained
herein, but shall not be subject to the limitations contained in Subsection 9-
14.5(B), (C) or (D).
   (B)   Existing bed and breakfasts. A residential unit offered as a short-
term rental that holds a current and valid certificate of occupancy as a bed
and breakfast from ISD as of the effective date of this Section shall be
subject to the registration requirements contained herein, but shall not be
subject to the limitations contained in Subsection 9-14.5(B), (C) or (D).
   (C)   Residential units contracted for hospital stays. The use of a dwelling
unit or portion thereof for which a contract exists between the owner of the
dwelling unit and a health-care facility or government entity or non-profit
organization registered as a charitable organization with the Secretary of the
commonwealth or classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a public charity
or private foundation that provides for the temporary housing in such unit of
individuals who are being treated for trauma, injury or disease, or their
family members, shall not be considered a short-term rental.
   (D)   Residential units used for furnished institutional or business stays.
The use of a residential unit for which a contract or an agreement exists
between the building owner, a corporate housing operator and an institution or
business for the temporary housing of employees or individuals affiliated with
such institutions or business, where the minimum stay is at least ten days,
shall not be considered a short-term rental.
(CBC 1985 9-14.4B; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.5   Requirements for Short-Term Rentals.
   An operator may only offer one whole unit listing at a given time subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   Registration. Registration pursuant to Subsection 9-14.6.
   (B)   Short-term rental of a limited share unit. An operator may offer his
or her limited share unit as a short-term rental for 365 days per year.
   (C)   Short-term rental of a home share unit. An operator may offer his or
her home share unit as a short-term rental for up 365 days per year.
   (D)   Short-term rental of an owner-adjacent unit. An operator may offer his
or her owner-adjacent unit as a short-term rental for 365 consecutive days per
year.
   (E)   Permission of owner. An operator must certify at the time of
registration that he or she has the following permissions to offer his or her
residential unit as a short-term rental:
      (1)   Operator is the owner of the residential unit offered as a short-
term rental; and
      (2)   That offering the residential unit as a short-term rental complies
with applicable condominium documents, by-laws or other governing documents.
   (F)   Local contact. When registering, an operator must provide his or her
name and contact information, and, in the event the operator is not present
during the short-term rental, the name and contact information of an individual
who is able to respond in person to any issues or emergencies that arise during
the short-term rental within two hours of being notified. Contact information
must include a telephone number that is active 24 hours per day to tenants,
short-term rental occupants and public safety agencies. This phone number shall
be included in the registration of the short-term rental unit at the time of
registration.
   (G)   No outstanding violations. The residential unit offered as a short-
term rental shall not be subject to any outstanding building, sanitary, zoning
or fire code violations, orders of abatement or stop work orders or other
requirements, laws or regulations that prohibit the operator from offering the
residential unit as a short-term rental. If a violation or other order is
issued after the residential unit has been listed on the Short-Term Rental
Registry, ISD shall suspend the residential unit’s registration on the Short-
Term Rental Registry until the violation has been cured or otherwise resolved.
   (H)   Compliance and interaction with other laws. Operators shall comply
with all applicable federal, commonwealth and local laws and codes, including,
but not limited to, the Fair Housing Act, M.G.L. Chapter 151B and local
equivalents and regulations related thereto, and all other regulations
applicable to residential dwellings. The residential unit offered as a short-
term rental shall be in compliance with Subsection 9-1.4, Rental Dwelling Unit
Delivery Standards. Those residential units offered as short-term rentals that
are subject to Subsection 9-1.3, Inspection and Reinspection of Rental Units,
shall continue to be subject to the requirements of that Section, including the
payment of fees.
   (I)   Retention of records. The operator shall retain and make available to
ISD, upon written request, records to demonstrate compliance with this Section,
including, but not limited to: records demonstrating number of months that
operator has resided or will reside in residential unit; records showing that
operator is the owner of residential unit offered as a short-term rental; and
records demonstrating number of days per year that residential unit is offered
as a short-term rental. The operator shall retain such records for a period of
three years from the date the residential unit is registered with ISD.
   (J)   Notifications.
      (1)   The operator shall include the registration number issued by ISD on
any listing offering the residential unit as a short-term rental and shall post
a sign on the inside of the residential unit providing information on the
location of all fire extinguishers in the unit, and, if applicable, the
location of all fire extinguishers, fire exits and pull fire alarms in the
dwelling.
      (2)   The booking agent shall permit an operator to include the
registration number issued by ISD on any listing offering the residential unit
as a short-term rental.
      (3)   The operator shall, within 30 days of approved registration,
provide notice to abutters of a residential unit that the residential unit has
been registered as a short-term residential rental. For the purposes of this
Section, an ABUTTER shall be defined as any residential dwelling located within
300 feet of said residential unit.
(CBC 1985 9-14.5; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.6   Short-Term Rental Registration Process; Certifications; Fee.
   (A)   Registration process. 
      (1)   An operator who wishes to offer his or her residential unit as a
short-term rental shall register with ISD, online or in a paper form prescribed
by ISD, to be listed on the Short-Term Rental Registry. A registration shall be
valid for a one-year term, from January 1 through December 31 of each year or
for such alternative 12-month period as the Commissioner shall determine. An
operator shall provide information to be listed on the Registry, including:
operator name, address of residential unit, operator’s relationship to the
unit, whether residential unit is being offered as a limited share, home share
or owner-adjacent unit and other information as required by ISD. The operator
shall also certify that he or she and the residential unit comply with the
requirements of this Section. An operator who successfully registers his or her
residential unit as a short-term rental shall be issued a registration number.
      (2)   Upon submission, and on an on-going basis as necessary,
registration information shall be compared to information managed and
maintained by City Departments, including, but not limited to, DoIT and DND, in
order to efficiently and effectively verify compliance with the provisions of
this Section. ISD shall make submissions to the Short-Term Rental Registry, or
data contained within such submissions, available electronically within 30
days.
   (B)   Fees. Units shall be annually recorded in the Short-Term Rental
Registry pursuant to the following.
      (1)   The annual registration fee for limited share units shall be $25.
      (2)   The annual registration fee for home share units shall be $200.
      (3)   The annual registration fee for owner-adjacent units shall be $200.
   (C)   Re-registration upon unit turnover. A registration shall be tied to
both the residential unit and the operator and will not automatically transfer
upon the sale of the unit. New operators are responsible for ensuring that they
re-register with ISD to obtain a new registration number if they wish to
continue to list the residential unit on the Short-Term Rental Registry.
   (D)   Amending registration upon change in primary residence. If an operator
offering a registered residential unit ceases to be a primary resident of the
unit, the operator shall immediately notify ISD to remove the unit from the
Short-Term Rental Registry.
   (E)   Bulk registration by booking agent. Nothing herein shall prohibit a
booking agent from entering into an agreement with the city to provide
registration services for short-term rental operators.
(Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.7   Room Occupancy Excise.
   A residential unit subject to the provisions of this Section that is also
subject to the Room Occupancy Excise under M.G.L Chapter 64G or any other
excise or surcharge pertaining to short-term rentals or transient occupancy
shall comply with the provisions of said statutes. Notwithstanding any
provision or requirement to the contrary, an operator may use a Booking Agent
for the purposes of collecting and remitting the applicable room occupancy
excise to the commonwealth, and said booking agent shall enter into an
agreement with the city for the collection and remittance of such tax. If an
operator does not use a booking agent to collect payment for a short-term
rental, the operator shall be responsible for collecting and remitting the
applicable room occupancy excise tax to the commonwealth.
(Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.8   Complaint Process; Violations.
   (A)   Complaint. A complaint alleging that a residential unit is in
violation of this Section or any applicable law, code or regulation may be
filed with ISD. The complaint must contain the residential unit’s address, unit
number, date and nature of alleged violations) and name and contact information
of complainant.
   (B)   Review of complaint. Within 30 days after receipt of a complaint, the
Commissioner, or a designee, shall investigate the complaint and shall
determine whether mere may be a violation. If the alleged violation is under
the jurisdiction of another city or commonwealth or federal Agency, the
Commissioner shall refer the complaint to such Agency for further action. Upon
a finding of a potential violation, the Commissioner, or designee, shall serve
notice of the violation upon the operator of the residential unit at issue, if
such unit is listed on the Short-Term Rental Registry, and upon the owner or
resident agent of record of the residential unit at issue, if such unit is not
listed on the Short-Term Rental Registry. The Commissioner shall keep records
of all complaints received and determinations made.
   (C)   Right to hearing. A person upon whom a notice of violation has been
served may request a hearing from ISD by filing a written petition requesting a
hearing on the matter with ISD within 14 days after the day the notice of
violation was served. Upon receipt of a petition for hearing, ISD shall notify
the complainant of the place, date and time of the hearing. The hearing shall
occur no later than two weeks after the date ISD receives the petition for
hearing. The time period in which violations must be remedied shall be stayed
upon receipt of the petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is
held and the Commissioner, or designee, has issued a decision.
   (D)   Decision. 
      (1)   Within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Commissioner, or designee, shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice of
violation and shall inform the person upon whom a notice of violation has been
served, in writing, of its decision and the reasons therefor. If ISD sustains
or modifies the notice of violation, said violation shall be remedied within
the time period allotted as issued or in the modification.
      (2)   If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with ISD within 14
days after the notice of violation has been served, or if, after a hearing, the
notice of violation has been sustained in any part, each day’s failure to
comply with the notice of violation within the time allotted as issued or
modified shall constitute a separate violation.
   (E)   Judicial appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of ISD with
respect to a notice of violation or any other order issued under this Section
may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by
the laws of the commonwealth.
(CBC 1985 9-14.8; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.9   Penalties.
   (A)   Offering an ineligible unit as a short-term rental. Any person who
offers a unit as a short-term rental, or any booking agent who accepts a fee
for booking a unit as a short-term rental, where such unit is not an eligible
residential unit, shall be fined $300 per violation per day. Each day’s failure
to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall constitute a
separate violation. The Commissioner, or a designee, may also seek an
injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the offering of
the unit as a short-term rental.
   (B)   Failure to register. Any person who offers an eligible residential
unit as a short-term rental without registering with ISD, or any person who
offers an eligible residential unit as a short-term rental while the unit’s
registration on the Short-Term Rental Registry is suspended, shall be fined
$100 per violation per day. Each day’s failure to comply with a notice of
violation or any other order shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Failure to comply with notice of violation. Any person who fails to
comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this
Section by the Commissioner, or a designee, for a violation of any provision of
this Section shall be fined $100 dollars per violation per day. Each day’s
failure to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall
constitute a separate violation.
(CBC 1985 9-14.9; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.10   Enforcement.
   (A)   Enforcement by city. The provisions of this Section may be enforced in
accordance with the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D, and, if applicable, by seeking to restrain a violation by
injunction. The provisions of this Section may also be enforced according to
M.G.L. Chapter 40U as accepted by the city, also known as the “Green Ticket”
Law.
   (B)   Enforcement by booking agent. 
      (1)   The Commissioner shall enter into agreements with booking agents
for assistance in enforcing the provisions of this Section, including, but not
limited to, an agreement whereby the booking agent agrees to remove a listing
from its platform for exceeding the maximum number of days a residential unit
may be offered as a short-term rental, whereby the booking agent agrees to
remove a listing from its platform that is deemed ineligible for use as a
short-term rental under the provisions of this Section, and whereby the booking
agent agrees to prohibit a host from listing any listing without a valid
registration number from the city.
      (2)   Any booking agent that fails to enter into such agreements to
actively prevent, remove or de-list any ineligible listings shall be prohibited
from conducting business in the city.
(CBC 1985 9-14.10; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.11   Data Sharing.
   A booking agent shall provide to the city, on a monthly basis, an electronic
report, in a format determined by the city, in consultation with ISD, DoIT and
DND, of the listings maintained, authorized, facilitated or advertised by the
booking agent within the city for the applicable reporting period. The report
shall include a breakdown of where the listings are located, whether the
listing is for a room or a whole unit, and shall include the number of nights
each unit was reported as occupied during the applicable reporting period.
(CBC 1985 9-14.11; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
9-14.12   Regulations.
   The Commissioner, in consultation with DoIT and DND, may promulgate
regulations to carry out the provisions of this Section.
(CBC 1985 9-14.2; Ord. 2018 c. 5 § 1)
CHAPTER X: HOUSING SERVICES
Section
10-1   BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY
10-2   RENTAL HOUSING EQUITY ORDINANCE
   
10-2.1   Definitions
   
10-2.2   Rent Equity Board
   
10-2.3   Registration
   
10-2.4   Maximum Rent
   
10-2.5   Adjustment of Maximum Rent
   
10-2.6   Rent Grievances
   
10-2.7   Rent Adjustment Proceedings of Controlled Housing Accommodations
   
10-2.8   Information to be Supplied in Connection with Tenant Petitions and
Board Initiated Actions for Adjustment—Controlled Housing Accommodations
   
10-2.9   Evictions; Controlled and Vacancy Decontrolled Housing Accommodations
   
10-2.9A   Rights of Elderly and Handicapped Tenants to Have Pets
   
10-2.10   Condominium and Cooperative Conversion
   
10-2.11   Removal of Housing Accommodations Regulated
   
10-2.12   Permits for Removal/Conservations of Housing Accommodations in
Lodging Houses and Rooming Houses
   
10-2.13   Permits for Removal of Mobile Home Accommodations in Mobile Home
Parks
   
10-2.13A   Notice and Reasonable Opportunity to Purchase Units at the Time of
Initial Conversion to Condominiums or Cooperatives
   
10-2.13B   Interaction of This Section with Other Law; Transitional Provisions
   
10-2.14   Duties of the Board
   
10-2.15   Suspicious Fires
   
10-2.16   Civil Remedies
   
10-2.17   Criminal Penalties
   
10-2.18   Judicial Review
   
10-2.19   Injunctions
   
10-2.20   Effective Date and Duration
   
10-2.21   Constitutional Construction
   
10-2.22   Transitional Provisions
   
10-2.23   Renumbering Allowed by City Clerk
10-3   BOSTON FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION
   
10-3.1   Policy of the City
   
10-3.2   Establishment of the Boston Fair Housing Commission, Executive
Director, Staff
   
10-3.3   Function; Powers and Duties of the Commission
   
10-3.4   Relations with City Agencies
   
10-3.5   Rules and Regulations of the Commission
   
10-3.6   Severability
10-4   EMERGENCY SHELTER COMMISSION
   
10-4.1   Composition of Board
   
10-4.2   Powers and Duties
   
10-4.3   Severability
10-5   INSTITUTIONAL EXPANSION BOARD
   
10-5.1   Established; Members; Terms; Qualifications
   
10-5.2   Powers and Duties
   
10-5.3   Application Notice to be Sent to the Board
   
10-5.4   Terms of Members
   
10-5.5   Election of Chair; Expenses of Members
   
10-5.6   Definition
10-6   DECLARING A STATE OF EMERGENCY AND ESTABLISHING CONTROLS RELATIVE TO
INSTITUTIONAL EXPANSION
   
10-6.1   Declaration of Emergency
   
10-6.2   Definitions
   
10-6.3   Removal Regulated
   
10-6.4   Considerations
   
10-6.5   Penalties
   
10-6.6   Equitable Relief
   
10-6.7   Rules and Regulations; Promulgation of
   
10-6.8   Publishing of Reports Showing Payments in Lieu of Taxes from Tax-
Exempt Institutions
   
10-6.9   Dormitory Licensing and Registration
   
10-6.10   Inspection of Dormitories; Permit
   
10-6.11   Biannual Report of the Police Commissioner
   
10-6.12   Effectiveness and Severability
10-7   NEIGHBORHOOD IMPACT COMMISSION
   
10-7.1   Members; Qualifications
   
10-7.2   No Compensation or Expenses Allowed
   
10-7.3   Duties
10-8   NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING TRUST
   
10-8.1   Establishment
10-9   BOSTON RESIDENT PREFERENCE IN HOUSING PROGRAMS
   
10-9.1   Purpose
   
10-9.2   Definitions
   
10-9.3   Policy Statement
   
10-9.4   Annual Report
   
10-9.5   Implementation
   
10-9.6   Severability
10-10   UNIVERSITY ACCOUNTABILITY
   
10-10.1   Purpose
   
10-10.2   Definitions
   
10-10.3   Collection of Records—Directory
   
10-10.4   Report and Statistics Supplied to the City
   
10-10.5   Applicability
   
10-10.6   Regulatory Authority
   
10-10.7   Severability
   
10-10.8   Implementation
10-11   HOUSING STABILITY NOTIFICATION ACT
   
10-11.1   Purpose
   
10-11.2   Definitions
   
10-11.3   Applicability
   
10-11.4   Required Notice
   
10-11.5   Non-Waivability
   
10-11.6   Partial Invalidity
   
10-11.7   Enforcement
10-1   BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T10 c. 1; CBC 1985 10-)
10-2   RENTAL HOUSING EQUITY ORDINANCE.
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1995 c. 9 reaffirmed and reenacted Section 10-2 pursuant to
Chapter 527 of the Acts of 1983, as well as all other sources of authority, to
the extent applicable and authorized by law. Ordinance 1995 c. 9 was stricken
by Ordinance 1996 c. 3 which was adopted in its stead as an amendment to
Chapter X.
   Pursuant to Section 10-2 of the City of Boston Code, Chapter X, and the
authority of Chapter 527 of the Acts of 1983, where a tenant has condominium
conversion eviction ban status pursuant to Section 10-2 of the City of Boston
Code. Chapter X, such tenant shall have the same rent increase protections that
exist for a tenant under notice pursuant to Subsection 10-2.10 for the duration
of such ban and pursuant to such hardship provisions for rent increases to
ensure a fair net operating income as the Board may establish by regulation.
10-2.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE CONVERSION. The initial sale or transfer of legal
title to a housing accommodation and the recording of the master deed or
articles of organization pursuant to M.G.L. Chapters 156B, 157, 157B or 183A.
As used herein, such term shall also mean any activity by a landlord,
developer, investor or other persons which would result, is intended to result
or does result in a change in the form of ownership of any housing
accommodation to a CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE UNIT, whether by conversion of an
existing housing accommodation or through demolition and construction of a new
accommodation, or in the sale or transfer of legal title of any housing
accommodation as a CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE UNIT, and shall include the
transfer, sale, marketing, advertisement or Boston Redevelopment Authority,
Boston Zoning Commission or Boston Zoning Board of Appeals approval of any
housing accommodation as a condominium or cooperative unit.
   CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE CONVERSION EVICTION. 
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   An eviction of a tenant for the purpose of removing such tenant
from a housing accommodation in order to facilitate the initial sale and
transfer of legal title to a condominium or cooperative unit in such housing
accommodation to a prospective purchaser; or
         (b)   An eviction of a tenant by any other person who has purchased a
condominium or cooperative unit in a housing accommodation when the tenant
whose eviction is sought was a resident of the housing accommodation at the
time the notice of intent to convert is given or should have been given to
convert the housing accommodation to the condominium or cooperative form of
ownership pursuant to this Section. However, the eviction of a tenant for non-
payment of rent or other substantial violation of a rental agreement shall in
no event be deemed a CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE CONVERSION EVICTION, as long as
the landlord would have taken the same action at the same time whether or not
the landlord was converting the housing accommodation to the condominium or
cooperative form of ownership.
      (2)   If a landlord intends to transfer the housing accommodation to a
prospective purchaser where the landlord knows or should have known that the
prospective purchase intends to convert the housing accommodation to a
condominium or cooperative unit, and such prior landlord seeks to evict the
tenant in anticipation of conversion, such eviction shall be deemed to be a
CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE CONVERSION EVICTION for the purpose of this Section.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, the INITIAL SALE AND TRANSFER OF
LEGAL TITLE shall mean the first bona fide sale or proprietary lease for fair
market value and EVICTION shall include, without limitation, any action by a
landlord of a housing accommodation which causes substantial deprivation of a
tenant’s beneficial use of such housing accommodation, materially impairs such
tenant’s beneficial enjoyment of such housing accommodation or is intended to
compel such tenant to vacate or be constructively evicted from such housing
accommodation. An eviction shall be presumed to be a CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE
CONVERSION EVICTION if the landlord has the intent to convert, as defined
below.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. As defined in Section 3 of Chapter 527 of the Acts of
1983.
   CONVERSION PERMIT. The permit granted by the Inspectional Services
Department to the person or entity who intends to convert a housing
accommodation into a condominium or cooperative unit, allowing the person who
intends to make the initial sale and transfer of title to a residential unit in
a housing accommodation as one or more condominium or cooperative units
pursuant to an individual unit deed or deeds or, in the case of a cooperative,
a proprietary lease or leases.
   CONVERSION PLAN. The plan approved by the Office of Housing Stability which
details tenants’ rights, landlord’s responsibilities and requirements needed to
apply for a conversion permit.
   CONVERT. The initial offer, in any manner, for sale and transfer of title to
any residential unit as one or more condominium units pursuant to an individual
unit deed or deeds or, in the case of a cooperative, an individual proprietary
lease or leases.
   COOPERATIVE UNIT. A unit in a housing cooperative as set forth in M.G.L.
Chapter 157.
   DISABLED TENANT. Tenant or tenant household in which at least one member has
a physical or mental impairment, as of the date of the receipt of any notice
provided for hereunder is given or should have been given, or the exercising of
any right, whichever may occur later, under this Section, which:
      (1)   Substantially limits such person’s ability to care for them or
themself, perform manual tasks, walk, see, hear, speak, breathe, learn or work;
      (2)   Significantly limits the housing appropriate for such person or
significantly limits such person’s ability to seek new housing; or
      (3)   Meet the disability related provisions contained within the
definition of “handicapped persons of low income” in M.G.L. Chapter 121B,
Section 1; provided, a condition of dependency on alcohol or any controlled
substance shall not be the basis of a determination of a disability.
   ELDERLY TENANT. A tenant or tenant household in which at least one member is
at least 62 years of age as of the date of receipt of any notice or the
exercising of any right, whichever may occur later, under this Section.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. 
      (1)   Any building or buildings, structure or structures or part thereof
or land appurtenant thereto, or any other real or personal property rented or
offered for rent for living or dwelling purposes, within the city, including
without limitation, houses, apartments, condominium units, cooperative units,
rooming or boarding house units and other properties used for living or
dwelling purposes, together with all services connected with the use or
occupancy of such property; provided however, that mobile homes, trailers or
trailer or mobile home lots in mobile home parks, and publicly owned dwelling
units shall not be subject to this Section, but shall continue to be subject to
the protections contained in Subsection 10-2.2, and that to the extent such
HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS are publicly owned housing, publicly subsidized housing
or federally assisted housing within the meaning of M.G.L. Chapter 40P, Section
3(c), such that the city may have continued rent control enabling authority for
such housing accommodation, such housing accommodation shall not be subject to
this Section, but shall continue to be subject to the protections contained in
Sections 10-2 and 10-3 that the following shall not be contained within the
definition of HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS for the purpose of this Section:
         (a)   Housing accommodations which the United States or the
commonwealth or any authority created under the laws thereof either owns or
operates;
         (b)   Housing accommodations in any hospital, convent, monastery,
asylum, public institution or college or school dormitory operated exclusively
for charitable or educational purposes, or in any nursing or rest home for the
aged;
         (c)   Buildings containing fewer than four residential units, except
for buildings which are part of a housing development as defined herein;
         (d)   Housing accommodations in hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes
and rooming and boarding houses which are occupied by transient guests staying
for a period of fewer than 14 consecutive calendar days;
         (e)   Housing accommodations which are converted to a limited equity
housing cooperative organized and operated primarily for the benefit of low to
moderate income persons, and whose equity, after allowance for the maximum
transfer value of its stock, is dedicated through recorded deed restrictions to
providing housing to persons of low and moderate income for a period of no less
than 30 years; and
         (f)   Subsidized housing accommodations which are to be converted to a
condominium structure in order to enable the necessary financing to retain,
replace or augment the subsidized housing units.
      (2)   In addition, the following housing accommodations, while within the
definition contained in St. 1983, c. 527, as amended, shall only be subject to
the provisions or requirements contained in St. 1983, c. 527, as amended, to
the extent not exempted under division (1)(a) through (1)(e) above, and not to
the additional provisions or requirements contained in this Section:
         (a)   Housing accommodations constructed, or created by conversion
from a non-housing to a housing use, on or after November 30, 1983;
         (b)   Housing accommodations which were constructed or substantially
rehabilitated pursuant to any federal mortgage insurance program, without any
interest subsidy or tenant subsidy or tenant subsidy attached thereto; and
         (c)   Housing accommodations financed through the Massachusetts
Housing Finance Agency, with an interest subsidy attached thereto.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. As defined in Section 3 of Chapter 527 of the Acts of
1983, as amended by Section 5 of Chapter 709 of the Acts of 1989.
   HOUSING SERVICES. Services of facilities provided by a landlord or required
by law or by the terms of a rental housing agreement to be provided by a
landlord to a tenant in connection with the use and occupancy of any housing
accommodation, including, without limitation, services, furniture, furnishings
and equipment; repairs, decorating and maintenance; provision of light, heat,
hot water, cold water, telephone and elevator service; kitchen, bath and
laundry facilities and privileges; use of halls, corridors, stairs, common
rooms, yards and other common areas; maid service, linen service, janitorial
service, removal of refuse, parking facilities and any other benefit, privilege
or facility connected with the use or occupancy of any housing accommodation.
HOUSING SERVICES to a housing accommodation shall include a proportionate share
of the services provided to common facilities of the building in which the
housing accommodation is located.
   INTENT TO CONVERT. The intent to make the initial sale and transfer of title
to a residential unit in a housing accommodation as one or more condominium or
cooperative units pursuant to an individual unit deed or deeds or, in the case
of a cooperative, a proprietary lease or leases. Factors that indicate such an
INTENT TO CONVERT which shall be considered in determining whether a landlord
has the INTENT TO CONVERT are:
      (1)   A master deed or articles of organization for the housing
accommodation has been prepared or recorded;
      (2)   The landlord of the housing accommodation dwelling has prepared or
is in the process of preparing a purchase and sale agreement for the sale of
any unit as a condominium or cooperative unit;
      (3)   The landlord has advertised for sale any unit in the housing
accommodation as a condominium or cooperative unit;
      (4)   The landlord has shown to any prospective purchaser a unit in the
housing accommodation for the sale of such unit as a condominium or cooperative
unit;
      (5)   The landlord has made any communication, written or oral, to any
person residing in the housing accommodation expressly indicating an intent to
sell any unit as a condominium or cooperative unit;
      (6)   The landlord has had any unit in the housing accommodation measured
or inspected to facilitate the sale of the unit as a condominium or cooperative
unit;
      (7)   The landlord has had the land surveyed, an engineering study
performed or architectural plans prepared for the purpose of converting such
housing accommodation into one or more condominium or cooperative units;
      (8)   Retaining a real estate agent for the sale of the converted unit;
      (9)   Retaining an attorney for the purpose of pursuing a conversion; and
      (10)   The landlord has submitted documentation to the Boston
Redevelopment Authority as part of the development review process under the
city’s Zoning Code Article 80-B (large project review), Article 80-C (planned
development area review) or Article 80-E (small project review) identifying the
project as containing a condominium or cooperative use.
   INTEREST SUBSIDY. Any payment made by a federal or state government to
reduce the effective interest rate payable by a mortgagor.
   ISD. The City Inspectional Services Department.
   LANDLORD. The individual who holds title to any housing accommodation in any
manner, including, without limitation, a partnership, corporation or trust. For
purposes of this Section, the rights and duties of the LANDLORD hereunder shall
be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls or customarily accepts rent
on behalf of the LANDLORD.
   LOW OR MODERATE INCOME TENANT. A tenant or group of tenants, all of whom
occupy the same dwelling unit, whose total income for the 12 months immediately
preceding the date of the notice provided for hereunder is given or shown to
have been given, or the exercising of any right, whichever may occur later, is
not more than 80% of the area median income, adjusted for household size, as
published annually by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   THE OFFICE OF HOUSING STABILITY or “OHS”. The Office of Housing Stability, a
division within the Boston Department of Neighborhood Development charged with
a number of responsibilities that include, but are not limited to, helping
tenants and landlords understand their rights and responsibilities under
commonwealth and local landlord-tenant laws, and providing assistance to
support renter households who are at risk of displacement due to fires,
evictions and other physical, economic or health circumstances.
   RENT. The consideration, including without limitation, all bonuses,
benefits, gratuities or charges contingent or otherwise, demanded or received
for, or in connection with, the use or occupancy of a housing accommodation,
for housing services, or for the transfer of a lease of a housing
accommodation.
   RENTAL HOUSING AGREEMENT. An agreement, oral, written or implied, between a
landlord and a tenant for the use and occupancy of a housing accommodation and
for housing services.
   TENANT. A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sub-lessee or other person, entitled
under the terms of a rental housing agreement to the use and occupancy of any
housing accommodation.
   UNIT. As defined in Section 3 of Chapter 527 of the Acts of 1983, as amended
by Section 7 of Chapter 709 of the Acts of 1989.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; Ord. 1975 c. 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 1; Ord.
1979 cs. 29, 37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983
cs. 1, 9, 17, 23, 33; Ord. 1985 c. 11, §§ 5, 6; CBC 1985 10-2.1; Ord. 1987 c.
4; Ord. 1987 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1987 c. 12 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 9 §§ 2, 3, 4; Ord.
1988 c. 11 §§ 2, 3, 4; Ord. 1989 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1989 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 1993 c. 10
§ 1; Ord. 1994 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 1996 c. 1 §§ 1, 2, 3; Ord. 1996 c. 3, § 1; Ord.
1996 c. 9 § 2, 3; Ord. 1999 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 16 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 3 § 1)
10-2.2   Rent Equity Board.
   (A)   Composition. There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Rent
Equity Board, consisting of five residents of the city appointed by the Mayor,
including two tenants of rental housing units, who own no dwelling units; two
landlords, one of whom owns or manages at least 20 rental dwelling units in the
city, and one who owns or manages more than three, but less than 20 rental
dwelling units in the city; and one member representing the public interest,
who shall have no prior involvement in advocacy on behalf of tenants or
landlords, but shall represent a broad and unbiased public interest. The
Administrator, with the approval of the Mayor, may serve as a public member of
the Board. Members of the Board shall be appointed for a term expiring on the
first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at
which a Mayor is elected. To the extent possible the Board shall reasonably
reflect the racial composition of the city. The Administrator, if a member of
the Board, shall not serve as Chairperson of the Board. The Board shall elect
one of its members as Chairperson to serve in that capacity for a term of one
year. Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The Mayor
may remove any member of the Board in accordance with the provisions of
Subsection 5-5.13.
   (B)   Compensation. Each member of the Board shall receive compensation for
actual service in the amount of $15 per hour, or part thereof. The
Administrator shall not receive any additional compensation for duties
performed as a member of the Board, beyond the Administrator’s salary. Members
of the Board, other than the Administrator, are hereby classified as special
municipal employees for the purpose of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Board shall be responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this Section. The Board shall hire, with the approval of the
Mayor, the Administrator. The Board shall promulgate such policies, rules,
rulings and regulations, and shall issue such orders, as will further the
provisions of this Section. The Board shall, as provided in Subsections 10-2.4,
10-2.5 and 10-2.7, establish and adjust the maximum rent for housing
accommodations; shall, as provided in Subsection 10-2.6, adjust the rent for
decontrolled housing accommodations; shall, as provided in Subsection 10-2.9,
grant or deny certificates of eviction; shall, as provided in Subsection 10-
2.11, grant, deny or modify removal permits and shall bring such proceedings as
may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this Section or to enforce any
policy, rule, ruling, regulation or order promulgated or issued by the Board
pursuant to this Section. The Board may refer any appropriate matter to the
Assessing, Building, Fire or Housing Inspection Departments, or any other
appropriate Department, of the city, and may, at the request of any landlord,
render a binding advisory opinion as to the permissible impact of a proposed
capital improvement on the rents.
   (D)   Studies, information, investigations and Reports. The Board may make
such studies, conduct such hearings and investigations and obtain such
information as is deemed necessary in promulgating any regulation, rule or
order pursuant to this Section and any regulations or order promulgated
hereunder. For the foregoing purposes, a person may be summoned to attend and
testify, to produce documents and to prepare in a like manner as he or she may
be summoned to attend as a witness before a court and before the Boston City
Council under M.G.L. Chapter 233, Section 8. Any person who rents or offers for
rent or acts as broker or agent for the rental of any controlled housing
accommodation or decontrolled housing accommodation may be required to furnish
under oath any information required by the Board which relates specifically to
said housing accommodations, to provide records and other documents and to make
reports. Such persons shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and a
transcript shall be taken of all testimony and such person shall have the right
to examine said transcript at reasonable times and places. M.G.L. Chapter 233,
Section 10 shall apply. The Board shall recommend adoption of such amendments
as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Section.
   (E)   Determination of invalidity. In the event that any policy, rule,
ruling, regulation or order promulgated by the Board is held invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, the Board shall forthwith amend or revoke such
policy, rule, ruling regulation or order, and cease further enforcement
thereof, to the full extent required in order to conform to the principles and
reasoning set forth in the decision of such court, and such decision shall be
deemed binding upon the Board in connection with any and all pending matters.
   (F)   Recommendations. The Board shall confer with interested parties,
including, but not limited to, representatives of landlords, tenants and
community development corporations in order to develop written recommendations
to the Boston City Council and the Mayor for amendments to the Section which
will foster the preservation of housing accommodations constructed or developed
pursuant to Sections 202, 221(d)(3) and 236 of the National Housing Act, being
12 U.S.C. §§ 1708, 1715(d)(3) and 1724 et seq., as housing which will remain
affordable to the low-income tenants and moderate-income tenants presently
residing in such accommodations, including, but not limited to, incentives for
limited equity cooperative ownership by such tenants and appropriate
requirements for tenant financial contribution. The Board shall also study and
make recommendations on the need for any additional procedures regarding
evictions from housing which has mortgages which are financed by the
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency (“MHFA”). Such study shall include an
analysis of present and proposed MHFA hearing procedures. The Board shall
report all of its recommendations under this provision by June 30, 1989.
   (G)   Charges.
      (1)   The Board shall require every landlord of rent controlled or
vacancy decontrolled housing accommodations to pay an annual charge for
services provided by the Board under this Section. Such charge shall be for
such services as, without limitation, the Board’s cost of maintaining records
regarding the landlord’s housing accommodations; the Board’s calculations of
the landlord’s annual general adjustment of maximum rent; and the Board’s
developing, mailing and otherwise providing printed information and forms
regarding rent control, vacancy decontrol and other related matters. Such
charge shall be established by the Board by regulation on a fiscal or calendar
year basis and shall be charged per individual housing accommodation, whether
such housing accommodation is occupied or unoccupied. The Board may establish a
charge by subclass for such housing accommodations. Any such annual charge
established by the Board shall be reflective of the costs incurred by the Board
in providing services under this Section; provided, however, that in no event
shall such annual charge be less than $12 nor more than $36 per year per
individual housing accommodation. The annual charge shall be payable to the
city by the landlord, and the Board shall establish by regulation the time,
place and manner for such payment. The Board shall ensure that all charges
collected pursuant to this Section are deposited with the Collector-Treasurer.
After such payment has been made, the landlord may charge all or part of the
annual charge for each such housing accommodation to the tenants thereof. For
purposes of this Section, if the landlord so acts, said charge shall be rent,
as defined by Subsection 10-1.2.
      (2)   If a landlord has failed to pay such charge as required, all
petitions, applications or other like submissions filed with the Board by such
landlord requesting Board action shall be deemed defective and the
Administrator shall administratively dismiss such petition, application or
submission.
      (3)   A general adjustment of maximum rent for any class of rent
controlled housing accommodation shall not be applicable and an increase shall
not be authorized for such housing accommodation where the landlord fails to
pay the annual charge required herein for such housing accommodation.
Notwithstanding anything stated in this Section to the contrary, the
Administrator may allow a petition, application or other submission to go
forward, and may allow a general adjustment of maximum rent to be applicable
and a rent increase to be authorized, if a landlord who has not paid the charge
required herein shows, and the Administrator finds, good cause for such
nonpayment.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; Ord. 1975 c. 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 2; Ord.
1979 cs. 29, 37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983
cs. 1, 9, 17, 23, 33; Ord. 1984 cs. 7, 29-34; CBC 1985 10-2.2; Ord. 1988 c. 9 §
10[e]; Ord. 1988 c. 11 § 5; Ord. 1989 c. 1 § 2; Ord. 1989 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 1991
c. 2 § 1)
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1987 c. 6 § 6 is as follows:
    SECTION SIX. NOTICE. Within 60 days after the passage of this Section the
Rent Equity Board shall notify all residents of the City of the protections
provided by Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984 as amended. (See Subsection
10-2.10 and Subsection 10-2.12.)
   Ordinance 1987 c. 12 § 4 is as follows:
    SECTION FOUR. NOTICE. Within ten days after the passage of this Section,
the Rent Equity Board shall notify all residents of mobile home parks in the
city of the protections provided by this Section. (See Subsection 102.13.)
10-2.3   Registration.
   The Board may require registration of all controlled housing accommodations
on forms approved by the Administrator. Whoever fails to file in a timely
manner any statement or information required to be filed under this Section
shall, in addition to all other penalties pursuant to Subsection 10-2.17, be
subject to a fine of up to $50 per calendar day, or part thereof, that such
failure continues. No petition for an upward adjustment of maximum rent shall
be accepted by the Board until all statements and information required to be
filed pursuant to this Section have been filed, and all such petitions received
prior to such filing shall be dismissed by the Board.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 3; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9,17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.3) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
10-2.4   Maximum Rent.
   The maximum rent of a controlled housing accommodation shall be the rent
which was established under Chapter 842 of the Acts of 1970, and Section 13(a)
of Chapter 19 of the Ordinances of 1972, as amended as adjusted by the Board
pursuant to Chapter 15 of the Ordinances of 1975, as amended or Chapter 1 of
the Ordinances of 1983, as amended, whichever is applicable; provided, however,
the maximum rent for a rent controlled housing accommodation in a cooperative
shall be the rent charged as of May 1, 1982. If the maximum rent of a
controlled housing accommodation has not otherwise been established, it shall
be established by the Board. Any maximum rent for a controlled housing
accommodation shall be adjusted subsequently in accordance with the provisions
of Subsections 10-2.5 and 10-2.7. The maximum rent for a mobile home or a
mobile home lot shall be the rent charged as of September 1, 1995.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 4; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.4; Ord. 1996 c. 1 § 4; Ord. 1996 c. 9 § 4) Penalty, see
Subsection 10-2.17
10-2.5   Adjustment of Maximum Rent.
   (A)   General adjustments.
      (1)   Commencing in 1985, the Board shall annually adjust the maximum
rent established pursuant to Subsection 10-2.4 by percentage, for all
controlled housing accommodations which have not received an adjustment during
the prior calendar year and which are in compliance with Chapter II of the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 410. Each such maximum rent shall
be adjusted in an amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the
consumer price index during the prior calendar year, said adjustment to become
effective on June 1 of each year commencing on June 1, 1985.
      (2)   The Board may, by order or regulation as provided in Subsection 10-
2.7, make such other general adjustments, either upward or downward, in the
maximum rent established by Subsection 10-2.4 for all controlled housing
accommodations or any class thereof as may be necessary to remove hardships or
to correct other inequities, and in so doing, shall observe the principle of
maintaining maximum rents for controlled housing accommodations at levels which
will yield to landlords a fair net operating income from such housing
accommodations.
      (3)   The Board shall cause a notice of any such general adjustment of
maximum rents for controlled housing accommodations to be published three times
in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 30 days
prior to the effective date thereof and shall send to all landlords of
controlled housing accommodations a copy of said notice by first-class mail.
   (B)   Individual adjustments. The Board shall by order as provided in
Subsection 10-2.7, make such individual adjustments, either upward or downward,
of the maximum rents established by Subsection 10-2.4, or as adjusted pursuant
to division (A) above, for any controlled housing accommodation as may be
necessary to remove hardships or to correct other inequities, and in so doing,
shall observe the principle of maintaining maximum rents for controlled housing
accommodations which will yield to landlords a fair net operating income from
such housing accommodations.
   (C)   Fair net operating income. In determining whether the maximum rent for
a controlled housing accommodation yields a fair net operating income, the
Board shall consider, without limitation, the following relevant factors:
      (1)   Increases or decreases in property taxes;
      (2)   Unavoidable increases or any decreases in operating and maintenance
expenses;
      (3)   Capital improvement of the controlled housing accommodation;
      (4)   Increases or decreases in living space or housing services; and
      (5)   Substantial deterioration of the controlled housing accommodation,
other than ordinary wear and tear, or failure to perform ordinary repair,
replacement or maintenance.
   (D)   Rent adjustment schedule. For the purposes of adjusting rents under
the provisions of division (B) above, the Board may promulgate a schedule of
standard rental increases or decreases for improvement or deterioration of
specific housing services.
   (E)   Denial of adjustment. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
Subsection, the Board may deny or refuse to grant any upward adjustment of the
maximum rent for a controlled housing accommodation, if, upon petition of the
tenant, it determines that the affected controlled housing accommodation does
not comply with Chapter II of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR
410, or the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, or the Boston Fire
Prevention Code or any other applicable municipal code, ordinance or
commonwealth law, regulating the conditions or occupancy of housing
accommodations. The Board may refuse to make a downward adjustment of the
maximum rent for a controlled housing accommodation if it determines that the
tenant is more than 60 days in arrears in tendering rent for such housing
accommodation, unless such arrearage is due to a withholding of rent pursuant
to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 127L or Chapter 239, Section
8A. For the purposes of this division (E), an inspection report of a Board
inspector or of any authorized commonwealth or city inspector or investigator
shall be prima facie evidence that the conditions or lack of compliance
reported exists.
   (F)   Maximum rent levels. The Board may remove maximum rent levels
established pursuant to Subsections 10-2.4, 10-2.5 or 10-2.7, for any class of
controlled housing accommodations if, in its judgment, the need for continuing
such maximum rental levels no longer exists because of sufficient construction
of new housing accommodations, the rental levels for which are comparable to
the rental levels of the class of controlled housing accommodations for which
the maximum rental levels are to be discontinued or because the demand for
housing accommodations has otherwise been met. Any maximum rental level removed
pursuant to this division (F) shall be reimposed or adjusted and reimposed upon
a finding by the Board that a substantial shortage of housing accommodations
exist and that such reimposition is necessary to serve the public interest. Any
action under this division (F) shall be subject to the hearing and notice
requirements of Subsection 10-2.7(B).
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 5; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.5) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see § 11-5
10-2.6   Rent Grievances.
   (A)   All elderly, handicapped or low- or moderate-income tenants of
decontrolled housing accommodations may petition the Board on a form approved
by the Administrator for a downward adjustment of the rent for such a housing
accommodation if the landlord has increased the rent for said tenant’s housing
accommodation by percentage which is greater than the percentage increase in
the consumer price index for the 12 months immediately preceding the date of
said tenant’s petition. For the purpose of preventing rent gouging, all other
tenants of decontrolled housing may petition the Board on a form approved by
the Administrator for a downward adjustment of the rent for such housing
accommodation if the landlord has increased the rent for said tenant’s housing
accommodation by a percentage greater than 10% in any one year. The Board
shall, at least annually, take all reasonable steps to make such tenant aware
of the provisions of this Subsection and the rights and protections of all
tenants existing pursuant to this Section. The Administrator shall conduct a
hearing with respect to all such petitions filed and shall make a
recommendation to the Board. The Board shall not be bound by the
Administrator’s recommendation and shall evaluate independently the evidence as
presented to the Administrator. The Board shall act within a reasonable time
after receiving the Administrator’s recommendation; provided, however, such
action shall occur within 60 days after the Board’s receipt of a petition.
Until a decision has been made by the Board in favor of the tenant, the tenant
shall be obligated to tender such rent increase as lawfully required by the
landlord; provided, however, the Board shall order repayment. The Board may by
regulation modify the hearing procedure provided for in this Section to serve
the public interest.
   (B)   Any such petition shall be filed with the Board within 45 days after
the tenant’s receipt of the landlord’s notice of the rent increase; provided,
however, the Board may extend such period for filing if the tenant was unable
to file the petition due to illness, absence from the city or other good cause.
The Administrator shall notify the landlord upon receipt of a petition. Failure
on the part of the landlord to appear at a hearing, either in person or through
counsel, on a tenant’s petition pursuant to this Subsection shall result in an
automatic approval of said tenant’s petition.
   (C)   Within 45 days after the effective date of this Section, annually on
January 2, beginning in 1985, and as part of any notice of an increase in the
rent for any decontrolled housing accommodation, and upon a tenant’s initial
taking of occupancy in a unit of a housing accommodation, every tenant shall be
notified in writing of his or her right to file a rent grievance with the Board
pursuant to this Subsection. Such notice shall be in a form which has been
approved by the Administrator and shall contain information respecting the
conditions of eligibility and the procedure for such rent grievances. On or
before February 1 of each year, the landlord shall file with the Board an
affidavit, under penalty of perjury, that he or she has caused the notice to be
mailed on or about January 2 to each such tenant. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Subsection, no landlord shall receive more than one rent
adjustment in any 12-month period.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 6; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.6) Penalty, see Subsections 10-2.16, 10-2.17
10-2.7   Rent Adjustment Proceedings of Controlled Housing Accommodations.
   (A)   Individual adjustment of maximum rent. The Board shall consider an
adjustment of rent for an individual controlled housing accommodation upon
receipt of a petition for adjustment filed by the landlord or tenant of such
housing accommodation or upon its own initiative. Such petition shall be made
on a form approved by the Administrator. The Board shall notify the landlord
and tenant if the petition was filed by the tenant, or the tenant and landlord
if the petition was filed by the landlord, upon receipt of such petition of the
right of either party to request a hearing in writing within 15 calendar days
after the receipt of such notice, or the Board may schedule a hearing upon its
own initiative. If a hearing is requested in a timely manner by either party,
or if the action is undertaken upon the initiative of the Board, notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be furnished to the landlord and the tenant
and the hearing shall be conducted before a designee of the Board. The Board
may consolidate petitions and actions taken under its own initiative relating
to controlled housing accommodations in the same building or development, and
all such petitions and actions may be considered in a single hearing.
   (B)   General adjustment of maximum rent by regulation. Upon its own
initiative, the Board may make a general adjustment, in addition to those
required by Subsection 10-2.5(A), by percentage or otherwise, of the rental
levels for any class of controlled housing accommodations subject to such
conditions, if any, as the Board shall determine. Prior to making such
adjustments, a public hearing shall be held before at least a majority of the
Board. Notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing shall be published
three times in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the city, the
first such publication shall appear at least 30 calendar days prior to the
scheduled date of said hearing.
   (C)   Limitations on petitions for individual adjustment. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Subsection, the Board may, without holding a
hearing, refuse to adjust the maximum rent for an individual controlled housing
accommodation and may dismiss any petition for adjustment if a decision has
been made with respect to the maximum rent for such housing accommodation
within the preceding 12 months or if the Board finds that the petition for
adjustment is filed for the purposes of harassment or for any other purpose not
intended by this Section.
   (D)   Hearings required under division (A) above shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 11, except that
requirements (7) and (8) of said Section 11 shall not apply to such hearings.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 7; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.7)
10-2.8   Information to be Supplied in Connection with Tenant Petitions and
Board Initiated Actions for Adjustment—Controlled Housing Accommodations.
   Upon receipt by the Board of a tenant petition for adjustment of maximum
rent for a controlled housing accommodation, or upon action initiated by the
Board for adjustment of maximum rent for any such housing accommodation, the
landlord shall furnish to the Administrator, within 15 days after a written
demand thereof, an information statement in forms approved by the
Administrator. Whoever fails to file in a timely manner any information
required to be filed under this Subsection may, in addition to all other
penalties pursuant to Subsection 10-2.17, subject to a fine of up to $50 per
calendar day, or part thereof, that such failure continues.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 8; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.8) Penalty, see Subsections 10-2.16 and 10-2.17
10-2.9   Evictions; Controlled and Vacancy Decontrolled Housing Accommodations.
   (A)   No person shall bring any action to recover possession of a controlled
or vacancy decontrolled housing accommodation unless:
      (1)   The tenant has failed to pay the rent to which the landlord is
legally entitled;
      (2)   The tenant has violated an obligation or covenant of tenancy other
than the obligation to surrender possession upon proper notice and has failed
to cure such violation after having received written notice thereof from the
landlord;
      (3)   The tenant is committing or permitting to exist a nuisance in, or
is causing substantial damage to, the housing accommodation, or is creating
substantial interference with the comfort, safety or enjoyment of the landlord
or other occupants of the same or any adjacent housing accommodation;
      (4)   The tenant is convicted of using or permitting a housing
accommodation to be used for any illegal purpose;
      (5)   The tenant, who had a written rental housing agreement which
terminated on or after the passage of this Section has refused, after written
request or demand by the landlord, to execute a written extension or renewal
thereof for a further term of like duration and in such terms as are not
inconsistent with or violative of any provisions of this Section;
      (6)   The tenant has refused the landlord reasonable access to the
housing accommodation for the purpose of making necessary repairs or
improvements required by the laws of the United States, the commonwealth or any
subdivision thereof, or for the purpose of inspection as permitted or required
by the lease or by law, or for the purpose of showing the housing accommodation
to any prospective purchaser or mortgagee;
      (7)   The tenant holding at the end of a lease term is a subtenant not
approved by the landlord;
      (8)   (a)   The landlord seeks to recover possession in good faith for
the use and occupancy of himself or herself, or his or her children, parents,
brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law:
            1.   Which is occupied by a tenant entitled to protections under
paragraph k. of Subsection 10-2.10; or
            2.   For which a master deed was or articles of organization were
duly recorded after December 28, 2011, pursuant to M.G.L. Chapters 183A, 156B,
157 or 157B.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, including,
but not limited to, division (A)(8)(a) above and paragraph k. of Subsection 10-
2.10, the Board shall issue a certificate of eviction to the owner of a
condominium or cooperative housing accommodation who has satisfied the Board
that the following requirements have been met:
            1.   The owner legally occupied the housing accommodation
continuously for at least one year as his or her principal residence after
conversion or removal;
            2.   The owner subsequently rented the housing accommodation to a
tenant; and
            3.   All the legal owners demonstrate that they, in good faith,
intend to reside in the housing accommodation as their principal residence.
      (9)   The landlord seeks to recover possession to demolish the same in
compliance with a lawful government order;
      (10)   Recovery of possession in order to remove a controlled or
decontrolled housing accommodation shall not be a valid reason to recover
possession of a housing accommodation occupied by a tenant protected by
Subsection 10-2.10 or of any controlled or decontrolled housing accommodation
for which a master deed was or articles of organization were duly recorded
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapters 183A, 156B, 157 or 157B; and
      (11)   The landlord seeks to recover possession for any other just cause;
provided that his or her purpose is not in conflict with the provisions and
purposes of this Section.
   (B)   The landlord of any controlled or vacancy decontrolled housing
accommodation or other property subject to this Subsection shall include the
full text of division (A) above on all leases entered after [date of
enactment].
   (C)   Failure to comply with this Subsection shall be an affirmative defense
to any action to recover possession of a controlled or vacancy decontrolled
housing accommodation.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 9; Ord. 1979 cs. 29, 37;
Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17, 23,
33; CBC 1985 10-2.9; Ord. 1987 c. 6 § 3; Ord. 1988 c. 9 §§ [A], [B], [C], [D],
[E]; Ord. 2011 c. 17) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
10-2.9A   Rights of Elderly and Handicapped Tenants to Have Pets.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any lease or rental agreement to the
contrary, no owner of a controlled or decontrolled housing accommodation
subject to the jurisdiction of the Board may, as a condition of tenancy or
otherwise, prohibit or prevent any elderly or handicapped tenant from owning
common household pets or having such pets living in the tenant’s unit.
Furthermore, no owner of a controlled or decontrolled housing accommodation
shall have the right to restrict or discriminate against any elderly or
handicapped tenant in connection with admission to, or continued occupancy of,
such housing by reason of the tenant’s ownership of common household pets or
the presence of such pets in that tenant’s unit. The owner of such housing
accommodations shall have the right to promulgate reasonable requirements
regarding the number of common household pets allowed in each unit, standards
of pet care, licensing, inoculation and leash laws, similar to those developed
by the commonwealth’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and
consistent with commonwealth and local laws on animal control, such as M.G.L.
Chapter 140, Sections 136A—174F. Nothing in this provision shall bar the owner
from requiring the removal of any pet if the pet’s conduct or condition is
determined to constitute a nuisance or a threat to the health or safety of
other occupants of the building, structure or development of other persons in
the community where the housing accommodation is located.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the exemptions found in Subsection 10-2.1, the
definition of “housing accommodation”, all housing accommodations in mobile
homes, in mobile home parks and in structures having three or more dwellings,
excluding motels, hotels or inns, and excluding housing accommodations in
structures having three dwelling units, one of which is occupied by all the
legal and beneficial owners of the structure as their principal residence,
shall be subject to the provisions of this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 10-2.9A; Ord. 1988 c. 13 §§ 1, 2) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
10-2.10   Condominium and Cooperative Conversion.
   (A)   Requirements for conversion. No person shall convert a housing
accommodation, or engage in a condominium or cooperative conversion eviction,
or sell a unit for immediate occupancy by the purchasing landlord until they
have:
      (1)   Provided notice of conversion to tenants as required by this
Section;
      (2)   Filed a Conversion Plan with OHS;
      (3)   Provided benefits to tenants as required by this Section and set
forth in conversion plan; and
      (4)   Obtained a conversion permit from ISD pursuant to this Section.
   (B)   Required notice.
      (1)   A landlord who has an intent to convert any housing accommodation
shall give written notice of intent to convert to each tenant then residing in
a unit in such housing accommodation. The notice shall be provided using a
model notice form created by the OHS and made available on the internet. A copy
of the notice provided to each tenant shall be filed with the OHS promptly
after it is delivered to a tenant. The notice delivered to a tenant shall be
translated into the tenant’s primary language, if a need for such translation
has been identified or is otherwise apparent to a reasonable person. The notice
shall be deemed given on the date when the notice is delivered in person to the
tenant or the date on which the notice is received by the tenant after being
sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or the date of
service by a deputy sheriff or constable.
      (2)   Notice of the intent to convert shall be given to the tenant at
least one year before the landlord will seek to have the tenant vacate the unit
in the housing accommodation. However, where a unit in a housing accommodation
is occupied by an elderly, disabled or low or moderate income tenant, notice of
intent to convert shall be given to the tenant at least five years before the
landlord will seek to have the tenant vacate the unit in the housing
accommodation.
         (a)   Except where a tenant has previously been determined to be
elderly, disabled or low or moderate income under prior rent control or
condominium conversion laws, the burden of proving that a tenant is elderly,
disabled or low or moderate income shall, if contested, rest with the tenant.
The landlord shall be entitled to provide the tenant with a written request to
disclose whether the tenant claims to be elderly, disabled or low to moderate
income. In the event the tenant confirms in writing that they do not claim that
they are elderly, disabled or low or moderate income, then there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that the tenant is not elderly, disabled or low or
moderate income, which presumption shall only be overcome by clear and
convincing evidence to the contrary. Any tenant may request that the OHS assist
the tenant in establishing eligibility for extended protections on account of
age, disability or status as a low or moderate income household, and the OHS’s
determination of whether a tenant qualifies will be incorporated into its
approval of a conversion plan as provided below.
      (3)   The notice shall state the following in clear and conspicuous
language.
         (a)   The landlord intends to convert his or her housing accommodation
into a condominium or cooperative unit.
         (b)   The tenant shall have one year from the date the notice is
given, or until the end of the lease term, whichever is greater, before the
tenant shall be required to vacate the housing accommodation, except that any
elderly, disabled or low or moderate income tenant shall have five years from
the date the notice is given before such tenant shall be required to vacate the
housing accommodation.
         (c)   Except as set forth below, the tenant shall be offered the
opportunity to purchase the unit on terms and conditions which are
substantially the same as or more favorable than those which the landlord will
offer the unit for sale to the public.
         (d)   The landlord will have to apply for and have a Conversion Plan
approved by the OHS, and will be required to apply for and received a
condominium conversion permit before a housing accommodation may be sold.
         (e)   If at any point, including at the end of the applicable notice
period, a tenant or a landlord believes that the other has not complied with
their obligations under this Section, the tenant or landlord may request a
hearing before the OHS or ISD, whichever is applicable.
         (f)   If the tenant does not purchase the tenant’s unit or another
unit in the housing accommodation, the tenant has a right to relocation
benefits of $10,000 or $15,000, depending on their eligibility status.
         (g)   The landlord is obligated to assist any elderly, disabled and
low or moderate income tenants in finding comparable housing.
         (h)   The tenant is entitled to an extension of the tenant’s rental
agreement to coincide with the period of notice.
         (i)   The tenant is entitled to freedom from unreasonable disruption
and breach of quiet enjoyment as a result of rehabilitation, repairs or
improvements made by the landlord during the period of notice.
         (j)   The date the notice is deemed “given” is the date on which the
notice is delivered in person to the tenant or the date on which the notice is
received by the tenant after being sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, or the date of service by a deputy sheriff or constable.
   (C)   Rights of tenants.
      (1)   Extension of rental housing agreement; limitations on rent
increases during notice period. For any tenant whose current rental housing
agreement expires before the end of the one- or five-year notice period to
which they are entitled under this Section, the landlord shall extend the
tenant’s rental housing agreement for the entire length of the required notice
period. The provisions of such extended rental housing agreement may not be
modified from the existing terms, except that the amount of annual rent may be
increased by 10%, or the percentage increase in the consumer price index during
the calendar year immediately preceding the date upon which such rental housing
agreement is extended, whichever is less.
      (2)   Relocation benefit.
         (a)   Any tenant who receives or is entitled to receive a notice
pursuant to this Subsection, who chooses not to exercise the right to purchase
the unit he or she occupies pursuant to division (F) below or who does not
purchase another unit or units in the same building or buildings, or in the
instance where there is a demolition and new construction, in the newly
constructed building, shall, upon vacating said unit within the appropriate
notice period as established by division (A) above, be paid by the landlord a
relocation expense allowance of $10,000 per housing accommodation; provided,
however, that if such housing accommodation is occupied in whole or in part by
a disabled, elderly or low or moderate income tenant, the relocation expense
allowance shall be $15,000. Such relocation benefits shall be payable within
ten days after the date on which the tenant vacates the housing accommodation
occupied by him or her; provided, in recognition of the fact that many
relocation costs must be paid in whole or in part before a tenant actually
moves out, the landlord may upon request of the tenant make payments up to the
amount authorized by this Section directly to a moving company, realtor,
storage facility or successor landlord (upon receipt of a signed lease, tenancy
at will agreement or letter signed by the prospective landlord indicating that
they have agreed to rent a particular unit to the tenant as of a date certain
with a copy of proof of ownership), or to a utility company or housing voucher
administrator in order to satisfy exists arrearages, prior to the date on which
they vacate the premises. However, no tenant shall be eligible for such
relocation benefits unless all rent due and payable for said unit under the
rental agreement or extension of such agreement, if any, has been paid by the
tenant prior to the date on which the housing accommodation is vacated and only
as long as the tenant voluntarily vacates the housing accommodation on or
before the expiration of the notice period. Should the tenant be in arrears but
the relocation expense allowance exceeds the amount of the arrearage, the
landlord shall pay the tenant the balance remaining after the arrearage is
deducted within such ten-day period. A tenant shall be permitted to vacate the
housing accommodation upon 30 days’ notice without penalty regardless of the
status of their rental agreement during the notice period and this shall not
affect their entitlement to the relocation expense allowance. The landlord
shall file an affidavit of compliance with the OHS within 30 days of making any
relocation payment under this division (C)(2)(a), detailing the name and
address of the tenant, the amount of payment and the method of payment.
         (b)   In the event an elderly, disabled or low or moderate income
tenant is seeking public or subsidized housing and requires a judgment for
possession to be issued in order to obtain emergency status or other
preference/priority necessary to access such housing or housing subsidy program
on an expedited basis, such tenant shall continue to be entitled to the
relocation benefit whether or not the tenant has vacated by the end of the
notice period, so long as the tenant vacated the unit within 90 days of the
judgment or such longer period as agreed upon by the parties or established by
the court.
      (3)   Assistance in securing comparable housing for elderly, disabled and
low or moderate income tenants. Where an elderly, disabled or low to moderate
income tenant has received or is entitled to receive a notice pursuant to this
Subsection, the landlord shall assist the tenant to locate accessible,
appropriately sized, comparable rental housing within the city and, if
requested by the tenant, within the same neighborhood of the city where the
tenant resides, for a rent which is equal to or less than the rent which such
tenant had been paying for the housing accommodation at the time of receipt of
the notice. The OHS shall assist landlords and tenants in identifying
accessible, appropriately sized, comparable rental housing.
      (4)   Right to purchase unit.
         (a)   1.   Any tenant entitled to receive a notice of conversion shall
be given the right to purchase the housing accommodation they occupy or
occupied. The landlord shall extend this offer to purchase no later than six
months before the end of the notice period. The tenant shall have up to 120
days after receiving the offer to sign a purchase and sale agreement for the
housing accommodation. This offer shall be on terms and conditions which are
substantially the same as, or more favorable than, those which the landlord
extends to the public generally, or to a third party, whichever is less. Upon
delivering notice to the tenant of the right to purchase, such notice shall
include information sufficient for the tenant to be able to make a reasonable
assessment of the purchase, including, but not limited to, the price of the
unit, anticipated condominium fees and expected renovations of the unit. The
time periods herein provided may be extended by agreement between the tenant
and the landlord.
            2.   If, after the initial offer period has lapsed and during the
notice period, the landlord accepts any offer from a third party for less than
the price offered to the tenant, the tenant shall have the right to purchase
the housing accommodation at such lower price. The tenant shall have 30 days to
sign a purchase and sale agreement at such price.
         (b)   Exception to right to purchase. If the landlord has an intent to
convert a housing accommodation to a condominium or cooperative form of
ownership and the landlord is transferring the housing accommodation as part of
a conversion to a relative within the fourth degree of kindred, there shall be
no tenant right to purchase, and the notice of tenant rights may omit this with
ISD approval. All other tenant protections shall continue to apply.
         (c)   Reduction in the number of accommodations. If through the
renovation of the housing accommodations associated with conversion, there is a
reduction in the number of units, the tenant shall have a right to purchase a
unit in the housing accommodations, under the same terms and conditions as
outlined above. If more tenants wish to purchase than there are units
available, or there are multiple tenants seeking the same unit, the OHS, or its
designee, shall hold a lottery to determine who is able to purchase. OHS may
ask the landlord to provide mitigation to avoid hardship for residents due to
the reduction of the number of units.
         (d)   Demolition. If the condominium or cooperative is to be created
by the demolition of the housing accommodations and construction of a new
building or structure, tenants have the right to purchase a unit in the new
housing accommodations, under the same terms and conditions as outlined above.
This right extends to any income restricted units within the housing
accommodations, if the tenant is otherwise eligible for such units. If there
are insufficient units to accommodate all the tenants seeking to purchase, or
there are multiple tenants seeking the same unit, the OHS, or its designee,
shall hold a lottery to determine who is able to purchase. The OHS may ask the
landlord to provide mitigation to avoid hardship for residents due to the
demolition of units.
   (D)   Conversion permit required to convert.
      (1)   No person shall convert a housing accommodation without a
conversion permit, or engage in a condominium or cooperative conversion
eviction, or sell a unit for immediate occupancy by the purchasing landlord
until they have obtained a conversion permit from ISD pursuant to this Section.
      (2)   The conversion permit process shall take place in two steps. First,
the landlord shall apply to the OHS to create a conversion plan. Upon
fulfilling the requirements established by the OHS, the landlord may apply to
ISD for the conversion permit.
      (3)   The OHS shall have the power to establish the provisions of the
conversion plan consistent with this Section, and shall be responsible for
developing administrative forms, establishing reasonable application fees,
conducting hearings and approving or waiving conversion plans.
      (4)   ISD shall be responsible for promulgating such rules, policies and
procedures as it may deem advisable in establishing and maintaining a
conversion permit process. ISD shall be responsible for developing
administrative forms, setting reasonable application fees, conducting hearings
and granting or denying conversion permits. ISD may deny a building or
occupancy permit for a proposed condominium or cooperative unit on the grounds
that such project failed to obtain a conversion permit under this Section.
      (5)   Any landlord who has an intent to convert a housing accommodation
to a condominium or cooperative form of ownership shall provide notice of
intent to convert to the OHS and the tenant as required in this Section. In
addition, the landlord shall, within one month of service of said notice, apply
to the OHS for a conversion plan and submit all required documentation.
         (a)   Housing accommodations with occupied units. If a landlord has an
intent to convert an occupied housing accommodation to the condominium or
cooperative form of ownership, the landlord shall apply to the OHS for a
conversion plan at least one year prior to any condominium or cooperative
conversion eviction.
         (b)   Vacant housing accommodations. If the landlord has an intent to
convert an unoccupied housing accommodation to the condominium or cooperative
form of ownership, the landlord may apply to the OHS for a conversion plan at
any time prior to the conversion of the housing accommodations, and shall
provide to the best of their ability all information required by the OHS to
determine that no tenant who occupied the housing accommodations in the 12
months immediately preceding the date of the application to the OHS was denied
any of the protections or benefits of this Section.
      (6)   In addition to any documentation required by the OHS, a landlord
applying for a conversion plan shall submit with the application a complete
list of names and contact information of:
         (a)   Current tenants;
         (b)   Former tenants who vacated during the previous 12 months, if
known or reasonably discoverable in the exercise of due diligence;
         (c)   Any tenant who was evicted during the previous 12 months along
with a copy of the summons and complaint and court disposition; and
         (d)   Any tenants who received a notice to quit and/or a notice of
rent increase during the previous 12 months, with a copy of the notice to quit
and/or the notice of rent increase.
      (7)   The OHS will contact each tenant and assess the eligibility of
tenants for any benefits under this Section. Upon determination of the rights
and responsibilities for each tenant, the OHS shall, in conjunction with the
landlord, draft a conversion plan. Such conditional conversion permit shall
indicate if any units are occupied and the expiration date of any applicable
notice period for each unit.
      (8)   After reviewing relevant documentation and evidence, the OHS will
render a determination regarding whether the actions taken by the landlord (and
any predecessors in interest) thus far comply with this Section. If the OHS
determines that the landlord (and any predecessors in interest) have complied
with obligations under the ordinance and have established a conversion plan,
the OHS shall approve the conversion plan.
      (9)   For vacant units, if, after reviewing relevant documentation and
evidence, the OHS determines that the actions taken by the landlord (and any
predecessors in interest) complied with obligations under the ordinance, the
OHS may waive the conversion plan requirement, and the landlord may then
proceed to apply to ISD for a conversion permit.
      (10)   In the event that the tenant has relinquished their right to
purchase the unit, a landlord who has received a conversion plan may sell the
unit to any other purchaser prior to issuance of a conversion permit only under
the condition that the new landlord takes the unit subject to the tenant’s
rights under the ordinance including, but not limited to, the right to remain
in their unit for the remainder of any notice period, payment of relocation
expenses and the duty to assist in finding comparable housing. In order to
effectuate such a sale, the landlord must provide to the OHS and the tenant a
sworn document signed by the then current and future landlords stating that the
purchaser stands in the shoes of the prior landlord and that they must fully
comply with all obligations of the landlord under this Section.
      (11)   If at any point, including at the end of the applicable notice
period, a tenant or a landlord believes that the other has not complied with
their obligations under this Section, he or she may request a hearing before
the OHS or ISD, whichever is applicable. The tenant, the landlord and all other
housing accommodation tenants also undergoing conversion shall be notified of
the date and time at least two weeks prior to the hearing date. The tenant and
landlord shall have a right to attend any such hearings and to present evidence
as to whether the landlord has or has not met the requirements of this Section.
      (12)   (a)   Given that individual units within housing accommodations
may have different notification periods and/or may be vacant, ISD will issue
conversion permits for individual units within the housing accommodations. A
landlord who has received a conversion plan may request that ISD issue a
conversion permit on a form provided by the ISD no sooner than the earlier of:
            1.   The expiration of the notice period;
            2.   When the tenant vacates the premises; or
            3.   When the tenant purchases the unit.
         (b)   A landlord of a unit that was vacant at the time the notice of
intent to convert was provided to ISD may request a conversion permit on a form
provided by ISD at any time that they have completed all requirements imposed
by the OHS.
      (13)   After a request by the landlord for a conversion permit, a
conversion permit shall be granted where all documents required by ISD have
been submitted and ISD has made a determination that the requirements of this
Section have been met, that the OHS has certified that all requirements imposed
by the conversion plan for the relevant unit has been met, and there does not
appear to be any unlawful displacement.
      (14)   Notwithstanding the above, the OHS or ISD may deny a conversion
plan or a conversion permit where documentation is incomplete in any material
respect. The OHS or ISD may also impose reasonable conditions on the granting
of a conversion plan or conversion permit. ISD may deny a permit where it has
made a determination that any document or statement is false in any material
respect. In addition, ISD, in its discretion, may deny a permit if the OHS
finds that the landlord has taken any action to circumvent the commonwealth or
local condominium law, including, but not limited to, unreasonable rent
increases, reduction or elimination of services, termination of tenancy without
cause or the imposition of new conditions of the tenancy. ISD may revoke a
permit previously granted where it makes a determination that any document or
statement was false in any material respect at the time of ISD’s decision to
grant the permit. The OHS and ISD shall have the power to require the
submission of additional documentation, including without limitation purchase
and sale agreements, deeds, agreements with real estate brokers and/or
cancelled checks, if in ISD’s reasonable judgment such documentation is
necessary to ensure the fairness of its determinations. ISD may, in its
discretion, continue a hearing. A decision on a conditional conversion permit
shall be rendered by ISD within 60 days of the close of the hearing.
      (15)   A conversion permit shall lapse and the landlord shall reapply for
a new permit in the case of any of the following:
         (a)   The landlord failed to file a master deed within one year after
the date on which the conversion permit has been granted;
         (b)   The unit for which a conversion permit has been granted has not
been sold to a bona fide purchaser within two years after the date of the
granting of said conversion permit; or
         (c)   The master deed or articles of organization have been rescinded
and the housing accommodations no longer are condominiums or cooperatives.
      (16)   A conversion plan and a conversion permit may be sought by a
person who solely intends to convert a property to the condominium or
cooperative form of ownership and to market condominium or cooperative units
but does not have any plan for current tenants to be displaced. In such case,
the conversion plan and the subsequent conversion permit shall be so limited,
and the tenants shall be given the right of first purchase, as described
herein, but shall not be given notices of intent to terminate tenancy or
relocation benefits as described herein. The tenants and OHS shall have the
right to enforce such conditions if the person or any successor in interests
acts in a manner inconsistent with the limitations on the permit or engages in
conduct which would otherwise be barred by this Section. In addition, if a
person obtains a permit without such limitations, but a successor in interest
no longer wishes to displace the tenant (for example, an investor landlord
intends to maintain tenants, and only realize sales to owner-occupants upon
normal turnover of the unit), it shall notify ISD and the OHS of this in
writing, and ISD shall then modify the conversion permit to a limited
conversion permit. If at any subsequent date a person with a limited conversion
permit wishes to displace a tenant in place at the time of conversion in order
to facilitate the sale or owner occupancy of a unit, the person must seek and
obtain a full conversion permit in accordance with this Section.
   (E)   Renting units during conversion. If a tenant who is entitled to
receive the notice of intent to convert vacates such tenant’s unit either
before the initial sale and transfer of title to the residential unit as a
condominium or cooperative unit has occurred, and/or after the landlord has
otherwise already obtained a conversion permit for a unit which has not
expired, then the landlord shall give each prospective tenant of the unit
written notice, prior to the inception of a tenancy, which informs such
prospective tenant that the unit is being or will be offered for sale as a
condominium or proprietary lease as a cooperative, but such prospective tenants
shall not be entitled to the protections of this Section, except that they
shall be entitled to the benefits of their rental agreement.
   (F)   Limitation on recovery of possession for condominium and cooperative
conversion eviction.
      (1)   No person shall bring any action to recover possession of a housing
accommodation for the purpose of a condominium or cooperative conversion
eviction in any building or structure converted to a condominium or cooperative
form of ownership until they have been granted a conversion permit, and until
the one- or five-year notice period required by this Section has elapsed.
      (2)   Except as otherwise authorized in this Section, any action to
recover possession of a housing accommodation or to increase the rent of a
tenant in a housing accommodation who was in occupancy at the time of
conversion of the housing accommodation to the condominium or cooperative form
of ownership, or at the time of initial sale of the unit as an individual
condominium or cooperative unit, shall be presumed to be a condominium or
cooperative conversion eviction where any one or more of the following has
occurred:
         (a)   Any dwelling unit in any building or structure in which the
housing accommodation is located has been sold as a condominium or cooperative
unit;
         (b)   A master deed or articles of organization for the building or
structure in which the housing accommodation is located has been duly recorded
pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 156B, 157, 157B or 183A;
         (c)   A master deed or articles of organization for the building or
structure in which the housing accommodation is located is duly recorded
pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapters 156B, 157, 157B or 183A, or the
landlord gives notice of conversion or planned conversion under Subsection 10-
2.13A, within 12 months after an action is brought to recover such possession
or action is taken to increase the tenant’s rent;
         (d)   Any tenant of any unit of housing accommodation in the building
or structure wherein the unit or housing accommodation is located has received
any notice required by division (A) above; or
         (e)   In any unit converted to a condominium or cooperative, the
landlord has increased or is seeking to increase the tenant’s rent beyond the
increases authorized by division (A) above, unless the landlord shows that his
or her intent is not to facilitate the sale or transfer of the housing
accommodation to a prospective purchaser.
      (3)   An eviction shall be presumed to be a condominium or cooperative
conversion eviction if the landlord has the intent to convert, as defined
herein.
      (4)   A landlord may seek to recover possession of a housing
accommodation which has already been converted to the condominium or
cooperative form of ownership for just cause other than a condominium or
cooperative conversion eviction. The landlord must allege such just cause as
part of the notice of termination of tenancy given to the tenant and as part of
the summary process summons and complaint. The landlord shall give notice of
the commencement of such summary process action to the OHS at the same time the
action is entered in court, together with a copy of the notice of termination
of tenancy and summary process complaint. The landlord must prove such “just
cause” and rebut the presumption of condominium or cooperative conversion as
part of his or her burden of recovering possession. The provisions of this
Subsection shall apply only where the tenant was in occupancy at the time of
conversion of the housing accommodation to the condominium or cooperative form
of ownership.
   (G)   Penalties for violation. Any person who violates a provision of this
Section, which is promulgated pursuant to St. 1983, c. 527, shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $300 and, if applicable, by seeking to restrain a
violation of this Section by injunction. Each violation, per day, of any
provision shall constitute a separate offense. Each unit converted in violation
of this act constitutes a separate offense. Fines may be issued pursuant to the
noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, and may also
be enforced according to M.G.L. Chapter 40U.
   (H)   Annual Reporting. ISD shall submit an annual report to the Boston City
Council which provides comprehensive data and other documentation on the
conversion of housing accommodations to condominiums and cooperatives in the
city and the implementation of this Section.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 10; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; Ord. 1985 c. 11 § 2; CBC 1985 10-2.10; Ord. 1986 c. 20 §§ 2, 3, 4, 5;
Ord. 1987 c. 6 § 1 [K]; Ord. 1988 c. 9 § 7 [M]; Ord. 1996 c. 3 § 2; Ord. 1999
c. 8 § 2; Ord. 2004 c. 12 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 16 § 2; Ord. 2021 c. 3 § 2)
Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
10-2.11   Removal of Housing Accommodations Regulated.
   (A)   Terms defined. All terms used herein shall have the meanings defined
in Section 1 of Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984, as amended, except that
as used herein, the term HOUSING ACCOMMODATION as contained in Subsection 10-
2.1 shall not include: “mobile homes, trailers or trailer or mobile lots or
lodging, room or boarding house units”.
   (B)   Removal of housing accommodations regulated. Except as provided in
this Subsection, it shall be unlawful for any owner or other person to remove
any housing accommodation unless the Board, after hearing, grants a removal
permit. The Board may issue such orders and promulgate such regulations as are
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Subsection, and prescribe,
consistent with this Subsection, the procedure for applications, notice,
hearings and the grant and review of removal permits. Provided, however that
the requirements of this Subsection shall not apply to any building or
structure containing no more than two dwelling units or containing no more than
three dwelling units, one of which is occupied by the owner thereof as his or
her permanent residence consistent with the requirements of Subsection 10-2.1
under the definition of “housing accommodation”.
   (C)   Eviction. Eviction of tenants from controlled or decontrolled housing
accommodations is governed by Subsection 10-2.9 as modified by Subsections 10-
2.10 and 10-2.11. Issuance of a removal permit does not relieve any person of
compliance with the eviction procedures contained in this Section.
   (D)   Exceptions. Except as otherwise required by this Section including,
but not limited to, the requirements contained in Subsection 10-2.12 relating
to lodging and rooming houses, no removal permit shall be required for the
removal of any housing accommodation for which, on or before May 4, 1988, a
master condominium deed or articles of organization for the building in which
the housing accommodation is located has been duly recorded pursuant to the
provisions of M.G.L. Chapters 183A, 156B, 157 or 157B. Such recording shall be
prima facie evidence of this exception notwithstanding any error or omission in
regard thereto, and the Board shall have no authority to issue, and shall not
issue, any certificate with regard to this exception: sale or transfer after
removal. Once a removal permit has been issued, no additional removal permit is
required for subsequent transfers of ownership; provided, however, that all
subsequent owners shall be subject to the terms of this Section and to the
effective terms and conditions of any previously issued removal permit.
   (E)   Removal procedure.
      (1)   Generally. A separate removal permit shall be issued for each
qualifying housing accommodation. Copies thereof shall be kept on file at the
Board and certified copies shall be available upon payment of a reasonable fee.
      (2)   Criteria. In reviewing an application for a removal permit the
Board shall consider relevant factors including, without limitation, the
aggravation of the shortage of safe, decent and affordable housing
accommodations in the city and its neighborhoods which may result from the
removal, especially for tenants of low and moderate income, and handicapped or
elderly tenants. In making such determination the Board shall review and make
findings as to all relevant factors including, without limitation, the
following:
         (a)   The benefits and detriments to the persons whom this Section and
this Subsection seek to protect;
         (b)   The hardships imposed on the tenant(s) residing in the housing
accommodation proposed to be removed;
         (c)   Circumstances demonstrating hardship and inequity to the
applicant seeking a removal permit;
         (d)   The rate of vacancy in the city at the time the applicant
applies for a removal permit; and
         (e)   Substantiated evidence demonstrating the occurrence at the site
of the housing accommodation of arson or a suspicious fire, as defined in
Subsection 10-2.15.
      (3)   Mandatory granting of removal permit.
         (a)   The Board shall grant a removal permit where the applicant
demonstrates to the Board by sufficient evidence:
            1.   That the applicant is in compliance with all the requirements
of this Section; and
            2.   That tenants who occupy a majority of all of the units in a
building or project and who have resided in the building or project for one
year or longer prior to the filing of the removal permit application:
               a.   Have unequivocably agreed to purchase such building and
convert it to a limited equity cooperative pursuant to M.G.L. Chapters 156B,
157 and 157B; or
               b.   Have unequivocably agreed to purchase their rental units
when they are converted to a condominium or cooperative unit and have
represented that a they are intending in good faith to occupy such units as
their principal and permanent residences.
         (b)   For purposes of determining a “majority” under division (E)(3)
(a) above, all occupied units in a building or project shall be included and
voting shall be done by rental unit with all of the tenants residing in a
rental unit treated as a single tenant. All units in a building or project
shall be offered for sale to the residing tenants at the same time, at the same
or comparable price.
      (4)   Conditions to be imposed on removal permits. The Board shall impose
the following conditions, if applicable, when it grants a removal permit.
Nothing in this Section shall restrict an owner from conveying his or her
interest in any building or property or portion thereof; provided that the
property shall remain subject to the provisions of this Section and to the
conditions and terms of the last issued removal permit. Once issued, a removal
permit shall not be revoked; however, the Board may subsequently modify the
terms of a removal permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in
divisions (E)(5)(a) through (E)(5)(c) below, and may take such action as is
necessary to enforce the terms of the removal permit, as provided in division
(F) below.
         (a)   Right of first refusal to purchase. 
            1.   Any tenant who lives in a housing accommodation for which a
removal permit has been granted shall, within 60 days of the date of the grant
of the permit or such other time period as shall be established by the Board,
be given the right of first refusal to purchase the housing accommodation he/
she occupies for substantially the same or more favorable terms and conditions
as are being or would be offered to prospective arms length purchasers.
            2.   Such tenant may exercise a right of first refusal to purchase
such housing accommodation by executing a purchase and sales agreement prior to
the expiration of 90 days after the date of receiving a copy of the purchase
and sales agreement properly executed by the person offering the housing
accommodation for sale. Each time the housing is subsequently offered for sale,
the tenant then occupying the housing accommodation shall be offered the right
of first refusal to purchase as described above in this Section.
         (b)   Code compliance. At the time that a removal permit is granted
the building must be in, and thereafter, remain in, full compliance with
Chapter II of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 410, the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, the Boston Fire Prevention Code
and any other applicable municipal code, ordinance or commonwealth law,
regulating the conditions or occupancy of housing accommodations.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if, for good cause, the building is not
currently in compliance with any of the above codes, ordinances or laws, the
removal permit must be conditioned upon the applicant’s agreement to bring the
building and/or unit into such compliance within a specific time period
determined reasonable by the applicable enforcement agency.
         (c)   Maintenance and repairs. Whenever the housing accommodation is
used for rental housing purposes, the owner must designate a person or persons
within 25 miles of the building to be responsible for maintenance and repairs.
The tenant in each unit shall be informed by the owner or his or her Agent in
writing as to who is responsible for maintenance and repairs, both as to common
and individual unit areas, and such notice shall be updated whenever there is a
change in tenants or a change in who is responsible for such maintenance.
         (d)   Rent and eviction protections. The granting of a removal permit
under this Subsection shall not by itself operate to change the classification
of the housing accommodation of controlled or vacancy decontrolled and the
provisions of this Section as the decontrol under paragraph e. of the
definition of “housing accommodation” in Subsection 10-2.1 shall continue to be
in full force and effect. Nothing herein, however, shall extinguish the right
of a landlord after the granting of a removal permit to seek decontrol status
of a housing accommodation which is voluntarily vacated within the meaning of
said paragraph e. of the definition of “housing accommodation” in Subsection
10-2.1.
      (5)   Procedures.
         (a)   The Board shall consider an application for a removal permit for
a controlled or decontrolled housing accommodation, or an application to modify
the terms of a removal permit previously issued, upon receipt of an application
filed by the landlord, owner or other authorized person. Such application shall
be made on a form approved by the Administrator. The Board shall notify the
applicant and tenant of the receipt of an application and of the right of
either party to request a hearing in writing within 15 calendar days of the
date of such notice. At any time, the Board may, on its own initiative, order a
hearing on any application. If a hearing is timely requested by either party,
or if the action is undertaken on the initiative of the Board, notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be furnished to the applicant and tenant
and the hearing shall be conducted before a designee of the Board. Hearings,
final decision and notification of the final decision to the applicant relative
to permits shall occur within 60 days of the filing of the request unless the
parties otherwise agree. The Board may consolidate applications relating to
housing accommodations in the same building or development. The Board may
conduct a single hearing on all such consolidated applications. The
Administrator may designate a person or persons to participate in a removal
proceeding, where appropriate, in order to further the provisions and purposes
of this Section and to serve the public interest.
         (b)   Removal permit hearings shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 11 except that requirements (7)
and (8) of such Section 11 shall not apply to such hearings.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, if a
decision regarding a removal permit has been made with regard to such
controlled or decontrolled housing accommodation within the preceding 12
months, the Board may, without holding a hearing, refuse to grant a removal
permit for that housing accommodation or may dismiss any such application. In
addition, if the application is not in conformance with the filing requirement
of this Section or applicable regulations, the Administrator may
administratively dismiss such application without holding a hearing.
   (F)   Enforcement. All of the remedies provided in Subsections 10-2.16
through 10-2.19 shall be available to the Board for purposes of enforcing
Subsection 10-2.11.
(CBC 1985 10-2.11; Ord. 1988 c. 9 § 8) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see § 11-5
Editor’s note:
   Refer to Subsection 10-2.1.
10-2.12   Permits for Removal/Conservations of Housing Accommodations in
Lodging Houses and Rooming Houses.
   (A)   General rule.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other statute, ordinance, code or law to the
contrary, no person shall remove any occupied or vacant, controlled or
decontrolled lodging house unit from actual or potential rental housing use,
without first obtaining a removal/conversion permit from the Board. Such
provisions shall apply whether or not there is a license for such lodging
house. The Board may establish reasonable regulations governing the criteria
listed in division (C) below and the procedures to be followed regarding
application for and issuance of removal/conversion permits. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, any lodging house unit, or any
lodging house building or structure owned by an educational institution on or
before March 30, 1988 and now or hereafter used by such educational institution
for dormitory or student housing purposes shall be exempt from the removal
permit requirement. Such use shall not constitute a removal.
      (2)   Further, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
lodging house units which are newly constructed or converted to lodging house
use after the effective date of this Subsection and which have not been rented
or offered for rent previously as lodging house units shall be exempt from the
lodging house removal permit requirement. Said exemption shall have no effect
on the operation of all other ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. See definition for “dormitory or student housing”,
“lodging house” and “lodging house unit” in Subsection 10-2.1.
   (C)   Removal permit criteria. The Board, in determining whether to grant or
deny a removal/conversion permit shall consider the aggravation of the shortage
of safe, decent and affordable rental housing units, especially lodging house
units, in the city and its neighborhoods which may result from the removal/
conversion, especially for low to moderate income, handicapped or elderly
tenants.
      (1)   In making such determination, the Board, in its discretion, shall
make findings on any or all of the following factors:
         (a)   The benefits and detriments to the persons whom the ordinance
and this Subsection seek to protect;
         (b)   The hardships imposed on the tenant(s) residing in the lodging
house units proposed to be removed or converted;
         (c)   Circumstances demonstrating hardship and inequity to the
applicant seeking a permit;
         (d)   The rate of vacancy in the city at the time the applicant
applies for a permit;
         (e)   Whether the majority of the tenants are elderly, as defined in
Subsection 10-2.1 or handicapped, as defined in Subsection 10-2.1 or low or
moderate income as defined in Subsection 10-2.1 or low income as defined in
Subsection 10-2.1; or
         (f)   Any other relevant factors.
      (2)   Any removal/conversion permit granted by the Board may be subject
to such terms and conditions which the Board may require in furtherance of the
purposes of the Subsection.
   (D)   Hearings. Removal/conversion hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 11 except that requirements
(7) and (8) of such Section 11 shall not apply to such hearings.
   (E)   Judicial review. All decisions of the Board with regard to removal/
conversion permits may be appealed to the District Court Department of the
Trial Court for the judicial district within which the housing accommodation is
located or the Housing Court Department of the Trial Court, City of Boston
Division, within 30 calendar days after the notice of such decision.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Superior Court Department of the Trial Court and the Housing
Court Department of the Trial Court, City of Boston, shall severally have
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this Subsection and any rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant to this Subsection, and may restrain or enjoin
violations of this Subsection.
      (2)   The Rent Equity Board shall give notice of a hearing within 14 days
from the filing of a petition for a removal permit and shall hold a removal
permit hearing within 30 days from the date of the filing of the petition. The
Rent Board shall make a decision within 45 days from the filing of the
petition. Should the Rent Board fail to meet the schedule set forth herein,
parties may seek an order from the Superior Court or the Housing Court
Department of the Trial Court, City of Boston Division requesting an order that
the Rent Equity Board make an expedited determination of the petition. Upon
finding that the Rent Board has failed to comply with the schedule set forth
herein, the court shall order an expedited hearing and determination of the
petition.
   (G)   Transition. All actions, cases, Board decisions decided or pending
under the June 16, 1987 Amendment entitled “Permits for Removal/Conversion of
Housing Accommodations in Lodging and Rooming Houses” shall be governed as
provided for in this Subsection.
      (1)   All decisions rendered by the Board under the provisions of June
16, 1987 Amendment shall remain in full force and effect under the provisions
of this amendment.
      (2)   All matters pending before the Board as of the effective date of
this Subsection shall remain in full force and effect but shall be processed in
accordance with the provisions of this amendment.
      (3)   The provisions of the June 16, 1987 amendment, shall be treated as
remaining in force and effect for the purpose of sustaining in court any proper
suit, action or prosecution with respect to any right, liability or offense
arising under such amendment. However any such suit, action or prosecution
shall be processed under the provisions of this amendment.
   (H)   Effective date. This amendment to Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984
shall be effective immediately upon passage. Matters decided by or pending
before the Board and matters decided or pending in Court shall be treated in
accordance with division (G) above.
   (I)   Severability. The provisions of this amendment and the ordinance it
amends (this Section) shall be severable and if any one or more provisions, or
parts or subparts thereof, shall be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction the decision of such court shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions or parts thereof.
(CBC 1985 10-2.12; Ord. 1987 c. 6 § 5; Ord. 1988 c. 4 § (i)-(iii); Ord. 1988 c.
7 § 1)
Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
Editor’s note:
   This Subsection (ordinance) was adopted by the Boston City Council on May 4,
1988 and approved by the Mayor on May 20, 1988. This Subsection (ordinance) was
adopted by the Boston City Council on May 4, 1988 and approved by the Mayor on
May 20, 1988 Chapter 34 of the Ordinance of 1984 is codified as Section 10-2.
10-2.13   Permits for Removal of Mobile Home Accommodations in Mobile Home
Parks.
   (A)   Removal permits required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a mobile home park to remove
any mobile home accommodation in a mobile home park or discontinue the use of
part or all of the land owned and licensed as a mobile home park without having
first obtained a mobile home removal permit from the Rent Equity Board subject
to the provision contained herein.
      (2)   Such provisions shall apply whether or not the license for such
premises is still in effect. The Board may establish reasonable regulations
governing the criteria and the procedures to be followed regarding application
for and issuance of mobile home removal permits.
   (B)   Permit criteria. In determining whether to grant a removal permit, the
Board shall consider the aggravation of the shortage of safe, decent and
affordable mobile home park accommodations in Boston, which may result from the
discontinuance of use as a mobile home park, especially for tenants of low or
moderate income or elderly persons on fixed incomes. In making such a
determination the Board shall review and make findings as to all relevant
factors including, without limitation, the following:
      (1)   The benefits and detriments to the persons whom this Subsection
seeks to protect;
      (2)   The hardships imposed on the tenant(s) residing in the controlled
or decontrolled unit proposed to be removed;
      (3)   Circumstances demonstrating hardship and inequity to the applicant
seeking a mobile home removal permit; and
      (4)   The rate of vacancy in the city at the time the applicant applies
for a mobile home removal permit.
   (C)   Removal procedure.
      (1)   The Board shall consider an application for a mobile home removal
permit for a mobile home park upon receipt of an application filed by the
landlord or other authorized person.
      (2)   The Board shall schedule a public hearing within 60 days of receipt
of the application. The Board shall notify the applicant and all residents of
the mobile home park of the hearing.
      (3)   The mobile home removal permit hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 11 except that
requirements (7) and (8) of such Section 11 shall not apply to such hearings.
      (4)   The provisions of Section Five (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Chapter 6,
the Ordinances of 1987 shall apply to such hearings.
(CBC 1985 10-2.13; Ord. 1987 c. 12 § 13; Ord. 1988 c. 9 § 9) Penalty, see
Subsection 10-2.17
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 6 of the Ordinances of 1987, Section 5, is codified as Subsection
10-2.12.
10-2.13A   Notice and Reasonable Opportunity to Purchase Units at the Time of
Initial Conversion to Condominiums or Cooperatives.
   (A)   Notice of planned conversion.
      (1)   Where, on or after the date that this Subsection is adopted by the
city, a landlord converts or has the intent to convert a housing accommodation
to the condominium or cooperative form of ownership, the landlord shall, prior
to such conversion and/or the marketing of such condominium or cooperative
units, give written notice of such conversion or planned conversion to the
tenants residing in such housing accommodations, as well as notice to the
Center. The notice shall describe the terms under which the tenants may
purchase such property. The notice shall describe the price and the terms of
any bona fide offer that the landlord would intend to accept for purchase of
the housing accommodations. The Center shall provide information to such
tenants of their rights under this Section and of available local, commonwealth
or federal programs to assist in purchasing such accommodations.
      (2)   If a tenant who is entitled to receive the notice of intent to
convert as required herein vacates the residential unit before the initial sale
and transfer of title to the residential unit as a condominium unit has
occurred, then the landlord shall give each prospective tenant of the
residential unit written notice, prior to the inception of the tenancy, which
informs the prospective tenant that the unit is a condominium unit and, if
applicable, that the unit is currently being offered for sale or will be
offered for sale within 90 days of the inception of the tenancy.
   (B)   Right of first refusal on initial conversion/sale of housing
accommodations as condominium or cooperative units. Individual tenants shall be
given the right to purchase a housing accommodation which is converted or
intended for conversion and sale as an individual condominium or cooperative
unit on terms and conditions which are substantially the same as, or more
favorable than, those which the owner extends to the public generally, or to a
third party, whichever is less, for the 90 days following the expiration of
said tenant’s right to purchase. Such tenant may exercise a right to purchase
such housing accommodation by executing a purchase and sale agreement prior to
the expiration of 90 days after the date that the tenant receives a copy of the
purchase and sale agreement properly executed by the person offering the
housing accommodation for sale. No owner shall unreasonably refuse to enter
into, or unreasonably delay the execution of, a purchase and sale agreement
with a tenant entitled to a right of first refusal under this Section that has
made a bona fide offer to meet the price and substantially equivalent terms and
conditions of an offer for which notice is required to be given pursuant to
this Subsection. Failure of the tenant entitled to exercise the right of first
refusal to execute such a purchase and sale agreement within the 90-day period
shall serve to terminate the right of the tenant to purchase the housing
accommodation, and there shall be no right of first refusal at the time of the
subsequent sale of such unit; provided, however, the tenant shall still have
the right of first refusal in the event of a condominium or cooperative
conversion eviction as described in Subsection 10-2.10(F). The time periods
herein provided may be extended by agreement between the tenant and the
landlord.
   (C)   Subsequent notice and opportunity to purchase if bona fide offer
changes. The right of first refusal created herein shall inure to a tenant for
the time periods herein before provided. The effective period of such right of
first refusal shall obtain separately for each substantially different bona
fide offer to purchase the housing accommodation, and for each offer
substantially equivalent to an offer made more than three months prior to the
later offer; provided, however, in the case of a substantially equivalent offer
made by a prospective buyer who has previously made an offer which notice was
required under this Subsection, the right of first refusal shall obtain only if
such subsequent offer is made more than six months after the earlier offer.
   (D)   Exemption to right of first refusal. The right of first refusal shall
not apply with respect to any offer received by the owner for which notice is
not required pursuant to this Subsection. No right of first refusal shall apply
to a government taking by eminent domain or negotiated purchase, a force sale
pursuant to a foreclosure, transfer by gift, devise or operation of law or a
sale to a person who would be included within the table of descent and
distribution if there were to be a death intestate of the landlord.
   (E)   Documentation of compliance. In any instance in which the tenant is
not the successful purchaser of such housing accommodation at the time of
conversion to the condominium or cooperative form of ownership, the landlord
shall certify compliance with this Subsection by filing an affidavit of
compliance with the Center within 90 days of the sale of the individual
condominium or cooperative unit; a copy of such affidavit shall also be
provided to the tenant.
(CBC 1985 10-2.13A; Ord. 1999 c. 8 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 10-2.17
Editor’s note:
   Former Subsection 10-2.13A, Removal Permits, previously codified herein and
containing portions of Ordinance 1996 c. 3 was repealed in its entirety by
Ordinance 1999 c. 8.
10-2.13B   Interaction of This Section with Other Law; Transitional Provisions.
   (A)   Interaction with other laws. This Section is only intended to
delineate and further define the city’s regulation of condominium or
cooperative conversions and condominium or cooperative conversion evictions
under St. 1983, c. 527, and to not limit the rights of tenants, landlords or
any City Agency or authority under any other source of law, contract or
agreement which may regulate such conversions or evictions in any type of
housing in the city. Should a housing accommodation which is subject to the
provisions of this Section also be subject to protections under other law, the
tenant, landlord or any City Agency or authority shall be entitled to rely on
all protections that may apply under applicable law.
   (B)   Conversion of housing accommodations after rent control enabling
authority ended. Where a housing accommodation was first converted to the
condominium or cooperative conversion form of ownership after rent control
enabling authority lapsed for such housing accommodation, and prior to the
adoption of this Section, and the landlord complied with the provisions of
Section 4 of Chapter 527 of the Acts of 1983, as amended, regarding notice to
tenants of their rights and options with regard to condominium/cooperative
conversion evictions, such action shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
Section; provided, however, any affected landlord shall notify the Center of
such action and the names and addresses of all tenants given such notices
within 90 days of the enactment of this Section.
   (C)   Conversion of housing accommodations prior to the lapse of rent
control enabling authority — rights of tenants in occupancy at the time of
conversion or initial sale. Where a housing accommodation was first converted
to the condominium or cooperative conversion form of ownership prior to the
lapse of rent control enabling authority, and as of the effective date of this
Section there are elderly, handicapped or low or moderate income tenants
remaining in occupancy who resided there at the time of conversion or initial
sale of the housing accommodation as an individual condominium or cooperative
unit, such tenants shall be entitled to the benefits and options provided in
Subsection 10-2.10.
(CBC 1985 10-2.13B; Ord. 1999 c. 8, § 4)
Editor’s note:
   Former Subsection 10-2.1313, Regulations and Enforcement, previously
codified herein and containing portions of Ordinance 1996 c. 3 was repealed in
its entirety by Ordinance 1998 c. 8.
10-2.14   Duties of the Board.
   Certified copies of all policies, rules and regulations of the Board shall
be forwarded to the City Clerk who shall forward them forthwith to the City
Council.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 11; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.14)
10-2.15   Suspicious Fires.
   In the event that any owner of property under conversion to condominiums or
cooperatives suffers loss in three or more such properties because of fire, the
records of the Building Department and the Assessing Department shall indicate
such conditions by the addition of the plans, maps, printouts and records of
the city of the words “loss by fire” on the affected structures. Any fire in a
unit undergoing conversion determined by the Fire Commissioner to be a
suspicious origin shall be identified in said plans, maps, printouts and
records by the addition of the words “suspicious fire”.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 12; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.15)
10-2.16   Civil Remedies.
   (A)   Any person who demands, accepts, receives or retains any payment of
rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent, in violation of the provisions of
this Section, or any rule, regulation or order hereunder promulgated, shall be
liable as hereinafter provided to the person from whom such payment is
demanded, accepted, received or retained, or to the city for reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs as determined by the court, plus liquidated damages
in the amount of $100, or not more than three times the amount by which the
payment or payments demanded, accepted, received or retained exceed the maximum
rent which could be lawfully demanded, accepted, received or retained,
whichever is the greater; provided, however, that if the defendant proves that
the violation was neither willful nor the result of failure to take practicable
precautions against the occurrence of the violation, the amount of such
liquidated damages shall be the amount of the overcharge or overcharges.
   (B)   If the person from whom such payment is demanded, accepted, received
or retained in violation of the provisions of this Section or any rule,
regulation or order hereunder promulgated, fails to bring an action under this
Section within 30 calendar days from the date of the occurrence of the
violation, the Board may settle the claim arising out of the violation or bring
such action upon its own initiative. Settlement by the Board shall thereafter
bar any other person from bringing action for the violation or violations with
regard to which a settlement has been reached. In the event the Board settles
said claim, it shall be entitled to retain the costs it incurred in the
settlement thereof, and the person against whom the violation has been
committed shall be entitled to the remainder. In the event the city initiates
action pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection, it shall be entitled to
receive attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant to the provisions of division (A)
above and the person against whom the violation was committed shall be awarded
liquidated damages pursuant to the provisions of said division (A).
   (C)   A judgment for damages or on the merits in any action initiated
pursuant to this Subsection shall be a bar to any recovery pursuant to this
Subsection or in any other action against the same defendant on account of any
violation with respect to the same person prior to the initiation of the action
in which such judgment was rendered. Action to recover liquidated damages
pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection shall not be brought later than
one year after the date of violation. A single action for damages pursuant to
the provisions of this Subsection may include all violations of the provisions
of this Subsection committed by the same defendant against the same person.
   (D)   The District Court Department of the Trial Courts for the judicial
district within which the housing accommodation affected is located and the
Housing Court Department of the Trial Courts, City of Boston Division, shall
severally have concurrent original jurisdiction over all actions and complaints
initiated pursuant to this Subsection.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 13; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.16)
10-2.17   Criminal Penalties.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to demand, accept, receive or
retain any rent for the use or occupancy of any housing accommodations in
excess of the maximum rent prescribed therefor pursuant to the provisions of
this Section or any rule, regulation or order hereunder promulgated, or
otherwise to do or omit to do any action in violation of the provisions of this
Section or the rules, regulations or orders hereunder promulgated. It shall be
unlawful for any person by act or omission knowingly to engage in any conduct
tending to deprive a tenant of, or to prevent a tenant from exercising, any
right conferred by this Section, including, without limitation, any such
conduct tending to deprive a tenant of the peace, comfort or enjoyment of a
housing accommodation in violation of this Section and any such conduct
intended to result in substantial inconvenience or amounting to a violation of
privacy, harassment, intimidation, threat or coercion.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to demand, accept, receive or
retain any payment which exceeds the maximum lawful rent for one month as a
finder’s fee or service charge for the opportunity to examine or lease any
housing accommodation; provided, however, no finder’s fee or service charge
shall be lawful unless the person from whom the payment is demanded, accepted,
received or retained actually rents or leases the housing accommodation with
regard to which payment of said fee or said charge has been demanded, accepted,
received or retained.
   (C)   Whoever willfully violates any provision of this Section or any rule,
regulation or order hereunder promulgated or whoever knowingly makes any false
statement in any testimony before the Board or whoever knowingly supplies any
false information or knowingly makes false statement to, or files a false
affidavit with, the Board shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both; provided, however, that in
the case of a second or subsequent offense, such person shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $3,000 or by imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
   (D)   The District Court Department of the Trial Courts for the judicial
district within which the housing accommodation affected is located and the
Housing Court Department of the Trial Courts, City of Boston Division, shall
severally have concurrent jurisdiction over all such actions and complaints.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 14; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.17)
10-2.18   Judicial Review.
   All decisions of the OHS or ISD, except as otherwise provided in this
Subsection, may be appealed to the Housing Court Department of the Trial
Courts, Eastern Division, within 30 calendar days after the date of such
decision; provided, however, that this Section shall not be construed to
provide a right of appeal of a general adjustment decision pursuant to
Subsection 10-2.5a.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 15; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.18; Ord. 2021 c. 3 § 3)
10-2.19   Injunctions.
   The Superior Court Department of the Trial Courts and the Housing Court
Department of the Trial Courts, City of Boston Division, shall severally have
jurisdiction to restrain by injunction any violation of this Section or any
rule, regulation or order hereunder promulgated.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 16; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.19)
10-2.20   Effective Date and Duration.
   This Section shall become effective as of the date signed by the Mayor or
acting Mayor and shall remain in effect until December 31, 2025 or until a
prior determination by the Mayor and Boston City Council that the present
rental housing emergency no longer exists.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 17; Ord. 1969 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.20; Ord. 1999 c. 3; Ord. 1999 c. 8 § 5; Ord. 2004 c. 12 §
2; Ord. 2009 c. 9; Ord. 2014 c. 16 § 3; Ord. 2019 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2020 c. 6 § 1;
Ord. 2021 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 3 § 4)
10-2.21   Constitutional Construction.
   The provisions of this Section are severable, and if any of its provisions
shall be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 18; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.21; Ord. 1993 c. 7)
10-2.22   Transitional Provisions.
   (A)   Scope. Repeal of Chapter 1: Except as otherwise provided herein,
Chapter 1 of the Ordinances of 1983, as amended, is hereby repealed as of the
effective date of this Section. All matters initiated under Chapter 1 which are
pending before or decided by the Board, or pending before any court, or any
valid condominium or cooperative conversion eviction notice or related offer,
or additional year notice ruling initiated under the provisions of Chapter 1 or
any rule, regulation or order thereunder promulgated shall be governed as
provided for in this Subsection.
   (B)   Notices sent and matters pending before or decided by the Board.
      (1)   All decisions rendered by the Board under the provisions of Chapter
1 of the Ordinances of 1983, as amended, shall remain in full force and effect
under the provisions of this Section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section to the contrary, all
matters pending before the Board as of the effective date of this Section shall
remain in full force and effect but shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
      (3)   The provisions of said Chapter 1 of the Ordinances of 1983, as
amended, shall be treated as remaining in force and effect for the purpose of
sustaining in court any proper suit, action or prosecution with respect to any
right, liability or offense arising under such Section.
      (4)   All valid condominium or cooperative conversion eviction notices or
related offers given prior to October 3, 1984 pursuant to Chapter 1 of the
Ordinances of 1983, as amended, and the applicable regulations thereunder,
shall be treated as remaining in full force and effect where such notices or
offers comply with the provisions of said Chapter 1 of the Ordinances of 1983,
as amended.
         (a)   Condominium or cooperative conversion eviction notices or
related offers given pursuant to Chapter 1 of the Ordinances of 1983 to tenants
qualifying as low income, low or moderate income elderly or low or moderate
income handicapped under the provisions of this Section on the date such notice
or offer was received shall be null and void and those tenants shall be
entitled to the eviction ban protections of Subsection 10-2.10(F).
         (b)   The provisions of division (B)(4)(a) above shall not apply where
prior to October 3, 1984 a binding purchase and sales agreement has been
executed for a specific unit and a deed has been duly recorded transferring
title of such unit to an owner who certifies under oath to the Board within 45
days of the effective date of this Section that he or she intends to occupy the
unit as his or her permanent residence. If any person so certifying shall fail
to occupy said unit as his or her principal residence and place of domicile
within 90 days of the date the unit becomes vacant, such failure shall be
determined an unfair and deceptive practice and a violation of this Chapter.
Whoever willfully and falsely certifies that they intend to be an owner
occupant, under the provisions of this Subsection, shall be subject to a fine
of $200 per day for each day the offense exists or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed one year or both.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 19; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; Ord. 1985 c. 5 § 1; CBC 1985 10-2.22)
10-2.23   Renumbering Allowed by City Clerk.
   The Sections of this Section and references thereto may be renumbered by the
City Clerk for the purpose only of conforming it to this code.
(Ord. 1972 c. 19; Ord. 1974 c. 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T10 § 20; Ord. 1979 cs. 29,
37; Ord. 1981 c. 8; Ord. 1982 cs. 15, 16, 17, 26, 37; Ord. 1983 cs. 1, 9, 17,
23, 33; CBC 1985 10-2.23)
10-3   BOSTON FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION.
10-3.1   Policy of the City.
   It is the policy of the city to see that each individual, regardless of his
or her race, color, religious creed, marital status, military status, handicap,
children, national origin, sex, gender identity or expression, age, ancestry,
sexual preference or source of income shall have equal access to housing and to
encourage and bring about mutual understanding and respect among all
individuals in the city by the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, bigotry
and discrimination in the area of housing.
(Ord. 1982 c. 10; CBC 1985 10-3.1; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
10-3.2   Establishment of the Boston Fair Housing Commission, Executive
Director, Staff.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Commission known as the Boston Fair
Housing Commission hereinafter called the Commission, which shall be under the
charge of a Board, known as the Fair Housing Commission, hereinafter called the
Commission, consisting of five members, known as Fair Housing Commissioners,
each appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor
for a term of three years; provided, however, that of the members first
appointed to the Commission, two shall be appointed to a term of one year, two
shall be appointed for a term of two years and one shall be appointed for a
term of three years. Thereafter, the Mayor shall appoint each successor to a
term of three years. Any vacancy occurring otherwise than by expiration of term
shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term.
   (C)   All members of the Boston Fair Housing Commission shall be residents
of the city at the time of their appointment and throughout their tenure and
they shall be deemed special municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L.
Chapter 268A. At least one Commissioner shall be a tenant who, at the time of
his or her appointment, shall be eligible on the basis of income for assisted
housing in the city. At least one Commissioner shall be an individual regularly
engaged in the business of sale and/or rental of residential real estate in the
city. At least one Commissioner shall be a member of the Board or a senior
administrator of a community-based, non-profit organization in the city which
seeks to address the housing needs and issues of its community, and at least
one Commissioner shall be demonstrated governmental experience in civil rights.
   (D)   A Chairperson of the Commission shall be annually designated by the
Mayor with the advice of the Commission. Three members shall constitute a
quorum for the purpose of conducting the business thereof, but three votes
shall be required to pass any Commission decision. Reasonable per diem
compensation for Commission members shall be determined by ordinance and each
member shall also be entitled to his or her expenses actually and necessarily
incurred in the performance of his or her duties.
   (E)   There shall be in the Department an Officer, hereinafter called the
Director of the Commission, appointed by the Commission, and such other
personnel as the Commission may, from time to time, deem expedient.
   (F)   The Director shall be the Executive Officer of the Commission and
shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Commission shall, from
time to time, determine. The Commission may delegate to, and recall from, the
Director, whenever the Commission deems it expedient, the power to make
contracts or any or all of its other powers, as the Commission may, from time
to time, determine.
(Ord. 1982 cs. 10, 33; CBC 1985 10-3.2)
10-3.3   Function; Powers and Duties of the Commission.
   The function of the Commission shall be to implement the policy of this
Section, by the exercise of the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive and investigate complaints of, and to forthwith transmit by
ordinary mail for filing with the Massachusetts Commission Against
Discrimination (“MCAD”) a copy of said complaints filed with the Commission,
and to initiate its own investigation of:
      (1)   The denial of equal access to, and discrimination in housing
(regardless of the public or private source of such denial and discrimination),
where such denial or discrimination against either an individual or a group is
based on race, color, religious creed, marital status, handicap, military
status, children, national origin, sex, gender identity or expression, age,
ancestry, sexual preference or source of income; and
      (2)   The presence in the city of prejudice, intolerance, bigotry,
discrimination in the area of housing.
   (B)   To attempt by mediation to resolve any housing discrimination
complaint over which it has jurisdiction and to recommend to all appropriate
governmental Agencies, federal, commonwealth or local, such action as it feels
will resolve any such complaint or in the case of any housing discrimination
investigation which would be aided thereby, to hold hearings, summons
witnesses, compel their attendance, administer oaths, take the testimony of any
person under oath and in connection therewith to require the production of any
evidence relating to any matter in questions or under the investigation before
the Commission. The power to summon witnesses as defined herein shall be
limited to those powers and procedures as set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 233,
Section 8. At any hearing before the Commission, or any Committee thereof, a
witness shall have the right to be advised and represented by counsel present
during any hearings;
   (C)   After completion of any investigation or hearing on any complaint or
matter not resolved by mediation, to make a written report of its findings and
recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council; and to the Massachusetts
Commission Against Discrimination (“MCAD”) on any matter within its
jurisdiction; or to any court or other governmental Agency having jurisdiction
of the matter in question, and in all cases urging and using its best efforts
to bring about compliance with its recommendations;
   (D)   To issue such publications and such results of investigations and
research as, in its judgment, will tend to promote good will and minimize or
eliminate discrimination in housing because of race, color, religious creed,
marital status, military status, children, handicap, national origin, sex,
gender identity or expression, age or ancestry, sexual preference or source of
income. All records shall be public except those that are necessary to ensure
privacy rights under other local, commonwealth or federal laws, those records
that must be kept confidential in compliance with laws and rules of evidence,
and those records containing unsubstantiated allegations reflecting on the
character of any person;
   (E)   To cooperate with federal, commonwealth and city Agencies, in
developing courses of instruction for presentation in public and private
schools, public libraries and other suitable places, devoted to eliminating
prejudice, intolerance, bigotry and discrimination in housing and showing the
need for mutual self-respect and the achievement of harmonious relations among
various groups in the city, and to enlist the cooperation of the various
racial, religious and ethnic groups, civic and community organizations, labor
organizations, fraternal and benevolent organizations and other groups to
effectuate the policy of this Section;
   (F)   To create such subcommittees from the members of the Commission as, in
the Commission’s judgment, will best aid in effectuating the policy of this
Section and to empower such subcommittee to study the problems of prejudice,
intolerance, bigotry and discrimination in housing prevailing in the city;
   (G)   To make such recommendations to the Mayor and Boston City Council as,
in its judgment, will effectuate the policy of this Section and annually to
make a written report to the Mayor and Boston City Council of its activities,
and to appear quarterly to make an oral report to the City Council; and
   (H)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed under law.
(Ord. 1982 c. 10; CBC 1985 10-3.3; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
10-3.4   Relations with City Agencies.
   (A)   So far as practicable, the services of all other City Departments,
Agencies and Commissions shall be made available to the Commission for
effectuating the policy of this Section.
   (B)   The head of any Department, Agency or other Commission shall furnish
information in the possession of such Department, Agency or Commission when the
Commission so requests and where such information relates to the duties and
responsibilities of the Commission.
(Ord. 1982 c. 10; CBC 1985 10-3.4)
10-3.5   Rules and Regulations of the Commission.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this
Section and the laws of the commonwealth to carry out the policy and provisions
of this Section and the powers and duties of the Commission in connection
therewith.
   (B)   The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of its
investigations and hearings. Said rules shall ensure the due process rights of
all persons involved in the investigations and hearings.
   (C)   Any person or persons appearing before the Commission who avails
himself or herself of constitutional guarantees shall not be punished in any
way by his or her availing himself or herself of such constitutional
guarantees.
   (D)   No complaint shall be considered unless it is filed with the
Commission within 180 days after the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory
practice.
(Ord. 1982 c. 10; CBC 1985 10-3.5)
10-3.6   Severability.
   If any provision or Subsection of this Section shall be held to be invalid,
then such provision or Subsection shall be considered separately and apart from
the remaining provisions or Subsections of this Section, which shall remain in
full force and effect.
(Ord. 1982 c.10; CBC 1985 10-3.6)
10-4   EMERGENCY SHELTER COMMISSION.
10-4.1   Composition of Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Commission, known as the Emergency
Shelter Commission, which shall be under the charge of a Board consisting of
the Director of Public Facilities, or his or her designee, the Commissioner of
Health and Hospitals, or his or her designee, and three Commissioners,
appointed by the Mayor, at least one of whom shall be affiliated with an
organization or Agency which, as a principal activity, provides emergency
shelter to homeless individuals, and at least one of whom shall have
demonstrated experience in assisting members of families disrupted by
intrafamily violence.
   (B)   Each Commissioner shall serve a term of three years; provided,
however, that of the members first appointed to the Commission one shall be
appointed to a term of one year, one shall be appointed to a term of two years
and one shall be appointed to a term of three years. Thereafter, the Mayor
shall appoint each successor to a term of three years. Any vacancy in Office of
a Commissioner shall be filled in like manner for the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as Chairperson to serve
in that capacity for a term of one year.
   (D)   The Commission shall be authorized to hire a Director and such other
staff as, from time to time, is deemed necessary by the Commission.
   (E)   The Commissioners shall serve without compensation and shall be deemed
special municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(Ord. 1983 c. 4; CBC 1985 10-4.1)
10-4.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Commission shall create and maintain an Assistance Information Center in
conjunction with appropriate public and private Agencies and organizations
which provide information and assistance to homeless people; shall work with
appropriate public and private Agencies or organizations which provide food and
shelter to homeless people to coordinate the efforts of such Agencies or
organizations; shall operate a 24 hour telephone information service to
disseminate information among such shelter providers; shall keep daily up-to-
date lists of beds available in crisis or family shelters; shall keep up-to-
date lists of transitional housing opportunities, detoxification centers,
lodging houses and the location of food pantries; shall work in conjunction
with City Departments, Agencies and other commissions to effectuate the use of
vacant public buildings or tax-foreclosed buildings as temporary shelter for
homeless individuals and families; shall submit quarterly written reports to
the Mayor and Boston City Council regarding the sheltering of homeless
individuals and families, services provided by private and public Agencies or
organizations to homeless individuals and families and the development of
increased shelter during weather or other emergencies.
(Ord. 1983 c. 4; Ord. 1985 c. 14; CBC 1985 10-4.2)
10-4.3   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any provision shall be
held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from
the remaining provisions of this Section, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 1983 c. 4; CBC 1985 10-4.3)
10-5   INSTITUTIONAL EXPANSION BOARD.
10-5.1   Established; Members; Terms; Qualifications.
   (A)   There shall be a Board within the Administrative Services Department
to be called the Institutional Expansion Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have nine members, each appointed by the Mayor, as
hereinafter provided. Six shall be appointed from a list of not less than 12
persons determined eligible by the Boston City Council to represent areas of
the city especially impacted by institutional uses. To the extent the Boston
City Council shall determine practical, each such shall be a president or
nominee of civic associations of such neighborhoods. Two shall be appointed
from a list of not less than four residents of such neighborhoods determined
eligible by the City Council; and one shall be an Officer of a tax-exempt
institution having an Office in the city. All members shall be residents of the
city and no member, or member’s immediate family, shall be an employee of the
city or a public institution, except for the institutional representative.
Those persons who are appointed by virtue of being an Officer of a civic
association as described above need not hold such Office for the duration of
their appointment to the Board. As any vacancy occurs it shall be filled in
like manner as the original appointment. In those cases where the Boston City
Council shall determine eligibility, it shall find eligible not less than two
persons for each vacancy to be filled. During the first three years of the
effectiveness of this Section, civic associations in the following
neighborhoods shall be among those represented on the Board: Alston-Brighton,
Audubon Circle, Back Bay-Beacon Hill, Chinatown, Dorchester, Fenway and Mission
Hill.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; Ord. 1984 c. 3; CBC 1985 10-5.1)
10-5.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Board shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To investigate expansion by public institutions and the effect of such
expansion on the city’s neighborhoods and the supply of decent, affordable
housing in the city;
   (B)   To publish reports and conduct hearings on expansion of public
institutions;
   (C)   To advise other City Boards and Departments with respect to expansion
by public institutions; and
   (D)   To make recommendations for preventing expansion by public
institutions which results in the removal of decent, affordable housing from
the city’s housing market or which adversely affects a neighborhood of the
city.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; CBC 1985 10-5.2)
10-5.3   Application Notice to be Sent to the Board.
   The Board of Appeal, the Public Improvement Commission, the Zoning
Commission, the Inspectional Services Department and the Boston Redevelopment
Authority shall give prompt notice to the Board of each application of a public
institution for a permit, license or other public approval.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; CBC 1985 10-5.3)
10-5.4   Terms of Members.
   The terms of the members of the Board shall be as follows: For those persons
who are initially appointed to the Board following enactment of this Section:
   (A)   Those six persons who are appointed from a list of not less than 12
determined eligible by the City Council, three years; and
   (B)   The remaining three persons, two years.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; CBC 1985 10-5.4)
10-5.5   Election of Chair; Expenses of Members.
   The Board, annually in May, shall elect one of its members as Chair and
another as Vice-Chair. The Board shall also elect a Secretary, who need not be
a member of the Board. The members of the Board shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties. The Board shall cause to be made a detailed record
of its proceedings, which record shall include the vote of each member
participating in its decisions, and the absence of a member or a member’s
failure to vote. The Board shall not be subject to the supervision or control
of the Director of Administrative Services.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; CBC 1985 10-5.5)
10-5.6   Definition.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC INSTITUTION. Any educational, literary, benevolent, charitable,
health or scientific organization eligible to hold property exempt from
taxation under M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, including corporations,
partnerships and trusts controlled or operated for the benefit of such
institutions, but excluding therefrom religious organizations as defined under
M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 11.
(Ord. 1983 c. 12; CBC 1985 10-5.6)
10-6   DECLARING A STATE OF EMERGENCY AND ESTABLISHING CONTROLS RELATIVE TO
INSTITUTIONAL EXPANSION.
10-6.1   Declaration of Emergency.
   (A)   A serious public emergency exists in the city which has been
accentuated by the use by tax-exempt institutions of buildings having or
potentially having a residential use. Such use has:
      (1)   Contributed to the removal of residential housing from the market
while a severe shortage exists;
      (2)   Contributed to the destruction and decay in affected residential
neighborhoods;
      (3)   Created areas of the city where public order is difficult to
enforce; and
      (4)   Deprived the city of needed tax revenues.
   (B)   In addition, this emergency cannot be dealt with solely by the
operation of the private rental housing market nor by existing ordinances and
unless the removal of residential units is additionally regulated and
controlled, such emergency and the displacement resulting therefrom will
produce serious threats to the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Boston. Furthermore, public regulation is necessary in order to
provide residents with a sufficient supply of decent, affordable housing; to
strengthen residential neighborhoods; to encourage public order; and to
preserve the city’s tax base. Now, therefore, pursuant to the authority vested
in it by law, including without limitation, Article 2, as amended, and Articles
47 and 89 of the Amendments to the Constitution of the commonwealth and Chapter
797 of the Acts of 1969, as amended, Chapter 450 of the Acts of 1889, Chapter
355 of the Acts of 1960, Chapter 256 of the Acts of 1953, Chapter 22 of the
Acts of 1949, Chapter 473 of the Acts of 1953 and Chapter 314 of the Acts of
1962 and M.G.L. Chapter 40 and Chapter 140, Sections 22-26 be it ordained by
the Boston City Council as follows.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.1)
10-6.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board established to exercise powers conferred by Chapter 797 of
the Acts of 1969, as amended, and any successor to that Board.
   INSTITUTIONAL EXPANSION BOARD. The Institutional Expansion Board of the
city.
   PUBLIC INSTITUTION. Any educational, literary, benevolent, charitable,
health or scientific organization, eligible for exemption from taxation under
M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, including corporations, partnerships and trusts
controlled or operated for the benefit of such institutions, and any natural or
non-natural person acting for the purpose of, or in anticipation of,
transferring control of one or more residential units to any such organization,
but excluding therefrom religious organizations as defined under M.G.L. Chapter
59, Section 5, Clause II.
   REMOVAL FROM MARKET.
      (1)   As applied to a residential unit, includes but is not limited to,
action of a public institution in:
         (a)   The occupancy of any such unit for any nonresidential use. For
the purposes of this Section, occupancy by students, faculty, staff or
employees of a public institution, or any use not for residential purposes,
shall constitute a nonresidential use;
         (b)   The demolition of a building containing residential units,
except pursuant to lawful government order;
         (c)   The rehabilitation, repair or improvement of a structure
containing residential units, other than as required by the laws of the
commonwealth or the city, in such a way as to eliminate such units from the
residential rental market; or
         (d)   The application for a building permit to establish a different
legal occupancy for a structure containing residential units.
      (2)   The eviction of a tenant, except for just cause determined by the
Board on application of the owner; provided that just cause shall not be in
conflict with this Section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, REMOVAL FROM THE MARKET shall not
include any rehabilitation, repair, improvement or demolition where the owner
convenants in writing with the Board to restore such unit to the residential
real estate market following such rehabilitation, repair, improvement or
demolition.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any unit with respect to which the city can, under Chapter
797 of the Acts of 1969, as amended, exercise rent and/or eviction controls,
whether or not the city has heretofore exercised such controls.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.2)
10-6.3   Removal Regulated.
   In order to provide residents of the city with a sufficient supply of
decent, affordable housing; to strengthen residential neighborhoods; to
encourage public order; and to preserve the city’s tax base, no public
institution shall remove from the market any residential unit, unless the Board
after a public hearing grants a permit therefor. The Board may issue orders and
promulgate regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Subsection, and to
prescribe the procedure for applications, notice, hearings and the granting and
withdrawal of permits. Copies of each application received hereunder shall be
submitted for comment to the Institutional Expansion Board, the Police
Commissioner and the Fire Commissioner.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.3)
10-6.4   Considerations.
   In deciding whether to grant a permit under this Section, the Board shall
grant a permit under this Section only if:
   (A)   No significant hardship will be imposed on the tenants residing in the
residential units proposed to be removed;
   (B)   No significant aggravation of the shortage of decent rental housing
accommodations, especially for families of low and moderate income and elderly
people on fixed incomes, will result from the removal;
   (C)   No significant negative or adverse effect on the neighborhood in which
the unit is located will result; and
   (D)   The benefits to the public institution seeking the permit will
outweigh clearly and convincingly the adverse effects of such removal.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.4)
10-6.5   Penalties.
   Any person who violates this Section shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500. The removal of each residential unit shall constitute a separate
violation. In addition, any violation hereof which continues for more than 30
days shall be punished by a fine for every day beyond such 30 days of $200 a
day.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.5)
10-6.6   Equitable Relief.
   The Board or any person aggrieved by a failure to comply with this Section
may enforce its provisions in a civil action for injunctive or declaratory
relief.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.6)
10-6.7   Rules and Regulations; Promulgation of.
   The Board shall have the power to promulgate standards and regulations to
effectuate the purpose of this Section, which purpose is ameliorating the above
emergency.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.7)
10-6.8   Publishing of Reports Showing Payments in Lieu of Taxes from Tax-
Exempt Institutions.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall publish biannually in the City Record and
deliver to the Boston City Council on June 1 and December 1 in each year
reports showing payments received in lieu of taxes from tax-exempt institutions
for each assessable parcel, the fair market value of such properties and the
percentage of value received in lieu of taxes. In addition, such reports shall
identify the agreement pursuant to which such payments are being received by
the city. Copies of such agreements shall be made available during business
hours to the public in a convenient location in City Hall. The Assessor shall
furnish the Collector-Treasurer with the assessments required to be published
at least 30 days prior to the publishing.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.8)
10-6.9   Dormitory Licensing and Registration.
   (A)   No building owned or constructively controlled by a public institution
as defined in Subsection 10-6.1 and occupied in whole or in part as a residence
for faculty, staff and students of an institution, and no building 25% of which
is rented by a college or university for residential purposes shall be occupied
without a license pursuant to the provisions of this Section. Hereafter, such
buildings are referred to as “dormitories”, notwithstanding the fact that such
buildings may not be dormitories within the meaning of another code or
ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall be responsible for the
annual licensing of all dormitories. The Commissioner shall issue a license for
each such building following inspection thereof provided:
      (1)   It complies with the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR;
the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 400 and 410; and the Boston
Zoning Code as evidenced by an appropriate established legal occupancy and a
dormitory license issued by the Licensing Board for the city;
      (2)   It complies with the provisions of this Subsection as evidenced by
a validly issued removal permit, or evidence that such structure met this
division (B) prior to December 31, 1982; and
      (3)   The Public Institution which operates or proposes to operate the
structure provides clear and convincing evidence of its ability to operate such
structure in a manner consistent with the public health, safety and welfare. In
order to ensure that the public health, safety and welfare have been fully
satisfied, the Commissioner shall hold a public hearing with respect to any
dormitory for which a license has been requested upon the written petition of
ten residents of the city.
   (C)   In order to more fully protect the occupants of dormitories and
neighbors thereto, the owner of each dormitory shall:
      (1)   Post and maintain on such structure adjacent to the mailboxes for
such dwelling or elsewhere clearly visible to residents and non-residents a
notice, not less than 20 square inches in size bearing the information required
by M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 35 and the names and telephone number of:
         (a)   The person(s) supervising said dormitory for the college or
university administrative Office; and
         (b)   The resident described in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Have a person of legal age resident in each dormitory responsible
for emergencies; and
      (3)   Conspicuously post its license under this Subsection in the
location required by division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   The annual fee for each such license shall be $50 plus $5 for each bed
or sleeping place contained therein.
   (E)   The license required by this Subsection shall be in addition to any
and all other licenses which may be required by any other law, ordinance or
regulation, it being the intent hereof to establish additional controls with
respect to institutional use and to that end this Section shall be construed as
supplementing prior enactments rather than replacing any of them.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.9) Penalty, see Subsection 10-6.5
10-6.10   Inspection of Dormitories; Permit.
   The Fire Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall annually inspect each
dormitory herein to ensure full compliance with all fire and safety
regulations. If a dormitory is in full compliance with said regulations, the
Commissioner shall issue a permit which permit shall be prominently posted. The
fee for each such permit shall be $50.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.10)
10-6.11   Biannual Report of the Police Commissioner.
   (A)   The Police Commissioner shall prepare a biannual report to be
published in the City Record and delivered to the Boston City Council on June 1
and December 1 in each year reporting:
      (1)   The number of incident reports of public complaints with respect to
noise and public disorder with respect to dormitories, including particular
problem areas;
      (2)   The number of fires in dormitories;
      (3)   The number of incident reports of complaints regarding uncollected
refuse attributable to occupants of dormitories;
      (4)   A summary of the number of students resident in Boston arrested
within the city; and
      (5)   The number of crimes occurred in or attributable to occupants of
dormitories.
   (B)   Such report shall contain recommendations concerning the improvement
of public order at and around dormitories.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.11)
10-6.12   Effectiveness and Severability.
   (A)   Effectiveness. This Section shall take effect upon its passage and
shall remain in effect until the above declaration of a state of emergency is
revoked by the City Council.
   (B)   Severability. The provisions of this Section are severable. If a court
declares invalid any such provision or the application of such provision to any
person or circumstance, the invalidity shall not affect the validity of any
other provision or application.
(Ord. 1982 c. 39; CBC 1985 10-6.12)
10-7   NEIGHBORHOOD IMPACT COMMISSION.
10-7.1   Members; Qualifications.
   There shall be in the City a Board known as the Neighborhood Impact
Commission, consisting of the following persons or his or her designee: two
members of the Mayor’s Office who advise the Mayor on housing and development
issues; the Commissioner of the Assessing Department; the Administrator of the
Rent Equity Board; the Director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority; the
Executive Secretary of the Board of Appeal; and up to three other persons to
assure the Board reflects the racial composition of the city; the President of
the City Council; and one member who shall be the District City Councillor from
each district, who shall be a “floating member” who shall sit on the Commission
where issues relative to his or her district are concerned.
(Ord. 1984 c. 28; CBC 1985 10-7.1)
10-7.2   No Compensation or Expenses Allowed.
   All members of the Commission shall serve ex officio and shall receive no
additional compensation or expenses for their service on the Commission. The
members of the Commission shall be classified as special municipal employees
for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
(Ord. 1984 c. 28; CBC 1985 10-7.2)
10-7.3   Duties.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet at least once each month for purposes of
coordinating as fully as possible the activities of the city with regard to
institutional expansion. At each of its regular meetings, the Commission shall
receive all reports and discuss all matters relating to institutional expansion
with the Chairperson of the Institutional Expansion Board, or his or her
designee.
   (B)   All members of the said Commission shall be subject to the Residency
and Voter Registration ordinance with respect to Principal Officers,
notwithstanding any exception therein contained.
(Ord. 1984 c. 28; CBC 1985 10-7.3)
10-8   NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING TRUST.
10-8.1   Establishment.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall establish the “Neighborhood Housing Trust”,
which trust shall be established in the form and manner of the attached
Declaration of Trust; and that, subject to approval by the Boston City Council
and the Mayor, the Neighborhood Housing Trust be and hereby is authorized to
accept and expend any and all funds contributed to it consistent with the
purposes of the Declaration of Trust attached hereto and filed herewith.
(CBC 1985 10-8.1; Ord. 1986 c. 7, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   A copy of the “Declaration of Trust” shall be kept on file in the Office of
the Boston City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
10-9   BOSTON RESIDENT PREFERENCE IN HOUSING PROGRAMS.
10-9.1   Purpose.
   These Sections seek to supplement and clarify the various housing programs
within the city by codifying a preference for Boston residents that
participate.
(CBC 1985 10-9.1; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-9.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOSTON RESIDENT. Any individual who maintains a primary residence (i.e.,
normally eats, sleeps and maintains personal and household effects) in the
city. This definition shall include those persons that are commonly known and/
or Agency-verifiable as homeless and subsisting within the city.
   HOMELESS. Any person or persons that have no home, permanent place of
residence or permanent housing.
(CBC 1985 10-9.2; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-9.3   Policy Statement.
   It is the policy of the city to ensure that every program and/or initiative
which targets or intends to target housing and was/is created, developed,
implemented, administered, required, supervised, managed and/or guided by the
city shall, to the greatest extent allowable under law, include a preference
for Boston residents. Since this policy instills only a preference for Boston
residents, it does not, and it is not the intention of this policy to, exclude
non-residents of the city from such programs and/or initiatives. This policy
shall be construed broadly to effect the intended purpose of installing the
aforementioned preference.
(CBC 1985 10-9.3; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-9.4   Annual Report.
   (A)   In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the programs and/or
initiatives that target or intend to target housing and that was/is created,
developed, implemented, administered, required, supervised, managed and/or
guided by the city, the Department of Neighborhood Development and/or the
Boston Redevelopment Authority or their equivalents shall annually prepare a
report relevant to and regarding the city’s housing programs.
   (B)   The annual report shall include:
      (1)   A list of all rental affordable housing units including the
addresses thereof;
      (2)   A list of all rental affordable housing units created in the
calendar year and the addresses thereof;
      (3)   A list of all rental affordable housing units lost or converted in
the calendar year and the addresses thereof;
      (4)   A list of all non-rental affordable housing units including the
addresses thereof;
      (5)   A list of all non-rental affordable housing units created in the
calendar year and the addresses thereof; and
      (6)   A list of all non-rental affordable housing units lost or converted
in the calendar year and the addresses thereof. This annual report shall be
filed with the Boston City Clerk and with the Boston City Council no later than
March 31 of each calendar year.
(CBC 1985 10-9.4; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-9.5   Implementation.
   The provisions of this Section shall be effective immediately upon passage.
(CBC 1985 10-9.5; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-9.6   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 10-9.6; Ord. 2002 c. 11)
10-10   UNIVERSITY ACCOUNTABILITY.
10-10.1   Purpose.
   (A)   Many students live within the campuses of their respective
universities and colleges. These students receive the benefit of their school’s
security or campus Police services in addition to the city’s Police services.
Because the schools know where their on-campus students live, the schools are
better positioned to provide the security and regulation enforcement services
necessary to protect students and property in these on-campus regions.
   (B)   Many other students, however, live outside the campuses of their
respective universities and colleges. When schools do not know where their off-
campus students live, it is more difficult to assess and satisfy off-campus
security and regulatory enforcement needs. Therefore, it is essential for
schools within the city to collect and maintain records of the locally residing
off-campus student population to better assist the city in its provision of
security and regulatory enforcement services for residents of the city.
(CBC 1985 10-10.1; Ord. 2004 c. 11)
10-10.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPUS. Any real property owned by a school.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   DIRECTORY. The compilation of names, addresses, telephone numbers, statuses
and expected graduation dates gathered by a school in compliance with these
Sections.
   SCHOOL. Any post-secondary educational institution that provides individuals
with a degree or certification upon completion of a curriculum.
   STUDENT. Any person who is enrolled at a school, whether full-time or part-
time.
(CBC 1985 10-10.2; Ord. 2004 c. 11; Ord. 2014 c. 8 § 1)
10-10.3   Collection of Records—Directory.
   (A)   Each and every school domiciled in any part of the city shall collect
and maintain a Directory of the names, complete addresses, statuses (i.e.,
undergraduate or graduate, part-time or full-time), expected graduation dates
and telephone numbers of all students enrolled at the school, as well as a list
of all properties currently rented by the school for use as student residences
under a “master lease” program. The addresses and telephone numbers collected
for the directory must reflect where the student actually resides and at what
phone number the student can be reached for the period in which the student
resides in the city.
   (B)   Each and every school shall collect the required directory information
once each school year beginning in the fall semester.
   (C)   Upon collection, all information collected for the directory shall be
organized and maintained by the school in such a way that the required
information is easily accessible and understandable to any authorized school
official. Each and every school shall submit the report as required by this
Section to the City Clerk in the format provided by the city.
   (D)   All schools shall be responsible for monitoring this directory for
compliance with the Boston Zoning Code’s applicable use regulations with
regards to the Code’s definition of the term FAMILY, which provides that a
group of five or more persons who are enrolled as full-time undergraduate
students at a post secondary educational institution shall not constitute a
family. Upon determining that any student’s residence may be in violation of
the Code, the school shall notify the student(s) of the Code regulation.
(CBC 1985 10-10.3; Ord. 2004 c. 11; Ord. 2009 c. 8; Ord. 2014 c. 8 § 2; Ord.
2016 c. 3 §§ 1, 2)
10-10.4   Report and Statistics Supplied to the City.
   (A)   Each and every school shall supply a report with required statistics
to the city. The information in the report shall be compiled by the school
before October 1 of the fall semester. The information in the report shall be
compiled by the school by October 1 of each calendar year.
   (B)   The report required by this Section shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   The total number of students enrolled at the school as of the date
of collection of the directory information;
      (2)   The total number of students enrolled at the school as of the date
of collection of the directory information that reside on the campus of the
school;
      (3)   The total number of students enrolled at the school as of the date
of collection of the directory information that reside off the campus of the
school;
      (4)   An anonymized breakdown of the number of students enrolled at the
school as of the date of collection of the directory information that reside
off the campus of the school, organized by address and unit number, and also
including zip code, student status (i.e., undergraduate or graduate, part-time
or full-time) and expected graduation date; the breakdown shall further
include, from the following list, the type of off-campus housing each student
resides in:
         (a)   “Master lease” unit;
         (b)   The home of a family member; or
         (c)   Other private housing;
      (5)   A complete list of the addresses of all properties currently owned,
leased, rented or operated by the school at which students are housed; and
      (6)   The number of possible violations discovered pursuant to Subsection
10-10.3(A), listed by address and zip code.
   (B)   The Clerk shall forward the report to the Mayor of the city and shall
docket the report and include the docket on the agenda of the next occurring
meeting of the Boston City Council. The failure or refusal of a school to
forward the report shall be deemed an event of non-compliance with the
provisions of these Sections.
(CBC 1985 10-10.4; Ord. 2004 c. 11; Ord. 2009 c. 8; Ord. 2014 c. 8 § 3; Ord.
2016 c. 3 §§ 3, 4)
10-10.5   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 10-10.5; Ord. 2004 c. 11)
10-10.6   Regulatory Authority.
   The City Clerk shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary to implement and enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 10-10.6; Ord. 2004 c. 11)
10-10.7   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 10-10.7; Ord. 2004 c. 11)
10-10.8   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective 180 calendar days after
passage.
(CBC 1985 10-10.8; Ord. 2004 c. 11)
10-11   HOUSING STABILITY NOTIFICATION ACT.
10-11.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to promote the housing stability of Boston
residents.
(CBC 1985 10-11.1; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
10-11.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. All controlling applicable federal, commonwealth and local
statutes, regulations, ordinances and administrative rules and orders that have
the effect of law, as well as all applicable final, non-appealable judicial
opinions.
   ENTITY. A business organization, or any other kind of organization,
including, without limitation, a corporation, partnership, trust, limited
liability corporation, limited liability partnership, joint venture, sole
proprietorship, development or project, or any other category of organization,
and any employee, agent, servant or other representative of such entity.
   FORECLOSING OWNER. Any natural person or entity that holds title in any
capacity, directly or indirectly, without limitation, whether in its own name,
as trustee or as beneficiary, to a housing accommodation that has been
foreclosed upon and either:
      (1)   Held or owned a mortgage or other security interest in the housing
accommodation at any point prior to the foreclosure of the housing
accommodation, or is the subsidiary, parent, trustee or agent thereof;
      (2)   Is an institutional mortgagee that acquires or holds title to the
housing accommodation; or
      (3)   Is the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation.
   FORMER HOMEOWNER. Any natural person or group of natural persons who, prior
to foreclosure of a housing accommodation, had been the title owner or owners
of such housing accommodation, or who has a legal or beneficial interest in the
housing accommodation by dissolution of marriage, separation agreement,
survivorship, devise or intestate succession, and who at the time of
foreclosure actually occupied such housing accommodation as a resident or
residents.
   LANDLORD. Owner of record, or lessor or sub-lessor of an owner of record, or
any other person, project, housing development or other entity entitled either
to receive rent for the use and occupancy of any rental unit or to maintain an
action for possession of a rental unit, or an agent, representative, successor
or assignee of any of the foregoing.
   LEASE NON-RENEWAL OR EXPIRATION. A provision in a written rental agreement
for a housing accommodation or rental unit that the lease will expire either as
of a fixed date, or at the election of the owner for the failure of the tenant
to take certain affirmative action.
   NOTICE TO QUIT. Any written notice sent by a landlord or a foreclosing owner
to a tenant or former homeowner of a residential rental unit or housing
accommodation seeking to terminate the tenant’s tenancy or the former
homeowner’s occupancy of such rental unit or housing accommodation.
   OFFICE OF HOUSING STABILITY. The Office of the city created to address the
problem of displacement in the city, or any subsequent or successor Office or
entity similarly empowered with like purpose or responsibility, or if no such
Office exists, the City Office or entity with the closest corresponding purpose
or responsibility.
   OWNER. Any person or entity that holds title to one or more dwelling units
in any manner including, but not limited to, a partnership, corporation or
trust. For purposes of this Section, the term OWNER shall include one who
manages, controls or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the owner.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of land along with all fixtures, structures and
improvements thereupon, located in the city, that is assessed and taxed as an
undivided whole.
   RENTAL UNIT. A non-owner occupied room or group of related rooms within a
dwelling used or intended for use by one family or household for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating.
   SKILLED NURSING FACILITY. A health facility or a distinct part of a hospital
that provides, at a minimum, skilled nursing care and supportive care to
patients whose primary medical need is the availability of skilled nursing care
on an extended basis. Such FACILITY must provide 24-hour inpatient care, an
activity program and medical, nursing, dietary and pharmaceutical services.
Additionally, the FACILITY must provide effective arrangements, confirmed in
writing, through which services required by the patients but not regularly
provided within the FACILITY can be obtained promptly when needed.
   TENANCY. Occupation or use of a dwelling unit under an express or implied
rental agreement.
   TENANT. Any person who inhabits or is entitled to inhabit a dwelling unit
under a rental agreement.
(CBC 1985 10-11.2; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
10-11.3   Applicability.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section shall apply to all rental units and
housing accommodations in the city, in whole or in part, where a notice to quit
or other notice of lease nonrenewal or expiration has been served, or should
have been served, on the tenant or former homeowner of any such rental unit or
housing accommodation as of the effective date of this Section, but where any
such rental unit or housing accommodation has not yet been vacated or a final
order of judgment for possession has not entered as of the effective date of
this Section. However, the provisions of this Section shall not apply to the
following types of units:
      (1)   Rental units in any hospital, skilled nursing facility or health
facility; and
      (2)   Rental units in a nonprofit facility that has the primary purpose
of providing short-term treatment, assistance or therapy for alcohol, drug or
other substance abuse.
   (B)   Short-term treatment is treatment meant to last 30 or fewer days where
such housing is incidental to the recovery program and where the client has
been informed in writing of the short-term, temporary or transitional nature of
the housing at its inception.
(CBC 1985 10-11.3; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
10-11.4   Required Notice.
   (A)   When a landlord or foreclosing owner serves the tenant or former
homeowners any notice to quit or notice of lease nonrenewal or expiration, such
landlord or foreclosing owner shall, at the same time, also serve a copy of
said notice to quit or notice of lease nonrenewal or expiration on the city’s
Office of Housing Stability using the city’s electronic landlord portal. All
notice to quit or notice of lease nonrenewal or expiration to tenant or former
homeowners shall also include a notice of basic housing rights and resources,
containing a list of organizations available to assist tenants and/or former
homeowners with their contact information on a form or forms prepared by the
city’s Office of Housing Stability, which shall be attached thereto. Where a
landlord or foreclosing owner is exercising a right of lease nonrenewal or
expiration, the owner shall give such written notice prepared by the city’s
Office of Housing Stability to the tenant at least 30 days prior to commencing
any summary process action against the tenant or former homeowner. Such notice
to tenants shall be provided in-hand, or by certified mail and electronic mail.
   (B)   Notwithstanding M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 26(c) and the
privacy rights therein, a tenant may allow the city to disclose the tenant’s
information to a public advocacy organization.
(CBC 1985 10-11.4; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 7 §§ 1-2)
10-11.5   Non-Waivability.
   The provisions of this Section may not be waived, and any term of any lease,
contract or other agreement which purports to waive or limit a tenant’s or
former homeowner’s substantive or procedural rights under this Section is
contrary to public policy, unenforceable and void.
(CBC 1985 10-11.5; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
10-11.6   Partial Invalidity.
   If any provision of this Section or application thereof is held to be
invalid or in conflict with applicable laws, this invalidity or conflict shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this Section which can be given
effect without the invalid provisions or applications, and to this end, the
provisions and applications of this Section are severable.
(CBC 1985 10-11.6; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
10-11.7   Enforcement.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section shall be reported to and investigated
by the city’s Office of Fair Housing and Equity and enforced by the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services, and their duly authorized Agents,
Officers and employees, by a noncriminal disposition pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter
40, Section 21D, and if applicable, by seeking to restrain a violation by
injunction. Each failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this
Section with respect to an individual tenant or occupant entitled to notice
hereunder shall be deemed a separate offense triggering a separate warning or a
fine of up to $300 per day. Unless otherwise provided, a person or entity
violating any provisions of this Section shall be warned or fined in accordance
with the provisions of the city Ordinances and/or Boston City Charter. The city
may allocate fines collected for violations of this Section for rent relief.
The provisions of this Section may also be enforced according to M.G.L. Chapter
40U as accepted by the city, also known as the “Green Ticket” Law.
   (B)   Within ten days, the city shall petition the Boston Public Health
Commission and the Boston Board of Health to promulgate regulations to prevent
or discourage eviction actions during the COVID-19 pandemic by preventing the
coerced entry into a unit by a sheriff, constable or other party, forcible
removal of tenants and their belongings, and other such actions that would
incur or exacerbate public health risk.
(CBC 1985 10-11.7; Ord. 2020 c. 5 § 1)
CHAPTER XI: PUBLIC SERVICES
Section
11-1   BOSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
11-1.1   Weekly Report by Police Commissioner
   
11-1.2   Shotguns in Police Vehicles; Training of Officers
   
11-1.3   Minimum Number of Marked Police Vehicles Required
   
11-1.4   Police Vehicles to Be Manned Full-Time
   
11-1.5   Minimum Salaries for Patrol Officers
   
11-1.6   Minimum Number of Police Officers on the Boston Police Department
   
11-1.7   Crime Prevention Surveys
   
11-1.8   Civilian Fingerprinting and Criminal History Records Checks for
Certain Licenses
   
11-1.9   Boston Trust Act
   
11-1.10   Restricting the Use of Chemical Crowd Control Agents and Kinetic
Impact Projectiles
   
11-1.11   Report on Gun Trafficking in the City
11-2   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
   
11-2.1   Definitions
   
11-2.2   Alarm Information List
   
11-2.3   Updating Information
   
11-2.4   False Alarm Assessment Schedule
   
11-2.5   Municipal Charges Lien
   
11-2.6   Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Automatic Telephone Devices
   
11-2.7   Testing Equipment
   
11-2.8   Audible Bell or Horn
   
11-2.9   Appeal Procedures
   
11-2.10   Regulations and Enforcement
   
11-2.11   Deposit in the General Fund
   
11-2.12   Severability
11-3   NEIGHBORHOOD AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   
11-3.1   Department, Commissioner, Term
   
11-3.2   Duties of Commissioner
   
11-3.3   Purpose of the Department
   
11-3.4   Agencies Within the Department
   
11-3.5   Agencies Not Created by Law or Ordinance Abolished
   
11-3.6   Annual Report
   
11-3.7   Subordinate Positions
   
11-3.8   Creating the Office of Public Service
11-4   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
11-4.1   Fire Commissioner; Appointments
   
11-4.2   Emergency Authority
   
11-4.3   Assistance to Other Cities and Towns
   
11-4.4   Duties of Superintendent of Fire Alarm
   
11-4.5   Monthly Report on Fires
   
11-4.6   Notice for Hearing on Charges
   
11-4.7   Minimum Salaries
   
11-4.8   Notice to Fire Department Regarding Discontinuance of Electrical
Service to Residential Properties
11-5   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
   
11-5.1   Adoption By Reference
   
11-5.2   Blasting
11-5A   FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
   
11-5A.1   Definitions
   
11-5A.2   Connection of Fire Alarm Systems to the BFD by Way of a Master Box
   
11-5A.3   Connection of Central Station Operating Companies to the BFD
   
11-5A.4   Updating Information
   
11-5A.5   Fire Alarm System Malfunctions—Fines
   
11-5A.5A   Municipal Charges Lien
   
11-5A.6   Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Similar Telephone Devices
   
11-5A.7   Appeal Procedures
   
11-5A.8   Regulations and Enforcement
   
11-5A.9   Deposit in the General Fund
   
11-5A.10   Severability
   
11-5A.11   Effective Date
11-5B   PROHIBITING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF FIREWORKS
   
11-5B.1   Sale, Possession and Use of Fireworks Prohibited
   
11-5B.2   Penalty
   
11-5B.3   Severability
11-5C   REGISTRATION OF LABORATORIES
   
11-5C.1   Purpose
   
11-5C.2   Definitions
   
11-5C.3   Registration and Database
   
11-5C.4   Boston Fire Prevention Code
   
11-5C.5   Emergency Data and Response Plans
   
11-5C.6   Inspections
   
11-5C.7   Registration and Inspection Guide
   
11-5C.8   Registration Fee
   
11-5C.9   Violations, Penalties and Enforcement
   
11-5C.10   Technical Advisory Committee
   
11-5C.11   Regulatory Authority
   
11-5C.12   Severability
   
11-5C.13   Implementation
11-6   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
   
11-6.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner
   
11-6.2   Deputy Commissioner
   
11-6.3   Use of Public Ways
   
11-6.4   Street Lighting
   
11-6.5   Bridges
   
11-6.6   Record of Sewer Construction
   
11-6.7   Sewer Plans
   
11-6.8   Notice of Sewer and Street Work
   
11-6.9   Permits for Street Work; Conditions Thereof
   
11-6.10   Permits to Enter Drains
   
11-6.11   Permits to Obstruct Sidewalks
   
11-6.12   Permits for Coal Holes
   
11-6.13   Permits to Move Buildings
   
11-6.14   Permits for Laying Wires, Rails, Pipes and Conduits
   
11-6.15   Permits for Poles
   
11-6.16   Bonds Required Before Delivery of Permits
   
11-6.17   Permits Prohibited
   
11-6.18   Indemnity for City
   
11-6.19   Appurtenant Structures in the Public Way
   
11-6.20   Responsibility for Condition and Maintenance of Pavement
   
11-6.21   Indemnity for City: Pavement Defects
   
11-6.22   Temporary Repairs on Private Ways
   
11-6.23   Responsibility for Area Surrounding Tracks and Rails
   
11-6.24   Indemnity for City; Tracks and Rails
   
11-6.25   Capital Improvement
   
11-6.26   Guards for Steps and Entrances
   
11-6.27   Excavations Under Sidewalk
   
11-6.28   Record of Notices of Defects
   
11-6.29   Water Supply
   
11-6.30   Water Bills
   
11-6.31   Water Income
   
11-6.32   Water Meters
   
11-6.33   Shutting Off Water
   
11-6.34   Record of Water Takers
   
11-6.35   Regulations for Water Takers
   
11-6.36   Engineering Work
   
11-6.37   Inspection and Measurement of Public Work
   
11-6.38   Discontinuance of Public Work
   
11-6.39   Charge Against Appropriations
   
11-6.40   Division of Engineers; Qualifications
   
11-6.41   Certificate of Qualifications of Engineers
   
11-6.42   Annual Report
   
11-6.43   Vehicles Interfering with the Removal of Snow
   
11-6.44   Vehicles Interfering with the Collection of Garbage and Refuse
11-7   PROPERTY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
   
11-7.1   Property Management Board
   
11-7.2   Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate
   
11-7.3   Powers and Duties of Commissioner; Superintendent of Markets
   
11-7.4   Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, Powers and Duties
   
11-7.5   Assistant Commissioner of Property Management to Have Custody of
Faneuil Hall
   
11-7.6   Lease of Stalls by Assistant Commissioner of Property Management
   
11-7.7   Care of Dillaway House by Assistant Commissioner of Property
Management
   
11-7.8   Designation of Ward-Rooms
   
11-7.9   Assistant Commissioner to Have Custody of Ward-Rooms
   
11-7.10   Permits for Ward-Rooms; Revocation, Conditions
   
11-7.11   Allotment of Spaces Within City Hall Garage
   
11-7.12   Prompt Release of Information in Cases of Stranger Sexual Assault
   
11-7.13   Transfer of Functions Between the Public Facilities Department and
the Property Management Department
   
11-7.14   City Hall Plaza, Rental of
11-8   LIBRARY DEPARTMENT AND TRUSTEES OF THE PUBLIC LIBRARY
   
11-8.1   Duties of Trustees
   
11-8.2   Annual Report
11-9   CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
   
11-9.1   Department of Civil Defense Established
   
11-9.2   Director of Civil Defense
   
11-9.3   Civil Defense Advisory Council
   
11-9.4   Police Aid to Other Cities and Towns in Event of Riots and Other
Violence Therein
   
11-9.5   Termination of Ordinance
   
11-9.6   Definition
11-10   PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
   
11-10.1   Overview
   
11-10.2   Dog Recreation Spaces
   
11-10.2(a)   Introduction and Purpose
   
11-10.2(b)   Definitions
   
11-10.2(c)   Applicant for a Dog Recreation Space
   
11-10.2(d)   Procedure for Establishing and Designating a Dog Recreation Space
   
11-10.2(e)   Managing a Dog Recreation Space
   
11-10.2(f)   Use of a Dog Recreation Space
   
11-10.2(g)   Education Program
   
11-10.2(h)   Violations and Penalties
   
11-10.2(i)   Suspension, Forfeiture and/or Revocation of Designation as Dog
Recreation Space and Closure
   
11-10.2(j)   Limited Exception of Subsection 16-1.9
   
11-10.2(k)   Regulatory Authority
   
11-10.2(l)   Enforcement Authority
   
11-10.2(m)   Severability
   
11-10.2(n)   Harmonious Construction
   
11-10.2(o)   Savings Clause
   
11-10.2(p)   Sunset Clause
   
11-10.2(q)   Implementation
11-11   VOTER REGISTRATION ACCESSIBILITY
   
11-11.1   Purpose
   
11-11.2   Availability of Voter Registration Forms
11-1   BOSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT.
11-1.1   Weekly Report by Police Commissioner.
   (A)   The Police Commissioner shall prepare and furnish, each week to the
City Council, a report on the number of crimes reported in the city during the
previous week in the following categories: shooting incidents and homicides
involving minors, meaning anyone age 17 or under, as victims and/or
perpetrators categorized by age, gender, race, ethnicity and national origin,
and specifying whether the minor involved was the victim and/or perpetrator,
viz, murder, rape, assault, armed robbery, breaking and entering of homes and
purse-snatching, tabulated by Police district and providing, in addition to the
district number, the geographical area of the city comprising the district, and
within each district tabulated according to the several tours of duty. However,
the reporting of shooting incidents and homicides involving minors may be
contingent on whether a formal arrest occurs. The Police Commissioner shall, in
preparing each report, also include cumulative reported totals of the crimes
enumerated above, tabulated as aforesaid, for the year to date of making the
report.
   (B)   The Police Commissioner shall also prepare and furnish each week to
the Mayor and to the Boston City Council a report on the deployment of sworn
Police Officers to each district by shift. This report shall include the use of
overtime, leave taken by Officers and Officers assigned to each district but
assigned out to other districts.
(Ord. 1973 c. 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 1; CBC 1985 11-1.1; Ord. 1988 c. 14; Ord.
2009 c. 5)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.32; Ord. ss 17-4.5, ss 17-4.6
11-1.2   Shotguns in Police Vehicles; Training of Officers.
   All Boston Police vehicles shall be equipped with shotguns and shotgun
racks. All Boston Police Officers shall participate in a training course for
the handling and operation of shotguns. All Boston Police Officers shall be
awarded a certificate of training from the appropriate Police officials at the
completion of such training.
(Ord. 1974 c. 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 2; CBC 1985 11-1.2)
Editor’s note:
   This ordinance was declared invalid in O’Neil v. White, Suffolk Superior
Court No. 683216 (1974).
11-1.3   Minimum Number of Marked Police Vehicles Required.
   At all times in the various Police districts of the city, there shall be in
use on duty no less than 50% plus one of all the marked Police vehicles which
were assigned to such districts on June 15, 1971.
(Ord. 1973 c. 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 3; CBC 1985 11-1.3)
11-1.4   Police Vehicles to Be Manned Full-Time.
   All Boston Police vehicles, marked or unmarked, shall be manned 24 hours a
day by two Boston Police Officers.
(Ord. 1973 c. 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 4; CBC 1985 11-1.4)
11-1.5   Minimum Salaries for Patrol Officers.
   (A)   Effective as of January 1, 1972, the minimum annual compensation of
Patrol Officer members of the Boston Police Department of the city, in the
classifications and salary grades as herein set forth, shall be not less than
the following:
      (1)   For the first year of service: $10,500;
      (2)   For the second year of service: $11,500; and
      (3)   For the third and each succeeding year of service: $12,500.
   (B)   “Service”, under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to commence
with the date the appointee Patrol Officer is first assigned to duty and
continue until death, retirement or termination of employment of the appointee.
In determining years of service, credit shall be given for all time or period
of service to December 31, 1971. All step increments in higher salary grade
shall become due at intervals of a year’s service at the beginning of the
second and third years of service and shall commence on the Sunday preceding
the day on which such step increments shall become due.
(Ord. 1972 c. 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 5; CBC 1985 11-11.5)
11-1.6   Minimum Number of Police Officers on the Boston Police Department.
   On or before July 1, 1979, the size of the Boston Police Department shall be
increased by the employment of a sufficient number of Patrol Officers so as to
bring the force to strength of not less than 2,300 Police Officers. On or
before July 1, 1980, the size of the Boston Police Department shall be
increased by the employment of a sufficient number of Patrol Officers so as to
bring the force to strength of not less than 2,500. Thereafter, additional
Officers shall be hired, from time to time, as needed so as to ensure that the
number of Police Officers on the force shall, at no time, be less than 2,500.
(Ord. 1979 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-1.6)
11-1.7   Crime Prevention Surveys.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Police Commissioner shall designate such personnel as he or she
finds appropriate to undertake crime prevention surveys for elderly/handicapped
multi-family housing developments and student housing, as provided for in
Sections 9-11 and 9-12, as amended. Such personnel shall be certified as Crime
Prevention Officers by the Criminal Justice Training Council or any future body
providing similar certification. Surveys for elderly/handicapped developments
shall be carried out on a phased basis parallel to that of the notices sent
under Subsection 9-11.2 by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department; surveys for student housing shall be carried out upon receipt of a
request from the landlord of student housing. Such surveys shall be completed
within 30 days of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention
survey.
      (2)   Each crime prevention survey shall be on a form which is jointly
developed by the Police Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department. Each completed survey shall include findings as to the
security needs of the tenants/occupants of the housing and neighbors of such
housing and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through existing
or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers, resident
managers, security stations, security systems or other equipment, personnel or
programs. Each survey shall also include a one-page summary, on official Boston
Police Department stationery, itemizing the elements recommended.
      (3)   No fee shall be assessed to the landlord by the Police Commissioner
for conducting the crime prevention survey, but such survey shall be carried
out as public service to the residents of the city. Upon completion of each
crime prevention survey, the Police Commissioner shall ensure that a copy of
the same is provided to the landlord and to the Commissioner of the
Inspectional Services Department within 30 days of receipt of the landlord’s
written request.
      (4)   The Police Commissioner shall designate personnel to assist the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department in the assessment of the
adequacy of security plans, as provided for in Subsections 9-11.4 and 9-12.3,
as amended.
   (B)   Non-liability of the city. The provisions of this Subsection shall not
be construed to establish any duty on the part of the city greater than the
city’s general public duty to protect its citizens’ health, safety, security
and well-being. No determination by the Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department or the Boston Police Department as to the adequacy of a
landlord’s security measures shall be construed as a warranty or guarantee of
such security, and the sole responsibility for ensuring that security measures
are adequate to protect occupants and neighbors from foreseeable harm or risk
shall rest and remain with the owner of such property.
   (C)   Severability. The provisions of this Subsection are severable and if
any provision, or portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions
which shall remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 11-1.7; Ord. 1989 c. 4 §§ 2-4; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 2-4; Ord. 2010 c. 12)
11-1.8   Civilian Fingerprinting and Criminal History Records Checks for
Certain Licenses.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in the M.G.L. Chapter 6, Section
172B½, the Boston Police Department shall establish, by rule or regulation, a
civilian fingerprinting system for the purpose of conducting commonwealth and
national criminal history records checks of persons applying for certain
licensures within the city. Any person applying for a license for the following
activities within the city is required to submit with the application a full
set of fingerprints taken by the Boston Police Department within six months
prior to the date of application:
      (1)   Hawking and peddling (Section 16-2);
      (2)   Operation of a taxicab or other private vehicle for hire
(Subsection 16-15.5);
      (3)   Operation of a sight seeing vehicle (St. 1931, Chapter 399);
      (4)   Operating as a commercial bicycle messenger (St. 1998, Chapter
302);
      (5)   Pawning (M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 70) or collecting of or
dealing in and as a keeper of shop for the purchase, sale or barter of junk,
old metals or second-hand articles (Subsection 17-4.1);
      (6)   Appointment as Special Police Officer (St. 1898, Chapter 282); and
      (7)   Appointment as a Boston Constable (Subsection 2-7.2).
   (B)   The Boston Police Department will transmit the fingerprints to the
commonwealth’s Police Identification Unit through the Criminal History Systems
Board (“CHSB”), or its successor, for a commonwealth criminal records check and
for a national criminal records check by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(“FBI”). The results of a criminal records check shall be communicated to the
licensing authority for the sole purpose of evaluating the fitness of the
person applying for the license.
   (C)   The Boston Police Department shall render a fitness determination
based upon the results of the records checks and communicate its fitness
determination to the licensing authority. In rendering a fitness determination,
the Boston Police Department shall indicate whether the license applicant has
been convicted of, or is under pending indictment for, a crime which bears upon
his or her ability or fitness to serve in the capacity of the license and any
felony or misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled
substances or was a sex-related offense.
   (D)   A person applying for a license and who is required to submit a full
set of fingerprints to the licensing authority, pursuant to division (A) above,
may request and receive a copy of his or her criminal history records from the
Boston Police Department. Should the license applicant seek to amend or correct
his or her record, he or she must contact the CHSB, or its successor, for a
state record or the FBI for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its
file.
   (E)   The fee charged to the applicant by the Boston Police Department for
the purpose of enforcing this Section shall be $50 for each application. A
portion of the fee, as specified in M.G.L. Chapter 6, Section 172B½, shall be
deposited into the Firearms Fingerprint Identity Verification Trust Fund, and
the remainder of the fee may be retained by the Boston Police Department for
costs associated with the administration of the fingerprinting system.
(CBC 1985 11-1.8; Ord. 2011 c. 2)
11-1.9   Boston Trust Act.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIL IMMIGRATION DETAINER REQUEST. A non-mandatory request issued by an
authorized federal Immigration Officer under 8 U.S.C. § 287.7 to a local law
enforcement official to maintain custody of an individual for a period not to
exceed 48 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, and advise the
authorized federal Immigration Officer prior to the release of that individual.
      CONVICTED. A state of having been proved guilty in a judicial proceeding,
unless the conviction has been expunged or vacated pursuant to applicable law.
      ELIGIBLE FOR RELEASE FROM CUSTODY. The individual may be released from
custody because any of the following conditions has occurred:
         (a)   All criminal charges against the individual have been dropped or
dismissed;
         (b)   The individual has been acquitted of all criminal charges filed
against him or her;
         (c)   The individual has served all the time required for his or her
sentence;
         (d)   The individual has posted a bond, or has been released on his or
her own recognizance;
         (e)   The individual has been referred to pre-trial diversion
services; and
         (f)   The individual is otherwise eligible for release under
commonwealth or local law.
      ICE ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT. A warrant issued by a federal Immigration
Officer, not a Judicial Officer, that does not confer detention authority on a
local jurisdiction.
      ICE-HSI. The Department of Homeland Security Investigations division of
ICE whose purpose is to work alone or in concert with other federal,
commonwealth and local law enforcement to investigate and enforce laws
prohibiting human smuggling and trafficking; narcotics and weapons smuggling
and trafficking; transnational gang activity; cybercrimes; money laundering,
financial crimes, bulk cash smuggling; document and benefit fraud; human rights
violations; commercial fraud and intellectual property theft; export
enforcement; and international art and antiquities theft.
      IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT or ICE. The federal Agency whose
enforcement and removal division enforces federal immigration laws, including
issuance and action on civil detainers and detainer requests.
      IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT. Identifying, arresting, detaining or assisting
in the arrest or detention of any person solely on the basis of their
immigration status or a suspected violation of federal civil immigration law.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. Any City Department, or Officer or employee of
a City Department, authorized to enforce criminal statutes, regulations or
local ordinances; operate jails or maintain custody of individuals in jails;
and operate juvenile detention facilities or maintain custody of individuals in
juvenile detention facilities.
      PERSONAL INFORMATION. Any information that is maintained by an Agency
that identifies or describes an individual, that can be used, either alone or
in combination with other information, to identify individual subjects, such as
his or her name, Social Security number, physical description, home address
and/or work address.
   (B)   Detainer requests. A law enforcement official shall not detain an
individual solely on the basis of a civil immigration detainer request or an
ICE administrative warrant after the individual is eligible for release from
custody, unless ICE has a criminal warrant, issued by a Judicial Officer, for
the individual.
   (C)   Reporting. No later than December 31 of each year, the Boston Police
Commissioner shall submit a report to the City Clerk, and the Clerk shall
forward the report to the Mayor of the city and shall docket the report and
include the docket on the agenda of the next-occurring meeting of the Boston
City Council. The report shall include the following information for the
preceding 12-month period:
      (1)   A statistical breakdown of the total number of civil immigration
detainer requests lodged with the city’s law enforcement officials, organized
by the reason(s) given for the request;
      (2)   A statistical breakdown of the total number of individuals that
city law enforcement officials detained pursuant to division (C)(2) above,
organized by the reason(s) supporting the detention;
      (3)   The total number of individuals transferred to ICE custody; and
      (4)   A statistical breakdown of the total cost reimbursements received
from the federal government pursuant to division (B) above, organized by
individual case.
   (D)   Law enforcement.
      (1)   A law enforcement official or an employee of a City Department,
Agency or Commission, shall not:
         (a)   Use Agency or Department monies or personnel to interrogate,
detain or arrest persons for immigration enforcement purposes, that are
otherwise the responsibility of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Agency, including any of the following:
            1.   Inquiring of an individual his or her immigration status;
            2.   Detaining an individual solely on the basis of a civil
immigration detainer request;
            3.   Providing personal information, as defined in division (A)
above, or regarding a person’s release date or time to the federal Immigration
and Customs Enforcement Agency;
            4.   Providing personal information, as defined in division (A)
above, or regarding a person’s release date or time to ICE-HSI solely for the
purpose of enforcing civil violations of United States immigration laws;
            5.   Making arrests based solely on ICE administrative warrants
including administrative warrants after the individual is eligible for release
from custody; and
            6.   Performing the functions of an Immigration Officer.
         (b)   Transfer an individual to immigration authorities unless
authorized by a judicial warrant or other judicial order.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the limitations in division (A) above, this Section
does not prevent any Boston law enforcement official or an employee of a City
Department, Agency or Commission from doing any of the following:
         (a)   Investigating, enforcing or detaining upon reasonable suspicion
of, or arresting for a criminal violation of, 8 U.S.C. § 1326(a) that may be
subject to the enhancement specified in 8 U.S.C. § 1326(b)(2) and that is
detected during an unrelated Boston Police activity. Any arrests executed under
this provision by any Boston law enforcement official shall be included in the
annual report of the Boston Police Commissioner to the City Clerk, in
accordance with division (C) above;
         (b)   Responding to a request from ICE-HSI for information about a
specific person’s criminal history, including, but not limited to, previous
criminal arrests, convictions or CORI, where otherwise permitted by
commonwealth law;
         (c)   Conducting enforcement or investigative duties associated with
partnerships with federal authorities or task forces, including the sharing of
confidential information with the Boston Police or other Agencies for purposes
of joint investigations, so long as the primary purpose of the partnership or
task force is not to enforce civil violations of United States immigration
laws;
         (d)   Certifying an individual who has been identified as a potential
crime or trafficking victim for a T or U Visa pursuant to 8 U.S.C. §§ 1101(a)
(15)(T) or 1101(a)(15)(U);
         (e)   Enforcing 18 U.S.C. § 922(d)(5); and
         (f)   An inquiry into an individual’s citizenship status by the Boston
Elections Commission to determine their eligibility to vote in local,
commonwealth and federal elections.
      (3)   This Section does not prohibit or restrict any government Agency
from complying with 8 U.S.C. §§ 1373 and 1644.
      (4)   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Boston Police from
asserting its own jurisdiction over criminal law enforcement matters.
      (5)   Within six months of the passage of this Section, the Boston Police
Department shall incorporate the requirements of this Section into its regular
training for all Officers.
(CBC 1985 11-1.9; Ord. 2019 c. 9)
11-1.10   Restricting the Use of Chemical Crowd Control Agents and Kinetic
Impact Projectiles.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to restrict the use of
chemical crowd control agents and kinetic impact projectiles in order to
protect residents of Boston from the indiscriminate, dangerous and even fatal
impacts of such devices, especially during lawful protests and/or
demonstrations. These devices can have significant impacts on both the physical
and mental well-being of residents that choose to exercise their First
Amendment rights by participating in demonstrations, as well as innocent
bystanders.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOSTON POLICE OFFICERS. All Cadets, Patrol Officers, Officers, Detectives
and Superintendents of the Boston Police Department.
      BPD. The Boston Police Department.
      CHEMICAL CROWD CONTROL AGENT. Chemical compounds in any form that cause
irritation to the eyes, mouth, throat, lungs or skin, including, but not
limited to, tear gas, pepper spray, mace, inert smoke, pepper pellets and
pepper balls. These chemical compounds may include, but are not limited to,
chloroacetophenone (CN), chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile (CS), chloropicrin
(PS), bromobenzylcyanide (CA), dibenzoxazepine (CR), oleoresin capsicum (OC)
and combinations thereof.
      KINETIC IMPACT PROJECTILE. An item or instrument fired from a gun or
launcher intended to disorient and/or incapacitate and inflict pain without
penetrating the skin, including, but not limited to, rubber bullets, sponge
grenades, stun grenades, concussion grenades, flash grenades or flash-bangs,
beanbag rounds, Super-Sock rounds, wax bullets and plastic bullets.
      OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS. Any Law Enforcement Officers who are not
Boston Police Officers but who are engaged in law enforcement activities within
the city.
   (C)   Restriction on the use of chemical crowd control agents and kinetic
impact projectiles.
      (1)   Restriction in certain circumstances. Subject to the limitations
set forth in division (C)(2) below, Boston Police Officers and other Law
Enforcement Officers working in the city, to the extent permissible by law,
shall not use a kinetic impact projectile or a chemical crowd control agent
against any person or persons engaged in a protest, demonstration or other
gathering of any kind involving more than ten persons.
      (2)   Exceptions and exemptions. Kinetic impact projectiles and/or
chemical crowd control agents may be deployed if:
         (a)   An on-scene supervisor at the rank of Deputy Superintendent or
higher specifically authorizes such use in response to specific ongoing acts of
violence or destruction of property that the on-scene supervisor has personally
witnessed and has determined cannot be controlled or quelled through any other
methods, and has determined that no other reasonable methods of de-escalation
will be successful in preventing or controlling such acts; and
         (b)   1.   The on-scene supervisor witness who authorizes such use, or
an Officer of equal or higher rank, has given at least two separate warnings
over a loudspeaker system:
               a.   Directing the persons involved in the gathering to
disperse, after ensuring that people have a way to exit after a warning is
issued;
               b.   Notifying all who could be affected that a failure to
disperse will result in the use of a specific kinetic impact projectile or
chemical crowd control agent that must be announced; and
               c.   Notifying all who could be affected that the specific
kinetic impact projectile or chemical crowd control agent will be deployed
within a clearly defined period of time.
            2.   Such warnings must be at least two minutes apart, and there
must be two minutes after the second warning has been fully read before any use
of the specifically announced kinetic impact projectile and/or chemical crowd
control agent.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Boston Police Department shall take appropriate steps to
implement this Section forthwith, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this Section in a prominent and visible
location in all Police Stations within the city;
         (b)   Notifying all other law enforcement Agencies that may operate
within the city about this Section and supplying a copy of the Ordinance to
each of said Agencies; and
         (c)   Incorporating the limitations on the use of force set forth in
division (C) above into Officer training regarding the use of less lethal and
non-lethal force in policing.
      (2)   Any violation of this Section constitutes an injury and any person
may institute proceedings for injunctive relief, declaratory relief or writ of
mandamus in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce this Section. An
action instituted under this division (D)(2) shall be brought against the city
and, if necessary to effectuate compliance with this Section, any other
governmental Agency subject to this Section.
      (3)   In any civil or criminal action brought under any commonwealth or
federal statute or constitutional provision arising out of the use of force by
any Law Enforcement Officer within the city, the prohibition contained in
division (C) above shall be deemed to be the clearly established law of the
city, and any violation of that prohibition may be considered unlawful.
      (4)   Any person injured or harmed as a result of a violation of this
Section may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction seeking
damages, reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs and any other relief that the
court may deem appropriate. A prevailing plaintiff injured or harmed by a
violation of this Section may be entitled to recover damages in the amount of
three times their actual damages. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to
limit any individual’s rights under commonwealth or federal law.
      (5)   All uses of any kinetic impact projectile or any chemical crowd
control agent and all violations of this Section by any Boston Police Officer
or any other Law Enforcement Officer working in the city shall be reported in
writing, including the name of the member of law enforcement, to all city
government Agencies and Departments which have any oversight responsibilities
for the Boston Police Department, and to all commonwealth Agencies which have
any oversight responsibilities for law enforcement Agencies or Departments.
Such reports shall be a matter of public record to be published at least
annually by the city and all such reports shall be made freely available upon
request by any member of the public.
      (6)   Immediately following the use of any kinetic impact projectile or
any chemical crowd control agent by any Boston Police Officer or any other Law
Enforcement Officer working in the city, all body camera footage relating to
the use of such weapons must be maintained and preserved by the BPD, and must
be produced to the Boston Office of Police Accountability and Transparency and
to any commonwealth Agency which has any oversight responsibilities for Law
Enforcement Agencies or Departments within ten business days.
(CBC 1985 11-1.10; Ord. 2021 c. 5)
11-1.11   Report on Gun Trafficking in the City.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Subsection is to create an annual study
and report from the Boston Police Department with data on the flow of firearms
and review of ways that illegal firearms are transported into the city, which
will help law enforcement and policymakers in determining action in stemming
the flow of illegal firearms.
   (B)   Reporting. The Boston Police Department shall coordinate with
Commonwealth Police, the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Office, the Suffolk County
District Attorney’s Office, and all other relevant municipal agencies to
conduct a study on reducing the flow of firearms into the city and shall submit
a report to the Mayor, the Boston City Council and the Boston Public Health
Commission no later than three months after passage and annually thereafter.
Such study and report shall include the following information for the preceding
calendar year:
      (1)   For each firearm seized or surrendered in the city and obtained by
the Police Department:
         (a)   Whether the firearm was connected to a crime;
         (b)   Where the firearm originated, including where it was first sold,
manufactured, imported or assembled when available;
         (c)   The date such firearm was seized or surrendered and the date
such firearm was last sold legally;
         (d)   The location of such seizure, including latitude and longitude
if available, but in all cases at least as specific as the nearest
intersection; provide the age of the person with the gun when available;
         (e)   The make, model, type and serial number of such firearm;
         (f)   The manufacturer or importer of such firearm;
         (g)   Whether the firearm was a ghost gun or a firearm created using a
three-dimensional printer, and if so, the entities that produced such firearm
or parts thereof;
         (h)   The dealer of such firearm and whether such dealer was licensed
when available; and
         (i)   Whether the firearm was registered in any state or federal
database, including the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record.
      (2)   A review of trends regarding the ways firearms are illegally
transported into the city, including through roadways on and connected to the
interstate and sea ports or bodies of water based on available information; and
      (3)   If disclosure of any information specified in division (B)(1) above
is prohibited by law, such study and report shall identify the information
being withheld and the reason therefore, and shall, instead of such withheld
information, include aggregate data to the extent available. Such study and
report need not include information about any firearm obtained through a gun
buy-back program or where disclosure would compromise the safety of the public
or Police Officers or could otherwise compromise ongoing law enforcement
investigations or operations. Such reports shall include the total number of
seizures for which reporting was withheld due to a pending criminal
investigation, and upon completion of such investigations the information
relating to such seizures shall be reflected in a subsequent report.
      (4)   The Boston Police Department shall also include key takeaways from
the information provided in its report and any policy recommendations they have
related to that information and that they believe can serve to address gun
trafficking.
   (C)   Implementation. This Subsection takes effect immediately after
passage.
   (D)   Severability. If any provision of this Subsection shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2023 c. 12)
11-2   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS.
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinances codified herein include portions of Ordinance No. 1982 c.
11.
11-2.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL STATION OPERATING COMPANY. A company equipped to receive a security
alarm signal from each of its customers and which then transmits to the Boston
Police Department (“BPD”) the location of any such alarm the central station
operating company receives.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, or his or
her designee.
   FALSE ALARM. The transmittal of a signal to the Boston Police Department,
whether because of human or mechanical error, and whether through a central
station operating company or directly, even though there is no person entering
or attempting to enter, without authorization, in or on real property protected
by a security alarm system.
   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM. An electronic or mechanical device used to warn of a
person entering or attempting to enter, without authorization, in or on real
property.
   SECURITY ALARM USER. A person, company, corporation or other entity
utilizing a security alarm system to protect his or her or its real property
located in the city.
(CBC 1985 11-2.1; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.2   Alarm Information List.
   (A)   The Commissioner shall create and maintain a list known as the Alarm
Information List. Each central station operating company shall, as set forth
herein, provide the information for said list to the Commissioner as to all of
its customers who have a security alarm system. A security alarm user, if his
or her or its security alarm system is not connected to a central station
operating company, shall provide the information for said list to the
Commissioner as to said user.
      (1)   The Alarm Information List shall consist of the following
information from a central station operating company:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the central station
operating company;
         (b)   The location of the premises where each such customer’s security
alarm system is located;
         (c)   The name, address and home and work telephone numbers of each
such customer;
         (d)   The names, addresses and home and work telephone numbers of at
least two persons who can be contacted 24 hours a day who are authorized by the
central station operating company or the customer to respond to a security
alarm signal and who have access to the premises from where the security alarm
signal is emitting; and
         (e)   Such other information as the Commissioner may require.
      (2)   The Alarm Information List shall consist of the following
information as to a security alarm user whose security alarm system is not
connected to a central station operating company:
         (a)   The location of the premises where the security alarm system is
located;
         (b)   The name, address and home and work telephone numbers of the
security alarm user;
         (c)   The names, addresses and home and work telephone numbers of at
least two persons who can be contacted 24 hours a day who are authorized by the
security alarm user to respond to a security alarm signal and who have access
to the premises from where the security alarm signal is emitting; and
         (d)   Such other information as the Commissioner may require.
   (B)   The Commissioner may at any time send a notice of the requirements of
this Section to a central station operating company or to a security alarm
user. A central station operating company shall comply with the requirements of
this Subsection within 60 days after the Commissioner has sent it such notice.
Similarly, a security alarm user whose security alarm system is not connected
to a central station operating company shall comply with the requirements of
this Subsection within 60 days after the Commissioner has sent him, her or it
such notice. If such a central station operating company or security alarm user
fails to comply with this Subsection, the Commissioner may assess a fine of $50
for each day of noncompliance.
(CBC 1985 11-2.2; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.3   Updating Information.
   Every central station operating company and every security alarm user whose
security alarm system is not connected to a central station operating company
shall be responsible for updating the information herein required to be
provided to the Commissioner. If the information provided changes, said central
station operating company or security alarm user shall provide the Commissioner
with the updated information. If such a central station operating company or
security alarm user fails to comply with this Subsection, the Commissioner may
assess a fine of $50.
(CBC 1985 11-2.3; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.4   False Alarm Assessment Schedule.
   (A)   Any security alarm user whose security alarm system transmits to the
Boston Police Department more than two false alarms in a calendar year, whether
through a central station operating company or directly, shall be assessed a
fine pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 for the third and any subsequent
false alarm according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Third false alarm: $50;
      (2)   Fourth false alarm: $100; and
      (3)   Fifth false alarm: $200.
   (B)   For the sixth and any subsequent false alarm, the fine shall be $200
per violation, each day after any such false alarm to be considered a new
violation. A security alarm user shall be assessed said $200 per day until he
or she can demonstrate to the Commissioner that the causes of the false alarms
have been remedied.
(CBC 1985 11-2.4; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.5   Municipal Charges Lien.
   If a fine assessed for a false alarm pursuant to Subsection 11-2.4 hereof
has not been paid by the due date, the Commissioner shall impose a lien on the
real property where such false alarm occurred pursuant to the provisions of
M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 58 and shall notify the security alarm user in
writing of such lien. The provisions of this Subsection shall apply to fines
that remain unpaid or that become due and payable on or after the effective
date of this Section.
(CBC 1985 11-2.5; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.6   Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Automatic Telephone Devices.
   Ninety days after the passage of this Section, no security alarm system
shall be equipped with a tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device
which will transmit an alarm signal to the 911 emergency system or any
telephone lines of the Boston Police Department. If a security alarm user fails
to comply with this Subsection, the Commissioner may assess a fine of $50.
(CBC 1985 11-2.6; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.7   Testing Equipment.
   All security alarm users must notify the Commissioner in advance of any
testing of equipment. Failure to notify the Commissioner in advance of a
testing of equipment shall constitute a false alarm and be subject to the
assessment schedule contained herein in Subsection 11-2.5.
(CBC 1985 11-2.7; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.8   Audible Bell or Horn.
   All security alarm systems which use an audible bell or horn shall be
equipped with an automatic shut-off device which will deactivate the security
alarm system within ten minutes of its sounding. All security alarm users with
an audible bell or horn shall install and maintain such automatic shut-off
device within 90 days of the effective date of this Section if not already so
equipped.
(CBC 1985 11-2.8; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.9   Appeal Procedures.
   Every central station operating company or security alarm user who is
aggrieved by an action taken by the Commissioner under this Section may file an
appeal to a panel composed of the Commissioner, the Boston Public Works
Commissioner, and the Boston Transportation Commissioner, or their designees.
Such appeal must be in writing and must be received by the Commissioner within
ten days after the aggrieved person has been sent notice of such action. After
notice to such owner, the panel shall hold a hearing, after which it shall
issue a decision in which it affirms, annuls or modifies the action taken by
the Commissioner, giving its reasons therefor. The Commissioner shall send his
or her decision to the aggrieved person within ten days after the hearing. The
decision of the panel shall be a final administrative decision. The aggrieved
person shall have 30 days from the date of the written decision to seek
judicial review in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(CBC 1985 11-2.9; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.10   Regulations and Enforcement.
   The Commissioner may promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to
implement this Section.
(CBC 1985 11-2.10; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.11   Deposit in the General Fund.
   All fines assessed herein shall be payable to the city for deposit in the
General Fund.
(CBC 1985 11-2.11; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-2.12   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be severable, and if any
of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions.
(CBC 1985 11-2.12; Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
11-3   NEIGHBORHOOD AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
11-3.1   Department, Commissioner, Term.
   There shall be in the city a Department known as the Neighborhood and Human
Services Department (hereinafter called “the Department”) which shall be under
the charge of an Officer known as the Commissioner of Neighborhood and Human
Services (hereafter called “the Commissioner”) who shall be appointed by the
Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next
biennial election at which a Mayor is elected.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.1)
11-3.2   Duties of Commissioner.
   The Commissioner shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the Department, and the Agencies included
within the Department, and shall receive such salary as may be fixed, from time
to time, by ordinance. The Commissioner may, in accordance with applicable law,
and within the limits of the funds appropriated therefor, appoint and remove
such subordinates as the work of the Department may require and may make such
expenditure, within the limits of the funds appropriated therefor, as may be
necessary to execute effectively the purposes of the Department and the
Agencies included within the Department.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.2)
11-3.3   Purpose of the Department.
   It shall be the purpose of the Department to administer the Agencies
included within it and to conduct continuing observation, study, an evaluation
of such Agencies with a view to making specific annual recommendations to the
Mayor and Boston City Council as to whether such Agencies are meeting the needs
of the people within the city neighborhoods, and as to any changes in the
number of organizations of such Agencies so as to better serve the people of
such neighborhoods.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.3)
11-3.4   Agencies Within the Department.
   Any Agency, purporting to exist as a City Agency on July 1, 1978, which was
funded by a Council appropriation order as a City Agency separate and apart
from the Mayor’s Office, even though such Agency might bear the words “Mayor’s
Office of” in its title, except the Office of Fiscal Affairs, which is hereby
created and placed within and made a part of the Administrative Services
Department, and the Office of Property Equalization, which is hereby created
and placed in and made a part of the Assessing Department, and except the so
called “Mayor’s Office of Communications”, which is hereby abolished, which is
funded to an extent of less than 50% of funds received by the city from the
United States of America, which was not created by law or ordinance, and which
continues to exist on the date on which this Section is in force, is hereby
created and shall be on the date on which this Section is in force, is hereby
created and shall be in and subject to the administrative control of the
Department. All such Agencies in the future shall not bear the words “Mayor’s
Office of” in their title.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.4)
11-3.5   Agencies Not Created by Law or Ordinance Abolished.
   Any Agency, purporting to be an Agency of the City, which was not expressly
created by law or ordinance, and which is not in this Department or in the
Department of Federally Funded Agencies (as created by Section 5-2, when this
Section is in force), shall be and hereby is abolished.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.5)
11-3.6   Annual Report.
   On or before October 1, 1980, and on or before October 1 of each succeeding
year, the Department shall report in writing to the Mayor and City Council.
Such reports shall include, but not be limited to, a report on all Agencies
within the Department, setting forth, in narrative style, their activities for
the previous fiscal year, the goals for the succeeding year, which of its
goals, as contained in its previous annual report were achieved, and which were
not, and the reasons for any failures. The report shall also contain the number
of employees, their salaries, job title and names, as well as any other
information that might be of relevance in judging the costs and benefits of the
Department to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.6)
11-3.7   Subordinate Positions.
   (A)   If for any reason any appointment to a position with the Department,
excepting that of Commissioner, is not made in accordance with the provisions
of M.G.L. Chapter 31, it shall be the responsibility of the Department to
forthwith establish and promulgate, subject to approval of the City Council,
rules and regulations which shall:
      (1)   Ensure that for all appointments to positions within the Department
made after June 30, 1978, every responsible effort shall be made to guarantee
any resident of the city, who is qualified for any such position, timely notice
that such position is available, reasonable opportunity to apply for such
position and equal opportunity with all qualified applicants for appointment.
All positions established and all appointments to positions in Agencies within
the Department, excepting that of Commissioner, made after June 30, 1978, are
hereby abolished and cancelled as of July 1, 1979, and if reestablished and new
appointments made, such appointments shall be made in accordance with this
Section;
      (2)   Ensure that all employees have equal opportunity for promotion, pay
increases or other job related benefits based on their work performance as such
employees;
      (3)   Ensure that any employee is protected in his or her employment
against any inequitable threat of demotion, loss of pay, job termination or
other unfair labor or discriminatory practice; and
      (4)   Ensure that any employee is given an opportunity to join a
collective bargaining unit, if he or she so chooses, without interference from
any official or employee of the city.
   (B)   In addition, it shall also be the responsibility of the Department to
forthwith establish and promulgate, subject to approval of the City Council,
job descriptions for all positions within Department which are not filled in
accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 31.
(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6; CBC 1985 11-3.7)
11-3.8   Creating the Office of Public Service.
   (A)   Creation of Department of Social Services. There is hereby created
within the Department of Neighborhood Services (hereinafter “NHS”) an Office to
be known as the Office of Public Service (hereinafter “OPS”) which shall be
under the charge of an Officer, known as the Director, appointed by the
Commissioner of NHS who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed
upon him or her by law, and who shall receive an annual salary not to exceed
$29,000.
   (B)   Duties of Director. The Director may, subject to appropriations, from
time to time, establish within the Office such divisions as may be necessary
for the efficient and economical administration of the Office, and when
necessary for such purpose, he or she may abolish any such division, or he or
she may merge any two or more of them, and may abolish or merge any such other
administrative units within divisions as he or she may deem advisable. The
Director shall prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of the
Office, of the assignment of functions to its various administrative units, and
employees, and of the places at which and the methods whereby the public may
receive information or make requests.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Office of Public Services. The
Office of Public Service shall:
      (1)   Formulate, coordinate and implement municipal policies with respect
to neighborhood service delivery;
      (2)   Respond at the local level to complaints about the provisions of
services;
      (3)   Improve the delivery of services through close cooperation with
line Department personnel and through recommendations for Departmental change;
      (4)   Act as the advocate for increased citizen involvement in the
affairs of the municipal government; and
      (5)   Provide needed direct services and information to the public in the
most convenient and accessible manner possible.
(Ord. 1980 c. 9; CBC 1985 11-3.8)
11-4   FIRE DEPARTMENT.
11-4.1   Fire Commissioner; Appointments.
   The Fire Department shall be under the charge of the Fire Commissioner, who
shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statute; and shall
appoint a Chief of Department, Assistant Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs, District Chiefs
and other Officers and fire fighters.
(St. 1895 c. 449 §§ 9-11; St. 1914 c. 795; Ord. 1946 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14
§ 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 75; CBC 1985 11-4.1)
11-4.2   Emergency Authority.
   In case of a conflagration or extreme emergency involving a fire hazard, the
Officer or Board having charge of the fire fighting force shall have full
authority to summon and keep on duty any or all of the members of the fire
fighting force while such conflagration or emergency continues.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 76; CBC 1985 11-4.2)
11-4.3   Assistance to Other Cities and Towns.
   The Commissioner may furnish, on such occasions and under such conditions as
he or she may determine, the assistance of the Department to another city, town
or Fire District, in extinguishing fire therein, or rendering any other
emergency aid or performing any detail. Agreements to provide such assistance
shall be reduced to writing and executed by the Commissioner on behalf of the
city in form approved by the Corporation Counsel. Copies of such agreements
shall be filed with the City Clerk and City Council.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 77; Ord. 1981 cs. 3, 18, 32;
Ord. 1982 cs. 20, 36; Ord. 1983 c. 14; CBC 1985 11-4.3)
11-4.4   Duties of Superintendent of Fire Alarm.
   The Commissioner shall appoint a Superintendent of Fire Alarm, who shall,
under the direction of the Commissioner, have the entire care and maintenance
of the wires, posts, machinery and appliances of the fire alarm telegraph and
telephone system; shall see that all such wires, posts, machinery and
appliances are maintained in good order and condition; and shall keep in his or
her office a map showing the locations of the same.
(Rev. Ord., 1961 c. 14 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 78; CBC 1985 11-4.4)
11-4.5   Monthly Report on Fires.
   The Commissioner shall make to the Mayor a monthly report of the location
and number of fires that have occurred in the preceding month, the cause of the
same and the amount of property destroyed thereby, and shall, in his or her
annual report, include a brief summary of such matters.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 79; CBC 1985 11-4.5)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.32
11-4.6   Notice for Hearing on Charges.
   The Commissioner shall, before calling before him or her a member of the
Department for a hearing on charges, give such member at least 24 hours’ notice
of the charges made, and shall allow him or her to be represented at the
hearing by Counsel.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 80; CBC 1985 11-4.6)
11-4.7   Minimum Salaries.
   (A)   Effective as of January 1, 1972, the minimum annual compensation of
fire fighter members of the Fire Department of the city, in the classification
and salary grades as herein set forth, shall be not less than the following:
      (1)   For the first year of service, $10,500;
      (2)   For the second year of service, $11,500; and
      (3)   For the third and each succeeding year of service, $12,500.
   (B)   SERVICE, under the provisions hereof shall be deemed to commence with
the date the appointee fire fighter is first assigned to duty and continue
until death, retirement or termination of employment of the appointee. In
determining years of service, credit shall be given for all time or period of
service prior to December 31, 1971. All step increments in higher salary grade
shall become due at intervals of a year’s service at the beginning of the
second and third years of service and shall commence on the Sunday preceding
the day on which such step increments shall become due.
(Ord. 1972 c. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 81; CBC 1985 11-4.7)
11-4.8   Notice to Fire Department Regarding Discontinuance of Electrical
Service to Residential Properties.
   (A)   (1)   Termination of electrical service. All utility companies
providing electrical service to residential properties within the city must
provide notification, in writing by email, to the Boston Fire Commissioner, or
his or her designee, no later than the close of business on the date of
termination of electric service supplying a public service meter in a multi-
family residential property. Utility companies shall only provide the address
of the particular residential property.
      (2)   Resumption of electrical service. All utility companies continuing
electrical service after a previous discontinuance of service must provide
notification, in writing by email, to the Boston Fire Department Commissioner,
or his or her designee, no more than 48 hours after electric service has
resumed at a public service meter in a multi-family residential property.
      (3)   Advisory guidelines upon termination of electrical service. In
addition to the notification requirements imposed on all utility companies
pursuant to 220 CMR 25.00, all utility companies must provide a termination of
electrical service advisory guideline as approved by the Commissioner of the
Boston Fire Department, to all residential properties upon termination of
electrical service.
      (4)   Penalties. Willful violation of this Section by any utility company
providing electrical service to a residential property within the city shall
result in a fine of $100 for the first violation; $200 for the second
violation; and $300 for every subsequent violation.
   (B)   Nothing in this Section shall limit M.G.L. Chapter 164, Section 124 or
the Department of Public Utilities regulations.
(CBC 1985 11-4.8; Ord. 2011 c. 14)
11-5   FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
11-5.1   Adoption By Reference.
   The Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 was adopted by Ord. 1979 Chapter 28
on July 18, 1979.
(Ord. 1979 c 28; CBC 1985 11-5.1; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 1; Ord. 1999 c. 7;
Ord. 2014 c. 7; Ord. 2016 c. 7; Ord. 2017 c. 3)
Editor’s note:
   Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 was printed as a separate document. A
copy of the Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 is available in the Office of
the City Clerk or Fire Department for use by the public. This ordinance is
included by reference without the full text of the Code included herein.
11-5.2   Blasting.
   (A)   Purpose. All blasting within the corporate limits of the city shall
comply with the requirements of 527 CMR, Board of Fire Prevention, Chapter
13.00, Explosives and Application Sections of the M.G.L. Chapter 148. In
addition, blasting shall comply with the following general and specific
requirements and standards for the protection of people and property, land and
other natural resources. Unless otherwise provided for in this regulation, the
provisions of 527 CMR 13.00 are applicable and must be complied with at all
times.
   (B)   Definitions. If any of the following definitions are inconsistent with
definitions that appear in 527 CMR 13.00, the definition in 527 CMR 13.00 is
the definition that governs.
      AIRBLAST. The airborne shock wave or acoustic transient generated by an
explosion.
      ALWAYS AND NEVER. List of precautions (IME Safety Library Publication No.
4) printed by the Institute of Makers of Explosives pertaining to the
transportation, storage, handling and use of explosive materials. Formerly
titled Do’s And Don’ts.
      AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (“ANSI”). A non-governmental
organization concerned with developing safety and health standards for
industry.
      AMERICAN TABLE OF DISTANCES. A quantity-distance table, prepared and
approved by IME, for storage of explosive materials to determine safe distances
from inhabited buildings, public highways, passenger railways and other stored
explosive materials.
      AMMONIUM NITRATE. The ammonium salt of nitric acid represented by the
formula NH4NO3.
      AMPERE. A unit of electrical current produced by 1 volt acting through a
resistance of 1 ohm.
      ANFO. A blasting agent (1.5D) containing no essential ingredients other
than prilled ammonium nitrate and fuel oil.
      ANSI. See American National Standards Institute.
      APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY. See competent authority.
      APPROVED, APPROVAL or AUTHORIZED. Terms which mean approved, approval or
by the authority having jurisdiction.
      ARTIFICIAL BARRICADE. An artificial mound or revetted wall of earth of a
minimum thickness of 3 feet.
      ATF. See Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
      AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION. The governmental Agency, Office or
individual responsible for approving equipment, an installation or a procedure.
      AUTHORIZED PERSON. An individual approved or assigned by management to
perform a specific duty or duties or to be at a specific location or locations.
      AVAILABLE ENERGY. The energy from an explosive material that is capable
of performing useful work.
      BACKBREAK. Rock broken beyond the limits of the last row of holes in a
blast, synonymous with overbreak.
      BARRICADED. The effective screening of a building containing explosive
materials from a magazine or other building, railway or highway by a natural or
an artificial barrier. A straight line from the top of any sidewall of the
building containing explosive materials to the eave line of any magazine or
other building or to a point 12 feet above the center of a railway or highway
shall pass through such barrier.
      BARRIER. A material object or objects that separates, keeps apart or
demarcates in a conspicuous manner such as cones, a warning sign or tape.
      BASE CHARGE. The main explosive charge in the base of a detonator.
      BATF. See Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
      BINARY EXPLOSIVE. See plosophoric materials.
      BENCH. A horizontal ledge from which holes are drilled vertically down
into the material to be blasted; benching is a process of excavating where a
highwall is worked in steps or lifts.
      BENCH HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the top of a bench to the floor
or to the top of the next lower bench.
      BLACK POWDER. A deflagrating or low explosive compound of an intimate
mixture of sulfur, charcoal and an alkali nitrate, usually potassium or sodium
nitrate.
      BLAST (BLASTING). The firing of explosive materials for such purposes as
breaking rock or other material, moving material or generating seismic waves.
      BLAST AREA. The area including the blast site and the immediate adjacent
area within the influence of flying rock missiles, gases and concussion.(**)
      BLASTHOLE. See drill hole and borehole.
      BLAST PATTERN. The plan of the drill holes as laid out for blasting; an
expression of the burden distance and the spacing distance and their
relationship to each other. Synonymous with drill pattern.
      BLAST SITE. The area in which explosive materials are being or have been
loaded and which includes all holes loaded or to be loaded for the same blast
and for a distance of 50 feet in all directions.(**)
      BLASTER. A person who holds a valid Certificate of Competency issued by
the commonwealth’s Fire Marshal and qualified to be in charge of and
responsible for the design, loading, and firing of a blast. A BLASTER is
recognized in his or her field as an explosives craftsperson.(**)
      BLASTING ACCESSORIES. Non-explosive devices and materials used in
blasting, such as, but not limited to, cap crimpers, tamping bags, blasting
machines, blasting galvanometers and cartridge punches.
      BLASTING AGENT. An explosive material which meets prescribed criteria for
insensitivity to initiation.
         (a)   For storage, 27 C.F.R. § 555.11 defines a BLASTING AGENT as any
material or mixture, consisting of fuel and oxidizer intended for blasting, not
otherwise defined as an explosive; provided that the finished product, as mixed
for use or shipment, cannot be detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap
(detonator) when unconfined (Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
Regulation).
         (b)   For transportation, 49 C.F.R. § 173.50, defines Class 1,
Division 1. 5 ( BLASTING AGENT) as a substance which has mass explosion hazard
but is so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of
transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions in transport.
      BLASTING CAP. See detonator.
      BLASTING CREW. A group of persons who assist the blaster in loading,
tying in and firing a blast.
      BLASTING GALVANOMETER. An electrical resistance instrument designed
specifically for testing electric detonators and circuits containing them. It
is used to check electrical continuity. Other acceptable instruments for this
purpose are blasting ohmmeters and blasters’ multi-meters.
      BLASTING LOG. A written record of information about a specific blast as
may be required by law or regulation.
      BLASTING MACHINE. An electrical or electromechanical device which
provides electrical energy for the purpose of energizing detonators in an
electric blasting circuit. Also used in reference to certain non-electric
systems (sometimes called exploder or battery).
      BLASTING MAT. A mat of woven steel wire, rope, scrap tires or other
suitable material or construction to cover blastholes for the purpose of
preventing flying rock missiles.
      BLASTING VIBRATIONS. The energy from a blast that manifests itself in
vibrations which are transmitted through the earth away from the immediate
blast area.
      BOOSTER. An explosive charge, usually of high detonation velocity and
detonation pressure, designed to be used in the explosive initiation sequence
between an initiator or primer and the main charge.
      BOREHOLE. A hole drilled in the material to be blasted, for the purpose
of containing an explosive charge, also called “blasthole” or “drill hole”.
      BREAKAGE. A term used to describe the site distribution of the rock
fragments created by a blast.
      BRIDGEWIRE. A resistance wire connecting the ends of the leg wires inside
an electric detonator and which is embedded in the ignition charge of the
detonator.
      BULK STRENGTH. The strength per unit volume of an explosive calculated
from its weight strength and density.
      BURDEN. The distance from the borehole and the nearest free face or the
distance between boreholes measured perpendicular to the spacing. Also the
total amount of material to be blasted by a given hole, usually measured in
cubic yards or tons.
      BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARMS. A bureau of the Department of
Treasury having responsibility for the promulgation and enforcement of
regulations related to the unlawful use of explosive materials under 18 U.S.C.
Ch. 40,§ 847.
      BUREAU OF MINES. See United States Bureau of Mines.
      CAP-SENSITIVE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL. An explosive material which will
detonate with an IME No. 8 Test Detonator when the material is unconfined.
      CAPACITOR DISCHARGE BLASTING MACHINE. A blasting machine in which
electrical energy, stored on a capacitor, is discharged into a blasting circuit
containing electric detonators.
      CARTRIDGE. An individual closed shell, bag or tube of circular cross-
section containing explosive material.
      CARTRIDGE COUNT (STICK COUNT). The number of cartridges in a case. A
standard case typically contains about 50 pounds of explosive material. Unless
otherwise specified, it refers to the number of 1¼ by 8 inch cartridges in a 50
pound case.
      CARTRIDGE STRENGTH. Synonymous with Bulk Strength.
      CFR. See Code of Federal Regulations.
      CIRCUIT. A completed path for conveying electrical current. See series
blasting.
      CIRCUIT, PARALLEL BLASTING CIRCUIT AND SERIES-IN-PARALLEL BLASTING
CIRCUIT. Some non-electric systems also use the word circuit.
      CLASS A EXPLOSIVES. A term formerly used by the United States Department
of Transportation to describe explosives which possess detonating or otherwise
maximum hazard. (Currently classified as Division 1.1 or 1.2 materials).
      CLASS B EXPLOSIVES. A term formerly used by the United States Department
of Transportation to describe explosives which possess flammable hazard.
(Currently classified as Division 1.3 materials.)
      CLASS C EXPLOSIVES. A term formerly used by the United States Department
of Transportation to describe explosives which contain Class A or Class B
explosives, or both as components but in restricted quantities. (Currently
classified Division 1.4 materials.)
      CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS. A codification of the general and permanent
rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive Departments and
Agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which
represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
      COLLAR. The mouth or opening of a borehole or shaft.
      COLUMN CHARGE. A charge of explosives in a blasthole in the form of a
long continuous unbroken column.
      COLUMN DEPTH/COLUMN HEIGHT. The length of each portion of a blasthole
filled with explosive materials.
      COMPETENT AUTHORITY. A national agency responsible under its national law
for the control or regulation of a particular aspect of the transportation of
hazardous materials. Also referred to as APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY (Ref. 49 C.F.R.
105.5).
      CONFINED DETONATION VELOCITY. The detonation velocity of an explosive
material in a substantial container or a borehole.
      CONNECTING WIRE. Wire used to extend the firing line or leg wires in an
electric blasting circuit.
      CONTINUITY CHECK (CIRCUIT CONTINUITY CHECK). A determination made by
instrumentation where possible, and visually in all cases, to show that an
initiation system is continuous and contains no breaks or improper connections
that could cause stoppage or failure of the initiation process.
      COUPLING. The degree to which an explosive fills the cross-section of a
borehole: bulk loaded explosives are completely coupled; untamped cartridges
are decoupled.
      CRITICAL DIAMETER. The minimum diameter for propagation of a detonation
wave at a stable velocity. CRITICAL DIAMETER is affected by conditions of
confinement, temperature and pressure on the explosive.
      CURRENT LEAKAGE. Portion of the firing current bypassing part of the
blasting circuit through unintended paths.
      CURRENT LIMITING DEVICE. An electric or electromechanical device that
limits:
         (a)   Current amplitude;
         (b)   Duration of current flow; or
         (c)   Total energy of the current delivered to an electric blasting
circuit.
      CUSHION BLASTING. A blasting technique used to produce competent slopes
or smooth walls. The cushion holes, fired after the main charge, have a reduced
spacing and employ decoupled charges.
      CUTOFF. A break in a path of detonation or initiation caused by
extraneous interference, such as flyrock or shifting ground.
      DATE-SHOT CODE. A code, required by federal regulation (BATF), applied by
manufacturers to the outside shipping containers, and, in many instances, to
the immediate containers of explosive materials to aid in their identification
and tracing.
      DAUTRICHE METHOD-DETONATION VELOCITY. A method of determining the
detonation velocity of an explosive material by employing detonating cord and a
witness plate.
      DC. Direct current.
      DECIBEL. A unit of air overpressure commonly used to measure airblast.
      DECK LOADING (DECKING). A method of loading blastholes in which the
explosive charges called decks or deck charges, in the same hole are separated
by stemming or an air cushion.
      DECK. An explosive charge that is separated from other charges in the
blasthole by stemming or an air cushion.
      DECOUPLING. The use of cartridged explosive products significantly
smaller in diameter than the diameter of the blasthole. DECOUPLING or the use
of decoupling charges is designed to reduce the charge concentration in the
blasthole and minimize stresses exerted on the walls of the blasthole.
      DEFLAGRATION. An explosive reaction such as a rapid combustion that moves
through an explosive material at a velocity less than the speed of sound in the
material.
      DELAY. A distinct pause of predetermined time between detonation or
initiation impulses, to permit the firing of explosive charges separately.
      DELAY BLASTING. The practice of initiating individual explosive decks,
boreholes or rows of boreholes at predetermined time intervals using delay
detonators, or other delaying means, as compared to instantaneous blasting
where all holes are fired essentially at the same time.
      DELAY DETONATOR. An electric or non-electric detonator used to introduce
a predetermined lapse of time between the application of a firing signal and
the detonation of the base charge.
      DELAY ELEMENT. The device in a delay detonator that produces the
predetermined time lapse between the application of a firing signal and
detonation.
      DELAY INTERVAL. The nominal time between the detonation of delay
detonators of adjacent periods in a delay series; the nominal time between
successive detonations in a blast.
      DELAY PERIOD. A designation given to a delay detonator to show its
relative or absolute delay time in a given series.
      DELAY SERIES. A series of delay detonators designed to satisfy specific
blasting requirements. There are basically two types of DELAY SERIES:
millisecond (“MS”) or short period (“SP”) with delay intervals on the order of
milliseconds and long period (“LP”) with delay time on the order of seconds.
      DELAY TAG. A tag, band or marker on a delay detonator that denotes the
delay series, delay period and/or delay time of the detonator.
      DELAY TIME. The lapse of time between the application of a firing signal
and the detonation of the base charge of a delay detonator.
      DENSITY. The mass of an explosive per unit of volume, usually expressed
in grams per cubic centimeter or pounds per cubic foot. (Also see specific
gravity.)
      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (“DOT”). A cabinet level agency of the
Federal Government. It has the responsibility for the comprehensive regulation
of transportation safety and issues regulations governing interstate shipments
of explosives and other hazardous materials.
      DETONATING CORD. A flexible cord containing a center core of high
explosive which may be used to initiate other high explosives.
      DETONATING CORD DOWNLINE. The Section of detonating cord that extends
within the blasthole from the ground surface down to the explosive charge.
      DETONATING CORD MS CONNECTORS. Nonelectric short-interval (millisecond)
delay devices for use in delaying blasts which are initiated by detonating
cord.
      DETONATING CORD TRUNKLINE. The line of detonating cord that is used to
connect and initiate other lines of detonating cord.
      DETONATION. An explosive reaction that moves through an explosive
material at a velocity greater than the speed of sound in the material.
      DETONATION PRESSURE. The pressure produced in the reaction zone of a
detonating explosive.
      DETONATION VELOCITY. The velocity at which a detonation progresses
through an explosive.
      DETONATOR. Any device containing an initiating or primary explosive that
is used for initiating detonation in another explosive material. A detonator
may not contain more than ten grams of total explosives by weight, excluding
ignition or delay charges. The term includes, but is not limited to, electric
blasting caps of instantaneous and delay types, blasting caps for use with
safety fuse, detonating cord delay connectors and nonelectric instantaneous and
delay blasting caps which use detonating cord, shock tube or any other
replacement for electric leg wires. Unless specifically classified otherwise,
detonators are classified 1.I (Class A explosives). Also see detonators 1.4
(Class C explosives).
      DETONATORS 1.4 (CLASS C EXPLOSIVES). Initiating devices which will not
mass explode when packaged for shipment. (See mass explode.)
      DIAMETER. The cross-sectional width of a borehole or an explosive
cartridge.
      DITCH BLASTING. The formation of a ditch by the detonation of a series of
explosive charges.
      DITCHING DYNAMITE. A nitroglycerin type explosive especially designed to
propagate sympathetically from hole to hole in ditch blasting.
      DO’S AND DON’T’S. Former name of a list of precautions (IME Safety
Library Publication No. 4) printed by the Institute of Makers of Explosives
pertaining to the transportation, storage, handling and use of explosive
materials and included in cases of explosive materials. Recently renamed Always
And Never.
      DOT. See Department of Transportation.
      DOWNLINE. A line of detonating cord or plastic tubing in a blasthole
which transmits the detonation from the trunkline or surface delay system down
the hole to the primer.
      DRILL HOLE. A hole drilled in the material to be blasted for the purpose
of containing an explosive charge, also called BLASTHOLE or BOREHOLE.
      DRILLING PATTERN. The location of blastholes in relationship to each
other and the free face.
      DYNAMITE. A high explosive used for blasting, consisting essentially of a
mixture of, but not limited to, nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, ammonium
nitrate, sodium nitrate and carbonaceous materials.
      ELECTRIC BLASTING CIRCUIT. An electric circuit containing electric
detonators and associated wiring. Also see parallel, series and series-in-
parallel blasting circuits.
      ELECTRIC DETONATOR. A detonator designed for, and capable of, initiation
by means of an electric current.
      ELECTRICAL STORM. An atmospheric disturbance characterized by intense
electrical activity producing lightning strokes and strong electric and
magnetic fields. Synonymous with thunderstorm and lightning storm.
      EMERGENCY PROCEDURE CARD. Instructions carried on a vehicle transporting
explosive materials and giving specific procedures in case of emergency.
      EMULSION. An explosive material containing substantial amounts of
oxidizer dissolved in water droplets, surrounded by an immiscible fuel, or
droplets of an immiscible fuel surrounded by water containing substantial
amounts of oxidizer.
      ENERGY. A measure of the potential for an explosive to do work.
      EXPLODE. To react chemically in a rapid manner to produce heat and
pressure. The term encompasses both deflagration and detonation.
      EXPLOSION. A chemical reaction involving an extremely rapid expansion of
gas usually associated with the liberation of heat.
      EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion, i.e., with substantially
instantaneous release of gas and heat. In 527 CMR 13.00, explosives shall be a
Class I Explosives Materials. Class I Explosives Materials shall be divided
into six divisions, the divisions being characteristic of the properties and
hazards of the particular explosives materials. The Divisions of Class I
Explosives Materials shall be as follows.
         DIVISION 1.1. Explosives that have a mass explosion hazard (formerly
Class A explosives).
         DIVISION 1.2. Explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass
explosion hazard. A high explosive (formerly Class A or Class B explosives).
         DIVISION 1.3. Explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor
blast hazard or a minor projection hazard, or both, but not a mass explosion
hazard. A low explosive (formerly Class B explosives).
         DIVISION 1.4. Explosives that present a minor explosion hazard. An
external fire must not cause virtual instantaneous explosion of almost the
entire contents of the package. No device may contain more than 25 g (0.9 oz)
of a detonating material. A low explosive (formerly a Class C explosive).
         DIVISION 1.5. Very insensitive explosive materials that have a mass
explosion hazard but are so insensitive that there is little or no probability
of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal
conditions of transport (formerly a blasting agent).
         DIVISION 1.6. Extremely insensitive articles that do not have a mass
explosion hazard, and articles that demonstrate a negligible probability of
accidental initiation or propagation (no applicable hazard class).(**)
      EXPLOSIVE-ACTUATED DEVICE. Any tool or special mechanized device which is
actuated by explosives. The term does not include propellant-actuated devices.
(Also see propellant- actuated power device.) Examples of EXPLOSIVE- ACTUATED
DEVICES are jet tappers and jet perforators.
      EXPLOSIVE CHARGE. The quantity of explosive material used in a blasthole,
coyote tunnel or explosive device.
      EXPLOSIVE LOADING FACTOR. The amount of explosive used per unit of rock.
Also called POWDER FACTOR.
      EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.
         (a)   Any explosive, blasting agent or detonator. The term includes,
but is not limited to, dynamite and other explosives, slurries, emulsions and
water gels, black powder, pellet powder, initiating explosives, detonators
(blasting caps), safety fuse, squibs, detonating cord, smokeless propellants,
small arms ammunition, small arms percussion caps, smokeless primers, igniter
cord and igniters.(**)
         (b)   A list of explosive materials determined to be within the
coverage of 18 U.S.C. Chapter 40, Importation, Manufacture, Distribution and
Storage of Explosive Materials, is issued at least annually by the Director of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the Department of the Treasury.
         (c)   The United States Department of Transportation classification of
explosive materials used in commercial blasting operations are not identical
with the statutory definitions of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, 18
U.S.C. § 841. To achieve uniformity in transportation the definitions of the
United States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R. parts 1—99 subdivides
these materials into:
            DIVISION 1.1. Mass exploding (Class A explosives);
            DIVISION 1.2. Projection hazard (Class A or Class B explosives);
            DIVISION 1.3. Fire hazard, minor blast (Class B explosives) or
projection hazard;
            DIVISION 1.4. Minor explosion (Class C explosives) hazard not mass
exploding; and
            DIVISION 1.5. Insensitive explosives, (Blasting Agents) Very little
probability of initiation or transition from burning to detonation during
transport.
      EXPLOSIVE STRENGTH. The amount of energy released by an explosive upon
detonation which is an indication of the capacity of the explosive to do work.
(See also energy).
      EXTRA (AMMONIA) DYNAMITE. A dynamite in which part of the nitroglycerin
is replaced by ammonium nitrate in sufficient quantity to result in the same
weight strength.
      EXTRANEOUS ELECTRICITY. Electrical energy, other than actual firing
current or the test current from a blasting galvanometer, that is present at a
blast site and that could enter an electric blasting circuit. It includes stray
current, static electricity, RF (electromagnetic) waves and time varying
electric and magnetic fields.
      FERTILIZER GRADE AMMONIUM NITRATE. A grade of ammonium nitrate as defined
by the Fertilizer Institute.
      FIRE EXTINGUISHER RATING. A rating set forth in the National Fire Code,
being NFPA 110, which may be identified on an extinguisher by a number (five,
20, 70 and the like) indicating the extinguisher’s relative effectiveness
followed by a letter (A, B, C and the like) indicating the class or classes of
fires for which the extinguisher has been found to be effective.
      FIRE-RESISTANT. Construction designed to provide reasonable protection
against fire. (For exterior walls or magazines constructed of wood, this shall
mean fire resistance equivalency provided by sheet metal of not less than 26
gauge.)
      FIRING CURRENT. An electric current of recommended magnitude and duration
to sufficiently energize an electric detonator or a circuit of electric
detonators.
      FIRING LINE. The wire(s) connecting the electrical power source with the
electric blasting circuit.
      FLAGS-DANGER. Flags, usually red, which may or may not be imprinted with
a warning and used to caution personnel around explosives operations, or
displayed on trucks transporting explosives.
      FLAMMABILITY. The ease with which an explosive material may be ignited by
flame and heat.
      FLASH POINT. The lowest temperature at which vapors from a volatile
combustible substance ignite in air when exposed to flame, as determined in an
apparatus specifically designed for such testing.
      FLASHOVER. The sympathetic detonation between explosive charges or
between charged blastholes.
      FLYROCK. Rocks propelled from the blast area by the force of an
explosion.
      FRAGMENTATION. The breaking of a solid mass into pieces by blasting.
      FREE FACE. A rock surface exposed to air or water which provides room for
expansion upon fragmentation; sometimes called open face.
      FUMES. The gaseous products of an explosion. For the purpose of
determining the FUME classification of explosive materials, only poisonous or
toxic gases are considered.
      FUSE. See safety fuse.
      FUSE CAP. A detonator which is initiated by a safety fuse; also referred
to as an ordinary blasting cap. Synonymous with blasting cap, also see
detonator.
      FUSE CUTTER. A mechanical device for cutting safety fuse clean and at
right angles to its long axis.
      GAP SENSITIVITY. The maximum length of gap across which a detonation
weave will travel and initiate a second or receptor cartridge. Both primer and
receptor cartridge should be of the same composition, diameter and weight.
Usually refers to gap in air, but other media may be used.
      GELATIN DYNAMITE. A type of highly water resistant dynamite characterized
by its gelatinous or plastic consistency.
      GEOLOGY. A description of the types and arrangement of rock in an area;
the description usually includes the dip and strike, the type and extent of
preexisting breaks in the rock and the hardness and massiveness of the rock, as
these affect blast design.
      GRAINS. In the avoirdupois system of weight measurement 7,000 grains are
equivalent to one standard 16 ounce pound (0.45 kg.). A GRAIN is 0.0648 grams
in both the avoirdupois and the troy system.
      GROUND FAULT. An electrical path between parts of the blasting circuit
and earth.
      GROUND VIBRATION. Shaking the ground by elastic waves emanating from a
blast; usually measured in inches per second of particle velocity.
      HANGFIRE. The detonation of an explosive charge at some non-predictable
time after its normally designed firing time.
      HARDWOOD. Red oak, white oak, hard maple, ash or hickory, free from loose
knots, wind shakes or similar defects.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ADVISORY COUNCIL (“HMAC”). An international
organization representing shippers and carriers, container manufacturers and
reconditioners and emergency response companies for hazardous materials.
      HERTZ (“HZ”). Synonymous with cycles per second.
      HIGH EXPLOSIVES. Explosives which are characterized by a very high rate
of reaction, high pressure development and the presence of a detonation wave in
the explosive.
      HIGHWALL. A nearly vertical face at the edge of a bench, bluff or ledge
on a surface excavation.
      HOLE DIAMETER. The cross-sectional width of the borehole.
      IGNITER CORD. A small diameter pyrotechnic cord that burns at a uniform
rate with an external flame and used to ignite a series of safety fuses.
      IME. See Institute of Makers of Explosives.
      IME-22 CONTAINER (“COMPARTMENT”). A container (portable), or a
compartment (permanently affixed to a vehicle), which is constructed in
accordance with IME SLP-22 specifications and is authorized by the Department
of Transportation for the transport of certain types of detonators on the same
vehicle with other explosives.
      IME FUME CLASSIFICATION. A classification indicating the amount of carbon
monoxide and hydrogen sulfide produced by an explosive or blasting agent.
Explosives with positive oxygen balances are not considered as being acceptable
in these classifications. See Appendix F.
      INCENDIVITY. The property of an igniting agent (e.g., spark, flame or hot
solid) which indicates it is of sufficient intensity to ignite flammable
material or explosive gases.
      INHABITED BUILDING. A building regularly occupied in whole or part as a
habitation for human beings, or any church, schoolhouse, railroad station,
store or other structure where people are accustomed to assemble, except any
building or structure occupied in connection with the manufacture,
transportation, storage or use of explosive materials.
      INITIATION. The start of deflagration or detonation in an explosive
material.
      INITIATOR. A detonator, detonating cord or similar device used to start
detonation or deflagration in an explosive material.
      INSTANTANEOUS DETONATOR. A detonator that has a firing time of
essentially zero seconds as compared to delay detonators with firing times of
from several milliseconds to several seconds.
      INSTITUTE OF MAKERS OF EXPLOSIVES. A nonprofit, safety oriented trade
association representing producers of commercial explosive materials in the
United States and Canada and dedicated to safety in the manufacture,
transportation, (IME) storage, handling and use of explosive materials.
      INSTITUTE OF MAKERS OF EXPLOSIVES NO. 8 TEST DETONATOR. IME No. 8 test
detonator has 0.40 to 0.45 grams PETN base charge pressed to a specific gravity
of 1.4 g/cc and primed with standard weights of primer, depending on
manufacturer.
      INVENTORY. A listing of all explosive materials stored in a magazine.
      ISSUING AUTHORITY. The governmental Agency, Office or official vested
with the authority to issue permits or licenses.
      LEADING (LEAD) LINES OR WIRES. The wires connecting the electrical power
source with the circuit containing electric detonators. See firing line.
      LEAKAGE RESISTANCE. The resistance between the blasting circuit
(including lead wires) and the ground.
      LEG WIRES. The two single wires or one duplex wire extending out from an
electric detonator.
      LOADING. Placing explosive material in a blasthole or against the
material to be blasted.
      LOADING DENSITY. The weight of explosive loaded per unit length of
borehole occupied by the explosive, expressed as pounds/foot or kilograms/meter
of borehole.
      LOADING POLE. A nonmetallic pole used to assist in the placing and
compacting explosive charges in boreholes.
      LOW EXPLOSIVES. Explosive which are characterized by deflagration or low
rate of reaction and the development of low pressure. See deflagration.
      MAGAZINE. Any building, structure or container, other than an explosives
manufacturing building, approved for the storage of explosive materials.
      MAGAZINE KEEPER. A person responsible for the inventory and safe storage
of explosive materials, including the proper maintenance of explosive
materials, storage magazines and areas.
      MAGAZINE, SURFACE. A specially designed and constructed structure for the
storage of explosive materials on the surface of the ground.
      MAGAZINE UNDERGROUND. A specially designed and constructed structure for
the storage of explosive materials underground.
      MAIN EXPLOSIVE CHARGE. The explosive material that performs the major
work of blasting.
      MANUFACTURING CODES. Code markings stamped on explosives materials
packages, indicating among other information, the date of manufacture.
      MASS EXPLODE (MASS EXPLOSION). An explosion which affects almost the
entire load or quantity of explosives virtually instantaneously.
      MAXIMUM RECOMMENDED FIRING CURRENT. The highest electric current which
will result in the safe and effective performance of an electric detonator.
      MILLISECOND. One thousandth part of a second (.001 or 1/1000 second)
      MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (“MSHA”). An Agency of the
Department of Labor concerned with promulgation and enforcement of health and
safety regulations in the mining field.
      MISFIRE. A blast or specific borehole that failed to detonate as planned.
Also, the explosive materials that failed to detonate as planned.
      MS CONNECTORS. Nonelectric, short interval (millisecond) delay devices
for use in delaying blasts which are initiated by detonating cord. Same as
detonating cord MS connectors.
      MSHA APPROVAL. A document issued by MSHA which states that an explosive
or explosive unit has met MSHA requirements and which authorizes an approval
marking identifying the explosive or explosive unit as approved as permissible.
      MUCKPILE. The pile of broken material resulting from a blast.
      NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION (“NFPA”). An independent, non-profit
association organized to promote the science and improve the methods of fire
protection and prevention, electrical safety and other related safety goals.
      NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION (“NFPA”) STANDARDS. Standards for
explosive materials and ammonium nitrate issued by the National Fire Protection
Association.
      NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL (“NSC”). A non-profit organization charged by
Congress to provide a regular information service on the causes of accidents
and ways to prevent them.
      NATURAL BARRICADE. Natural features of the ground such as hills, or
timber of sufficient density that the surrounding exposures which require
protection cannot be seen from the magazine when the trees are bare.
      NITROGLYCERIN. An explosive chemical compound used as a sensitizer in
dynamite and represented by the formula (C3H5(ON02)3.
      NONELECTRIC DETONATOR. A detonator that does not require the use of
electric energy to function.
      OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (“OSHA”). An Agency of the
Department of Labor active in eliminating occupational hazards and promoting
employee health and safety.
      OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING (“OSM”). An Agency of the Department of the
Interior regulating surface coal mining and the surface effects of underground
coal mining.
      OVERBURDEN. Material of any nature laying on top of a deposit of material
which is to be mined.
      PARALLEL BLASTING CIRCUIT. An electric blasting circuit in which one leg
wire of each detonator is connected to one of the wires from the source of
firing current and the other wire from the firing current source. (Can also be
used to refer to certain nonelectric systems.)
      PARTICLE VELOCITY. See velocity.
      PARTING. A rock mass located between two seams of coal; a joint or crack
in rock.
      PERMISSIBLE DIAMETER. The smallest allowable diameter of particular
permissible explosive, as approved by the Mine Safety and Health (SMALLEST)
Administration (“MSHA”).
      PERMISSIBLE (“MSHA”) APPROVED EXPLOSIVES. Explosives that are approved by
the Mine Safety and Health Explosives Administration for use in gassy and dusty
atmospheres. Permissible explosives must be used and stored in accordance with
certain conditions specified by the Mine Safety and Health Administration
(“MSHA”).
      PLACARDS. Signs placed on vehicles transporting hazardous materials
(including explosive materials) indicating the nature of the cargo.
      PLOSOPHORIC MATERIALS. [Binary Explosives], two of more unmixed,
commercial manufactured, prepackaged chemical ingredients including oxidizers,
flammable liquids or solids or similar substances that are not independently
classified as explosives but which when mixed or combined form a mixture that
is classified as an explosive and that is intended for blasting. It may be
classified by the Hazardous Materials Regulations of the United States
Department of Transportation as an explosive depending on its susceptibility to
detonation.(**)
      POWDER. A common synonym for explosive materials.
      POWDER FACTOR. The amount of explosive used per unit of rock. Also called
EXPLOSIVE LOADING FACTOR.
      POWER SOURCE. The source of power for energizing electric blasting
circuits, e.g., a blasting machine or power line.
      PREBLAST SURVEY. A documentation of the existing condition of structures
near an area where blasting is to be conducted.
      PREMATURE FIRING. The detonation of an explosive charge before the
intended time.
      PRESPLIMNG (PRESHEARING). A smooth blasting method in which cracks for
the final contour are created by firing a single row of holes prior to the
initiation of the rest of the holes in the blast pattern.
      PRILLED AMMONIUM NITRATE. Ammonium nitrate in a pelleted or prilled form.
      PRIMARY BLAST. A blast used to fragment and displace material from its
original position to facilitate subsequent handling and crushing.
      PRIMARY EXPLOSIVE. A sensitive explosive which nearly always detonates by
simple ignition from such means as spark, flame, impact, friction or other
primary heat sources of appropriate magnitude.
      PRIMER. A unit, package or cartridge or explosives used to initiate other
explosives or blasting agents, and which contains:
         (a)   A detonator; or
         (b)   Detonating cord to which is attached a detonator designed to
initiate the detonating cord.
      PROPAGATION. The detonation of an explosive charge by an impulse received
from an adjacent or nearby explosive charge.
      QUANTITY-DISTANCE TABLE. A table listing minimum recommended distance
from explosives materials stores of various weights to a specific location.
      RADIO FREQUENCY ENERGY (“RF”). The energy radiated as electromagnetic
waves in the radio frequency spectrum.
      RADIO FREQUENCY TRANSMITTER. An electronic transmitting device which
radiates radio frequency waves. The transmitting device may be fixed
(stationary) or mobile, and includes car telephones, citizens band radios, AM
and FM radio transmitters, television transmitters and radar transmitters.
      REGULATIONS FEDERAL, COMMONWEALTH, LOCAL. Regulations promulgated by
federal, commonwealth or local regulatory Agencies governing the manufacturer,
transportation, storage, sale, possession, handling and use of explosive
materials.
      RELIEF. The effective distance from a blasthole to the nearest free face
(Synonymous with burden.)
      RESISTANCE. The measure of opposition to the flow of electrical current,
expressed in ohms.
      ROTATIONAL FIRING. Delay blasting system used so that the detonating
explosives will successively displace the burden into the void created by
previously detonated explosives in holes which fired at an earlier delay
period.
      ROUND. A group of boreholes fired or intended to be fired in a continuous
sequence with the application of initiating energy.
      SAFETY FUSE. A flexible cord containing solid flammable materials by
which fire or flame is conveyed at a continuous and uniform rate from the point
of ignition to a cut end. A fuse detonator is usually attached to that end,
although SAFETY FUSE may be used without a detonator to ignite material such as
deflagrating explosives.
      SAFETY STANDARD. Suggested precautions relative to the safety practices
to be employed in the manufacture, transportation, storage, handling and use of
explosive materials.
      SCALED DISTANCE. A factor relating similar blast effects from various
weight charges of explosive material at various distances. SCALED DISTANCES
referring to blasting effects is obtained by dividing the distance of concern
by a fractional power of the weight of the explosive materials.
      SEAM. A stratum or bed of coal or other material. May also refer to a
crack or joint in a blast area which may be filled with mud or other material.
A SEAM may be in any orientation.
      SECONDARY BLASTING. Blasting to reduce the size of boulders resulting
from a primary blast.
      SEISMOGRAPH. An instrument, useful in monitoring blasting operations,
which records ground vibration. Particle velocity, displacement or acceleration
is generally measured and recorded in three mutually perpendicular directions.
      SENSITIVENESS. A measure of an explosive’s cartridge-to-cartridge
propagating ability under certain test conditions. It is expressed as the
distance through air at which a primed half cartridge (donor) will detonate an
unprimed half cartridge (receptor). Also see gap sensitivity.
      SENSITIVITY. A physical characteristic of an explosive material
classifying its ability to be initiated upon receiving an external impulse such
as impact, shock, flame, friction or other influence which can cause explosive
decomposition.
         (a)   CAP-SENSITIVE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL. Any explosive material that
can be detonated by means of a No. 8 blasting cap or its equivalent. Cap-
sensitive material shall be classified as an explosive.
         (b)   NON CAP-SENSITIVE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL. Any explosive material
that can not be detonated by means of a No. 8 blasting cap or its equivalent.
Non cap-sensitive material shall not be classified as an explosive.(**)
      SEPARATION DISTANCES. Minimum recommended distances from explosive
materials accumulations to other specified locations.
      SEQUENTIAL BLASTING MACHINE. A blasting machine designed to actuate
separate series of detonators at accurately timed intervals. Also called
sequential timer.
      SEQUENTIAL TIMER. See sequential blasting machine.
      SERIES BLASTING CIRCUIT. An electric blasting circuit that provides one
continuous path for the current through all caps in the circuit.
      SERIES-IN-PARALLEL BLASTING CIRCUIT. A circuit in which electric
detonators are divided into two or more balanced groups being connected
together in series and the groups being connected together in parallel.
      SHOCK TUBE. A small diameter plastic tube used for initiating detonators.
It contains only a limited amount of reactive material so that the energy that
is transmitted through the tube by means of a detonation wave is guided through
and confined within the walls of the tube.
      SHOCK WAVE. A transient pressure pulse that propagates at supersonic
velocity.
      SHORT DELAY BLASTING. The practice of detonating blastholes in successive
intervals where the time difference between any two successive detonations is
measured in milliseconds.
      SHOT ANCHOR. A device that anchors explosive material charges in the
borehole so that the charges will not be blown out by the detonation of other
charges or, in seismic work, cannot be pulled out of the borehole by the leg
wires.
      SHOT BREAK. A space consisting of an undrilled or drilled area which may
include loaded or unloaded blastholes to separate two individual blasts located
on the same bench.
      SHOT FIRER. See blaster. (SHOT FIRER usually refers to an underground
coal mine blaster.)
      SHUNT (SHUNTING).
         (a)   The shorting together of the free ends of:
            1.   Electric detonator leg wires; or
            2.   The wire ends of an electric blasting circuit or part thereof.
         (b)   The term also applies to an electrical shorting device applied
to the free ends of electric detonators by the manufacturer.
      SIGNS—EXPLOSIVE (PLACARDS). Signs, called placards, placed on vehicles
transporting explosives denoting the character of the cargo, or signs placed
near storage areas as a warning to unauthorized personnel.
      SLURRY. See water gel or slurry.
      SPACING. The distance between boreholes. In bench blasting, the distance
is measured parallel to the free face and perpendicular to the burden.
      SPECIFIC GRAVITY. The ratio of the weight of any volume of substance to
the weight of an equal volume of pure water.
      STABILITY. The ability of an explosive material to retain chemical and
physical properties specified by the manufacturer when exposed to specific
environmental conditions over a particular period of time.
      STATIC ELECTRICITY. Electric charge at rest on a person or object. It is
most often produced by the contact and separation of dissimilar insulating
materials.
      STEMMING. Inert material placed in a borehole on top of or between
separate charges of explosive material. Used for the purpose of confining
explosive materials or to separate charges of explosive material in the same
borehole.
      STORAGE. The safekeeping of explosive materials usually in specially
designed structures called magazines.
      STRAY CURRENT. A flow of electricity outside an insulated conductor
system.
      SUBDRILLING. The practice of drilling boreholes below floor level or
working elevation to ensure breakage of rock to working elevation.
      SYMPATHETIC DETONATION. The detonation of an explosive material as the
result of receiving an impulse from another detonation through air, earth or
water. Synonymous with SYMPATHETIC PROPAGATION. (See also flashover.)
      TABLE OF RECOMMENDED SEPARATION DISTANCES OF AMMONIUM NITRATE AND
BLASTING AGENTS FROM EXPLOSIVES OR BLASTING AGENTS. A quantity distance table
designed to prevent explosion of ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate-based
blasting agents by propagation from nearby stores of high explosives or
blasting agents. It is based on a “donor-receptor” relationship developed by
the United States Bureau of Mines.
      TAMPING. The action of compacting the explosive charge or the stemming in
a blasthole. Sometimes refers to the stemming material itself.
      TAMPING POLE. A wooden or plastic pole used to compact explosive charges
or stemming. (See also loading pole.)
      TEMPORARY STORAGE. Storage of explosives for less than 24 hours.
      TEST BLASTING CAP NO. 8. See Institute of Makers of Explosives No. 8 Test
Detonator.
      TOE. In bench blasting, excessive burden measured at the floor level of
the bench.
      UNBARRICADED. The absence of a natural or artificial barricade around
explosive storage areas of facilities.
      UNCONFINED DETONATION VELOCITY. The detonation velocity of an explosive
material fired without confinement; for example, a charge fired in the open.
(Paper tubes are generally not considered as confinement.)
      UNDERWRITERS LABORATORY INC. (“UL”). A nationally recognized incorporated
testing laboratory qualified and equipped to conduct the necessary tests to
determine compliance with appropriate standards and the satisfactory
performance of materials or equipment in actual usage.
      UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES (“USBM”). A former bureau of the Department
of Interior active in promoting safety in coal mines and in carrying out board
programs in mining and related fields.
      VOLT. The unit of electromotive force. It is the difference in potential
required to make a current of one ampere flow through a resistance of one ohm.
      VELOCITY. The measurement of speed.(**)
      VELOCITY, PARTICLE. The velocity at which the earth vibrates, measured in
inches/second, or centimeters/second.(**)
      VELOCITY, PEAK PARTICLE. The highest recorded particle velocity.(**)
      VELOCITY, SEISMIC. The velocity at which a vibration or seismic wave
travels in the earth outward from the source. It is measured in thousands of
feet per second.(**)
      VOLUME STRENGTH. Synonymous with CARTRIDGE STRENGTH. See bulk strength.
      WARNING SIGNAL. A visual or audible signal which is used for warning
personnel in the vicinity of the blast area of the impending explosion.
      WATER GEL or SLURRY. A wide variety of materials used for blasting
manufactured with varying degrees of sensitivity to initiation and may be
classified as explosives or non explosive blasting agents. WATER GELS may be
premixed at an explosive manufacturing building or mixed at the site
immediately before delivery into the borehole.(**)
      WATER RESISTANCE. The ability of an explosive to withstand the
desensitizing effect of water penetration.
      WATT. A unit of electrical power equal to one joule per second.
      WEIGHT STRENGTH. The energy of an explosive material per unit of weight.
Often expressed as a percentage of the energy per unit of weight of a specified
explosive standard.
(**) Commonwealth Board of Fire Prevention Regulations, 527 CMR 13.03
Definitions
   (C)   General requirements. These requirements apply equally to divisions
(L) and (M) below. Provisions are as follows.
      (1)   Use and handling permit shall be issued by the Head of the Boston
Fire Department for all blasting conducted within city limits.
      (2)   Prior to a use and handling permit being issued, the Blaster shall
provide the following:
         (a)   A valid explosive users certificate (own and possess
certificate) issued by the commonwealth’s Fire Marshal;
         (b)   A certificate of insurance providing general liability insurance
with limits of not less than $1,000,000/$1,000,000. (Note: a use and handling
permit shall be issued only for the explicit time period covered by the
effective dates of the GL policy.);
         (c)   A blasting bond with the city or the commonwealth named as the
certificate holder. (Note: a use and handling permit shall be issued only for
the period of time covered by the effective dates of the bond);
         (d)   A Certificate of competency (blaster’s license) for each person
(s) who could be responsible for blasting operations, including shot design,
charge loading, wiring and detonation;
         (e)   Written proof, in a form approved by the Head of the Fire
Department that Dig Safe has been notified of the proposed blasting operations
and a dig safe number was issued in accordance with M.G.L Chapter 82, Section
40;
         (f)   Proof that the required preblast inspection surveys have been
completed; and
         (g)   The route that the explosives are going to be transported to the
site must be pre-approved by the Special Hazards Section of the Fire Prevention
Division. The time of arrival at the site and the time leaving the site should
be included.
   (D)   Preblast information requirements.
      (1)   A blast analysis and a blast design plan as specified in 527 CMR
13.09 (1), (k) and (l), shall be provided and explained to the Head of the Fire
Department.
      (2)   The blast analysis shall consider adjacent area structure(s),
building(s), building foundations, utilities, including gas and water supply
lines, septic systems and swimming pools and area geology within the distances
defined in Table 1 in division (H) below. The blast analysis shall identify
commercial equipment, such as computers, electron microscopes, laser equipment,
relays and the like, which are sensitive to vibrations, and other underground
objects that might be damaged by the effects of a blast.
      (3)   In preparing the blast design plan and blast analysis, the
following shot variables, as a minimum, shall be considered to minimize the
adverse effects of ground vibrations and flyrock:
         (a)   Maximum charge weight detonating at one time (i.e., within 8
milliseconds);
         (b)   True distance (distance the waves must travel);
         (c)   Geological conditions;
         (d)   Degree of confinement;
         (e)   Physical properties of the rock;
         (f)   Coupling;
         (g)   Spatial distribution;
         (h)   Detonator timing scatter;
         (i)   Time duration of energy release; and
         (j)   Type of explosive or blasting agent.
      (4)   The following shot variables, as a minimum, shall be considered to
minimize the adverse effects of air blast:
         (a)   Maximum charge weight detonating at one time (i.e., within 8
milliseconds);
         (b)   Depth of burial of the charges;
         (c)   Exposed detonating material on the ground surface;
         (d)   Atmospheric conditions;
         (e)   Temperature and temperature gradients;
         (f)   Wind velocity, direction and gradients;
         (g)   Atmosphere and time of day;
         (h)   Topography;
         (i)   Volume of displaced rock;
         (j)   Delay interval and orientation; and
         (k)   Type of explosive.
      (5)   (a)   The blaster shall familiarize the Fire Department with the
site and proposed blasting operations. The blaster shall provide a vicinity map
drawn to scale to illustrate the blasting zone(s) and all structures and other
infrastructure. The vicinity map should include all structures to a radial
distance determined from Table 1 in division (H) below. A visit to the site to
familiarize the Fire Department’s designated personnel with conditions may be
required per order of the Head of the Fire Department.
         (b)   Exception: For quarries complying with all of the requirements
of division (M) below, the radial distance of the vicinity map shall be the
distance of the Blast Analysis as determined in division (M)(3) below.
      (6)   A preblast conference may required by the Head of the Fire
Department, at which the Head of the Fire Department shall review its concerns
and comments with the blaster. Any conditions resulting from this conference
shall be made in writing and shall become part of the permit by reference.
      (7)   The Head of the Fire Department, in a written statement, shall, if
it deems it necessary and in the public interest, require an independent
blasting consultant, specialist, engineer or geologist, at the cost of the
applicant, acceptable to the Head of the Fire Department be retained as a
consultant. Said consultant, specialist, engineer or geologist shall produce a
preblast analysis and assist the blaster in the preparation of a blast design
plan as defined in 527 CMR 13.09(1), (k) and (l), and by this Subsection. The
analysis will include an assessment of the impacts of blasting on the stability
of existing steep soil or rock slopes in the vicinity, sufficient to meet
approval of the Head of the Fire Department.
   (E)   Storage of explosive materials. 
      (1)   On site storage of explosive materials shall be in approved day
boxes or in DOT approved truck mounted magazines as detailed in 527 CMR 13.05
Storage.
      (2)   Adequate security must be provided to prevent unauthorized access
to the explosive material while it is on-site.
      (3)   A system must be in place to warn responding emergency personnel
about location of explosives. The system utilized should be documented and
submitted at time of permit application.
      (4)   An effort shall be made to locate the day box, or truck mounted
magazine, at safe distances from homes and roads.
      (5)   Overnight storage of explosives on site shall not be allowed unless
written permit is obtained from the Fire Chief or his or her designee. If a
storage permit is granted then location of the magazine shall comply with Table
1 of 527 CMR 13.05. In addition, a fire watch as determined by the Head of the
Fire Department of not more than two uniformed fire fighters shall be posted on
site, at the blaster’s expense with sufficient fire fighting equipment to
extinguish or control any fire exposure to the stored explosives.
   (F)   Transportation of explosives.
      (1)   All vehicles transporting explosives in or through the city shall
be under the jurisdiction of the Fire Department. All vehicles transporting
explosives in or through the city shall also be under the jurisdiction of any
other authority given legal jurisdiction by applicable commonwealth or federal
regulation or law.
      (2)   The route that the explosives are going to be transported to the
site must be pre-approved by the Special Hazards Section of the Fire Prevention
Division. The time of arrival at the site and the time leaving the site should
be included.
      (3)   All traffic violations involving vehicles transporting explosives
shall be reported to the Head of the Fire Department for investigation.
      (4)   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, or the commonwealth’s Fire
Marshal, or his or her designee, shall investigate all traffic accidents
involving vehicles that are transporting explosives.
      (5)   None of the vehicles involved in the accident, or the explosives,
shall be moved without the approval of the Fire Chief, or his or her designee,
or the commonwealth’s Fire Marshal, or his or her designee.
   (G)   Record keeping.
      (1)   All blasting operations must be fully documented, as required in
527 CMR 13.09(8) Blasting Log and herein. The following are minimum standards
for what are regarded as the essentials of adequate blasting logs and vibration
records. These logs and vibration records must be provided to the Head of the
Fire Department the same day as the blast. Records of each event must be kept,
by the licensed blaster, for a minimum of three years. Quarries, and other
locations where long-term blasting occurs, should also keep records on-site.
Records of each event shall:
         (a)   Include the name and blaster’s license, of the operator
conducting the blast;
         (b)   Include the location, date and time of the blast and reference
to the blasting permit granted for the blast;
         (c)   Identify the nearest dwelling, public building, school, church,
institutional building or underground structure outside the permit area and
establish the direction and distance from the nearest blasthole to the nearest
structure. All distances shall be made accurately by direct measurement in the
field or by measurement from a scale drawing of the blast vicinity;
         (d)   Include weather conditions, including those which may cause
possible adverse blasting effects;
         (e)   Record the type of material blasted;
         (f)   Incorporate sketches of the blast pattern, including number of
holes, burden, spacing, decks and delay pattern;
         (g)   Specify the diameter and depth of the holes, and type and length
of stemming at the top of borehole and between explosive decks in multi-deck
shots;
         (h)   Record the type of explosive used, the total weight of explosive
used, the weight per hole and the maximum weight of explosives detonated in any
one-delay period;
         (i)   Specify the initiation system and the nominal firing time of
each distinct detonation;
         (j)   Provide detailed descriptions of mats or other protection used;
         (k)   Document the type of seismographic instruments, their
sensitivity (or range setting) and their calibration signals and certificates
of annual calibration;
         (l)   Document the exact location of seismographic instrument, date,
time and accurate distance from the blast; and
         (m)   Show that name and firm (can be the operator) analyzing the
seismographic record.
      (2)   Vibration levels and airblast recorded. The levels that were
actually recorded should be compared to the predicted levels in the blast plan
and blast analysis. If the actual observations are consistently higher than
those predicted, then modifications should be made to the scaled distance
relationship being used and the new scaled distance predictive relationship,
including all data and statistical analyses, should be forwarded to the Head of
the Fire Department.
   (H)   Preblast inspection surveys.
      (1)   Preblast inspection surveys shall be conducted as outlined in 527
CMR 13.09(10) Preblast Inspection Surveys, and by this Subsection.
      (2)   (a)   For blasting operation for which no historical data exists to
assist in predicting probable vibration levels, the Head of the Fire Department
may order preblast inspection surveys to be conducted to distances that differ
from the 250 feet distance required by 527 CMR 13.09. The required distance for
preblast inspection surveys is dependent on the size of the blast, as measured
in terms of the maximum pounds of explosives detonated per delay. Table 1
provides distances to which preblast inspection surveys shall be required.
         (b)   Exception: Quarries complying with all of the requirements of
division (M) below shall not be required to conduct preblast surveys unless
required by 527 CMR.
      (3)   A map drawn to scale shall be submitted to identify all structures
for which preblast surveys were made. This site map shall include all
structures located at distances determined from Table 1.
TABLE 1
Required Radial Distances for Preblast Inspection Surveys
Explosives, W Explosives, W   Distance to nearest blasthole, feet
pounds over   pounds not over
TABLE 1
Required Radial Distances for Preblast Inspection Surveys
Explosives, W Explosives, W   Distance to nearest blasthole, feet
pounds over   pounds not over
0             10              250
11            20              325
21            30              400
31            40              475
41            50              550
51            60              625
61            70              700
71            80              775
81            90              850
91            100             925
101 or more                   100 * W½
W = maximum pounds of explosives per delay (i.e., detonated within 8
milliseconds)
   Note: The distances in Table 1 are derived from 527 CMR Section 13.09 Table
2. The distances in Table 1, The Preblast Survey Table, are increased by
approximately 50% over the distances in 527 CMR Section 13.09 Table 2. This
increase is needed to take into account that particle velocities may be much
higher than anticipated using the scaled distances assumed in 527 CMR Section
13.09 Table 2. Under some geological conditions particle velocities may be
higher by a factor of two or more. Under conditions of high confinement, such
as the opening holes in a heading or pre-splitting they may be higher by a
factor of five or more. These numbers can also be derived approximately by
utilizing the statistics published in RI-8507 and developing a model for the
ninety-fifth percentile.
   (I)   Blasting operations.
      (1)   No loaded drillholes shall be left unattended. Loaded or drillholes
that are present after normal working hours shall not be detonated unless and
until approval is received from the Head of the Fire Department, or his or her
designee, or the Fire Marshal, or his or her designee.
      (2)   The Fire Department shall be notified by the blaster in charge each
day that blasting is done at least two hours before any blasting on site. It is
required that the blaster shall also call the Fire Alarm Office immediately
before each blast.
      (3)   (a)   Blasting mats shall be used for all blasts except where the
Head of the Fire Department deems it impractical.
         (b)   Exception: Quarries complying with all of the requirements of
division (M) below shall not be required to use blasting mats unless required
by 527 CMR.
      (4)   The blast site shall be tested for extraneous, static and
electromagnetic currents, especially when electric blasting caps are used near
overhead power transmission lines, and within the recommended Tables of
Distance from radio transmitters as listed and graphed in Institute of Makers
of Explosives, Safety Library Publication No. 20, “Safety Guide for the
Prevention of Radio Frequency Radiation Hazards in the use of Commercial
Electric Blasting Detonators (Blasting Caps)”, December 1988.
   (J)   Seismograph monitoring of blasts.
      (1)   All seismographs shall be placed and utilized in accordance with
527 CMR Section 13 and the Seismograph Field Practice Guidelines as listed in
Appendix K of ISEE Blasters Handbook 17th Edition.
      (2)   In all cases, the operator should describe the field conditions and
set-up procedures in the permanent record of each blast.
      (3)   One seismograph shall be placed at the location of the closest
residence or above ground structure, not controlled by the project, to the
blast. A second seismograph shall be placed at the location that is at the
closest house or structure, not controlled by the project, approximately 180
degrees away from the first seismograph, or at another location mutually agreed
upon by the blaster and the Head of the Fire Department. Where it is deemed
necessary by the Head of the Fire Department, a third seismograph shall be
located at a residence or other structure mutually agreed upon by the blaster
and the Head of the Fire Department.
   (K)   Vibration and airblast. Blasts that exceed the maximum allowable limit
for peak particle velocity vs, frequency or decibel levels as established by
this Subsection or are known to the blaster to have produced flyrock shall
immediately be reported to the Head of the Fire Department. In case of
exceedance of vibration or airblast limits, the blaster shall, prior to the
next blast, forward to the Head of the Fire Department a written statement,
signed by the responsible Blaster, as to why the exceedance occurred and what
steps will be taken to prevent further exceedance. In the case of flyrock, the
blasting permit must be re-applied for and will not be issued without an
independent analysis of the blast, which shall include an explanation of the
reasons why the flyrock occurred and recommended steps to be taken to prevent
further flyrock incidents.
   (L)   Construction blasting; vibration and airblast.
      (1)   The blaster shall be required to record the effects of all blasts
on a seismograph of the type specified in 527 CMR 13.09(9)(C) 1 and 2.
      (2)   Blasting logs containing the information listed in 527 CMR 13.09(8)
Blasting Log shall be kept for each blast.
      (3)   The ground vibration limits shall be the limits shown in 527 CMR
13.09(9) Allowable Limits of Effects of Blasting Option 2, Figure (b), Particle
Velocity v. Frequency, USBM Recommendation (RI8507, 1980).
      (4)   The air blast limit shall be 133 dB peak.
   (M)   Quarry blasting.
      (1)   Signage, notification and access; blasting signs, warnings and
access control. The operator shall:
         (a)   Conspicuously place a series of durable signs reading “WARNING!
BLASTING AREA-DANGER” along the edge of any blasting area that comes within 100
feet of any public right-of-way and at the point where any other road provides
access to the blasting area;
         (b)   At all entrances to the permit area from public roads or
highways, place conspicuous signs that state “WARNING! EXPLOSIVES IN USE” which
clearly list and describe the meaning of the audible blast warning and the all-
clear signals that are in place, and which the marking of blasting areas and
charge holes waiting for firing within the permit area;
         (c)   Warning and all-clear signals of different character or pattern
shall be sounded prior to and following each blast. Warning sirens or horns
shall be deployed at the perimeter of the quarry and directed toward abutting
inhabited structures. These devices shall produce a sound level in the range of
115 to 125 dB at the source. Prior to the start of each blasting season, all
residences and businesses, identified in the blast analysis, shall be notified
by means of legal notice in local newspapers or other equivalent means of
public notice. Notification shall report the approximate date that blasting
will commence for the upcoming season, the expected number of blasts per day
and per week during the season, and clear explanations of the meaning of all
warning and all-clear signals; and
         (d)   Access within the blasting area shall be controlled to prevent
the presence of unauthorized persons during blasting. No person shall enter the
blasting area until an authorized representative has reasonably determined that
no unusual hazards, such as imminent slides or undetonated charges exist, and
access to and travel within the blasting area can be safely resumed.
      (2)   Safe vibration limits.
         (a)   The ground vibration limits shall be the limits shown in 527 CMR
13.09(9) Allowable Limits of Effects of Blasting Option 2, Figure (b), Particle
Velocity v. Frequency, USBM Recommendation (RI8507, 1980), except that the
maximum peak particle velocity for all frequencies greater than 20 Hz shall be
1.0 inches/second Allowable vibration limits for quarry blasting are shown on
Figure 1 and are listed in Table 2.
[IMAGE]
TABLE 2
Vibration Limits for Quarries
Vibration Limit Particle Velocity (in/sec)
TABLE 2
Vibration Limits for Quarries
Vibration Limit Particle Velocity (in/sec)
1.0             0.19
2.0             0.38
2.65 to 9.95    0.50
10              0.50
12              0.60
14              0.70
16              0.80
18              0.90
19.9            1.0
20 to 100       1.0
 
         (b)   Where sufficient blast data is available to prepare square root
scaled distance plots, compliance with vibration limits shall be achieved by
submittal of blast designs that predict 90% of the permitted vibration level
with a 95% degree of confidence. For the case that 95% of the vibrations have
frequencies greater than or equal to 20 Hz, the target vibration for blast
design shall be 0.90 x 1.0 inches/second, or 0.90 inches/second. For the case
that 95% of the vibrations are greater than or equal to 10 Hz, the target
vibration with a 95 % degree of confidence shall be 0.90 x 9.75 inches/second,
or approximately 0.70 inches/second. For the case that 5% or more of the
vibrations are less than 10 Hz, the target vibration for blast design shall be
0.90 x 0.5 inches/second, or 0.45 inches/second.
         (c)   Existing quarries shall analyze vibration data acquired during
the previous blasting year for the purpose of designing blasts to comply with
these vibration limits.
         (d)   New quarries, or quarries for which historical data is lacking,
shall conduct a series of test blasts to establish vibration and noise
propagation trends sufficient to predict vibrations at the 95% confidence level
for proposed production blasts. Details of the test blasting procedures shall
be submitted to the Head of the Fire Department for review and approval.
      (3)   Blast analysis. The area for the blast analysis for quarries will
include the area completely included within the line at which peak particle
velocity exceeded 0.25 ips, during the previous three years. These distances
shall be determined in the blast analysis using published or site-specific
predictive equations. For the case that peak vibration and airblast
observations significantly differ from predictions of published models, the
blast analysis shall be performed using site-specific data and predictive
models. Development and planned usage of site-specific predictive models for
ground vibration and airblast propagation shall be documented in reports
submitted to the Head of the Fire Department.
      (4)   Seismograph monitoring. One seismograph shall be placed at the
location of the closest inhabited building or structure, not controlled by the
quarry, to the blast. A second seismograph shall be placed at the closest
residence behind the open face of the blast. The third seismograph shall be
placed at a location mutually agreed upon by the quarry and the Head of the
Fire Department.
      (5)   Independent consultation.
         (a)   Quarries shall retain the services of a consultant who shall, on
an annual basis, review the seismographic reports from the proceeding year and
make recommendations designed to minimize the impact from vibrations on the
surrounding neighborhood, for the upcoming year based on the location in which
the quarry intends to blast. Prior to each blasting season, representatives
from the quarry together with representatives from the licensed blaster hired
by the quarry and the consultant shall meet with the Head of the Fire
Department, or his or her designee, to review the quarry’s plans for blasting
for the upcoming season.
         (b)   The consultant’s annual reports should include analyses of all
items that mitigate the effects of noise and vibration (“N/V”) transmitted into
the neighborhoods surrounding the quarry. These reports need to be
comprehensive and cumulative so that any new blasting contractor will have
readily accessible the entire year-by-year history (i.e., past five years) of
implementations of blast designs and the success or failure of such designs to
maintain N/V amplitudes at levels acceptable to the Head of the Fire
Department.
         (c)   At a minimum, the shot variables to be considered are:
            1.   Maximum charge weight detonating at one time;
            2.   True distance (distance the waves must travel);
            3.   Geological conditions;
            4.   Confinement;
            5.   Physical properties of the rock;
            6.   Coupling;
            7.   Spacial distribution;
            8.   Detonator timing scatter;
            9.   Time of energy release; and
            10.   Type of explosive.
   (N)   Severability.
      (1)   Partial validity. In the event any part or provision of this
Subsection is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of
making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions thereof, which are
determined to be legal; and it shall be presumed that this Subsection would
have been passed without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
      (2)   Segregation of invalid provisions. Any invalid part of this
Subsection shall be segregated from the remainder of this Subsection by the
court holding such part invalid, and the remainder shall remain in effect.
(CBC 1985 11-5.2; Ord. 2000 c. 6)
11-5A   FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
11-5A.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL STATION OPERATING COMPANY. A company equipped to receive a fire
alarm signal from each of its customers and which then transmits to the Boston
Fire Department (“BFD”) the location of any such alarm the central station
operating company receives.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. Any heat-activated, smoke-activated, flame energy-
activated or other such automatic device capable of transmitting a fire alarm
signal to either a central station operating company or directly to the BFD by
way of a master box.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM MALFUNCTION. The transmittal of a fire alarm to a central
station operating company or directly to the BFD by way of a master box which
alarm is caused by a malfunction. For the purposes of this Section, a
MALFUNCTION is defined as the failure of a fire alarm system to operate in the
normal or usual manner due to improper installation or maintenance and/or
mechanical defect(s) in the system, resulting in the transmittal of a needless
alarm signal to the BFD.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM OWNER. An individual or entity who owns the title to and/
or has on his or her business or residential premises a fire alarm system
equipped to send a fire alarm signal to a central station operating company or
directly to the BFD by way of a master box.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The Deputy Fire Chief in charge of the Fire Prevention
Division of the BFD, designated by the Fire Commissioner as the Fire Marshal of
the city.
   HALF-YEAR PERIOD. January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31,
as the case may be, of any calendar year.
   HEAD OF THE BOSTON FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Chief of the Boston Fire Department,
designated by the Boston Fire Commissioner as Chief Executive Officer.
   MASTER BOX OWNER. An individual or entity who has on his or her business or
residential premises a fire alarm system equipped to send a fire alarm signal
directly to the BFD by way of a master box.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.1; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.2   Connection of Fire Alarm Systems to the BFD by Way of a Master Box.
   (A)   Before the fire alarm system is connected to the BFD, the master box
owner shall provide the Fire Marshal with the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and home and work telephone numbers of the master
box owner;
      (2)   The street address where the master box is located;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the persons or
businesses protected by the fire alarm system connected to the master box; and
      (4)   The names, addresses and home and work telephone numbers of at
least two persons other than the owner who can be contacted 24 hours a day, who
are authorized by the master box owner to respond to an alarm signal and who
have access to the premises in which the master box is located.
   (B)   If, at passage of this Section, a fire alarm system has already been
connected to the BFD by way of a master box, the master box owner shall comply
with the requirements of this Subsection within 60 days after the BFD has sent
him or her notice by first class mail of the requirements of this Subsection.
   (C)   If a master box owner fails to comply with this Subsection, the Fire
Marshal may assess a fine of $50 for each day of non-compliance.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.2; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.3   Connection of Central Station Operating Companies to the BFD.
   (A)   Before the central station operating company is connected with the
BFD, it shall provide the Fire Marshal with the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the central station
operating company;
      (2)   The names, addresses and home and work telephone numbers of at
least two persons who can be contacted 24 hours a day, who are authorized by
the central station operating company to respond to an alarm signal and who
have access to the premises from where the alarm signal is emitting to the
central station operating company; and
      (3)   The name, address, home and work telephone numbers, and location of
the premises of each customer of the central station operating company who has
a fire alarm system equipped to send a fire alarm signal to the central station
operating company.
   (B)   If at the passage of this Section a central station operating company
already has a direct connection to the BFD, the central station operating
company shall comply with the requirements of this Subsection within 60 days
after the BFD has sent it notice by first class mail of the requirements of
this Subsection.
   (C)   If a central station operating company fails to comply with this
Subsection, the Fire Marshal may assess a fine of $50 for each day of non-
compliance.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.3; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.4   Updating Information.
   Every master box owner and every central station operating company shall be
responsible for updating the information herein required to be provided to the
Fire Marshal. If the information provided changes, the master box owner and the
central station operating company shall provide the Fire Marshal with the
updated information by the January 1, following the changes. If a master box
owner or a central station operating company fails to comply with this
Subsection, the Fire Marshal shall assess a fine of $50 for each day of non-
compliance.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.4; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.5   Fire Alarm System Malfunctions—Fines.
   (A)   If there are more than three fire alarm system malfunctions, as
defined herein, in a particular building in any half-year period, then the Fire
Marshal may assess a fine pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21, against a
fire alarm system owner for the fourth and any subsequent malfunction according
to the following schedule:
      (1)   Fourth malfunction: $50;
      (2)   Fifth malfunction: $75;
      (3)   Sixth malfunction: $100;
      (4)   Seventh malfunction: $150; and
      (5)   Eighth and any subsequent malfunction: $200.
   (B)   Notice of citation regarding any malfunction shall be given to the
owner in writing.
   (C)   Except as set forth below, for the eighth and any subsequent
malfunction in a particular building in any such half-year period, the Fire
Marshal may assess an additional fine of $200 for each day after the date of
such malfunction until the fire alarm system owner, through the informal
determination process, either demonstrates compliance or demonstrates no
malfunction, as those terms are defined below. The imposition of any such
additional fee shall be suspended during the pendency of any informal
determination or appeal proceeding as described below.
   (D)   (1)   With respect to any malfunction for which an alarm system owner
is cited, such owner shall have the right to seek to:
         (a)   Demonstrate compliance; or
         (b)   Demonstrate no malfunction to the Fire Marshal.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal’s decision or determination with respect thereto
shall herein be called the “informal determination”.
   (E)   If the fire alarm system owner seeks an informal determination, then
the Fire Marshal shall provide the owner with the opportunity or occasion to
demonstrate compliance and/or no malfunction.
   (F)   The term DEMONSTRATE COMPLIANCE, as used herein, shall mean that the
fire alarm system owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Fire Marshal
that the cause(s) of any such fire alarm system malfunctions are being
adequately addressed or have been or can be remedied in a reasonable time
period as determined by the Fire Marshal. The term DEMONSTRATE NO MALFUNCTION,
as used herein, shall mean that the fire alarm system owner can demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Fire Marshal that the cited fire alarm was not caused
by a fire alarm system malfunction.
      (1)   If, within ten business days after a fire alarm system owner’s
receipt of written notice of a citation of any fire alarm system malfunction,
the fire alarm system owner seeks an informal determination by the Fire
Marshal, and:
         (a)   If the informal determination is that the fire alarm system
owner has demonstrated compliance, then there will be no additional fines; or
         (b)   if the informal determination is that the fire alarm system
owner has not demonstrated compliance or no malfunction, unless the owner
appeals the informal determination under Subsection 11-5A.7 hereof, then, for
the eighth and any subsequent malfunction, due to the seriousness of this
situation, the Fire Marshal shall assess such additional fine of $200 per day
until the owner demonstrates compliance with respect to such violation.
      (2)   If a fire alarm system owner seeks an informal determination at any
time and such informal determination is that the fire alarm system owner has
demonstrated no malfunction, then the citation for any such malfunction shall
be rescinded by the Fire Marshal.
      (3)   If a fire alarm system owner appeals, under Subsection 11-5A.7
hereof, any malfunction for which the owner is cited or assessed a fine, then,
any fines shall be held in abeyance until final resolution of the appeal
process. If any appellant is successful in such appeal process, no fines shall
be assessed. If the appellant is unsuccessful in such appeal process, total
fines shall be calculated from the day of the filing of the formal appeal.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.5; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.5A   Municipal Charges Lien.
   If a fine assessed for a fire alarm system malfunction pursuant to
Subsection 11-5A.5 hereof has not been paid by the due date, the Fire Marshal,
or his or her designee, shall impose a lien on the real property where such
malfunction occurred, pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section
58 and shall notify the fire alarm system owner in writing of such lien. The
provisions of this Subsection shall apply to fines that remain unpaid or that
become due and payable on or after the effective date of this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.5A; Ord. 1992 c. 10 § 1)
11-5A.6   Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Similar Telephone Devices.
   No fire alarm system shall be equipped with a tape dialer or similar
automatic telephone device which will transmit an alarm message to any
telephone lines of the BFD. If, at the passage of this Section, a fire alarm
system is equipped with such a tape dialer or similar automatic telephone
device, the fire alarm system owner shall have 60 days from passage of this
Section to disconnect such tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device.
If a fire alarm system owner fails to comply with this Subsection, the Fire
Marshal may assess a fine of $50.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.6; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.7   Appeal Procedures.
   Any fire alarm system owner who is aggrieved by any action or determination
taken by the Fire Marshal under this Section may, within ten business days of
such owner’s receipt of written notice of any such action or determination, or
such longer period of time as may be authorized in writing by the Fire Marshal,
file an appeal, in writing, to the Fire Marshal and to the head of the BFD, as
defined herein. After notice of a citation to such owner, the Head of the BFD,
or his or her designee, shall, within ten days after such owner’s appeal, hold
a hearing, after which he or she shall issue a decision in which he or she
affirms, annuls or modifies the action taken by the Fire Marshal, giving his or
her reasons in writing therefor. The Head of the BFD shall send his or her
decision to the owner by first class mail within ten days after the hearing.
The decision of the Head of the BFD shall be a final administrative decision.
The owner shall have 30 days from the date of the owner’s receipt of such
written decision to seek judicial review in the appropriate court.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.7; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.8   Regulations and Enforcement.
   The Fire Marshal may promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to
implement this Section. The Fire Marshal is authorized to pursue such legal
action as may be necessary to enforce this Section.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.8; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.9   Deposit in the General Fund.
   All fines assessed herein shall be payable to the city for deposit in the
General Fund.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.9; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)
11-5A.10   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be deemed to be severable, and if any
of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.10; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 3)
11-5A.11   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect on January 1, 1989.
(CBC 1985 11-5A.11; Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 4)
11-5B   PROHIBITING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
11-5B.1   Sale, Possession and Use of Fireworks Prohibited.
   No person shall sell, possess or use fireworks (including, but not limited
to, firecrackers, cherry bombs, silver salutes, M-80’s, torpedoes, sky-rockets,
Roman candles, sparklers, rockets, wheels, colored fires, fountains, mines,
serpents or other fireworks of like construction) within the city; provided,
however, that duly licensed wholesalers may sell fireworks to retailers for
resale outside the city; and provided further, that persons having a permit
issued under authority of M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A, may purchase
fireworks and display them in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter
148 and in compliance with the rules and regulations of the Department of
Public Safety.
(CBC 1985 11-5B.1; Ord. 2001 c. 9)
11-5B.2   Penalty.
   Violators of any provision of this Section shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $300 nor more than $1,000.
(CBC 1985 11-5B.2; Ord. 2001 c. 9)
11-5B.3   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if any Section, part
or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair
any remaining Section, part or portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 11-5B.3; Ord. 2001 c. 9)
11-5C   REGISTRATION OF LABORATORIES.
11-5C.1   Purpose.
   As a commonwealth, regional, national and international medical, educational
and commercial center, the city is home to over 5,000 laboratories advancing
cutting edge technologies and techniques that seek to benefit the residents of
the city, the residents of the commonwealth and the United States and the
population of the world. In this pursuit, however, many laboratories utilize or
generate radioactive, infectious, toxic, hazardous or noxious substances,
chemicals or conditions. These substances, chemicals or conditions have the
latent and actual capacity to inflict grave harm upon people ill-equipped to
manage their harmful conditions in the event of a public health or public
safety emergency. The primary responders (for example, BFD, BPD and/or EMS) do
not currently have information that may prove critical to their emergency
response—they do not know where all of the laboratories are located in the city
and they do not know what is contained within these laboratories. These
Sections, by requiring registration of laboratories and inspections of
laboratories, will, once fully implemented, ensure that the public safety and
public health personnel have the information that they need to adequately,
effectively and safely respond to any emergencies occurring within laboratories
in order to protect the welfare of the laboratory, the neighborhood and the
greater population.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.1;Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically indicated otherwise, the definitions contained in Sections 11-4,
11-5 and 11-5A shall apply and control in these Sections.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Boston Fire Department.
   LABORATORY. A building, room or workplace designed and/or used for the
development, conduct or observation of scientific, including, but not limited
to, the medical, chemical, physical or biological disciplines, experimentation
or research, including non-routine testing, analysis, experimentation or other
similar activities that involve the use or storage of hazardous materials as
defined by Section 20.02(C) of the Boston Fire Department Fire Prevention Code.
Specifically excluded from this definition are classroom laboratories, dark
rooms, autoclave rooms, pharmacies, drug stores, physician’s offices or the
offices of other direct-care health care providers, hospital or health care
dispensaries or other facilities providing medication directly to patients.
   LABORATORY FACILITY. A building or a portion of a building containing one or
more laboratories operated by a single owner-operator. No laboratory facility
may be comprised of more than one building or physical address.
   OWNER. A person or entity that owns a laboratory or a laboratory facility.
   OWNER-OPERATOR. A person or entity that operates a laboratory and shall
include an owner-operator’s duly authorized Agent.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.2; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.3   Registration and Database.
   (A)   (1)   On or after January 1, but no later than April 1 of every
calendar year subsequent to the year of a laboratory’s or a laboratory
facility’s initial registration, every owner-operator shall register with the
Commissioner each and every laboratory or laboratory facility of the owner-
operator which shall include the most current information available to the
owner-operator, but in no event shall that information be less recent than
December 31 of the prior calendar year. The Commissioner shall prepare the
forms for registration which shall require the owner-operator to identify:
         (a)   The name and contact information of the owner-operator;
         (b)   The physical address of each and every laboratory facility of
the owner-operator; and
         (c)   The names and contact information of one or more emergency
coordinator(s) for each laboratory facility location.
      (2)   The forms for registration shall require the owner-operator to
certify that the laboratory facility is in compliance with Boston Fire
Prevention Code 86-1 with respect to the posting of signage for the
identification of hazardous materials located within a laboratory and a
laboratory facility. The forms for registration shall require the owner-
operator to certify that it has adopted an internal set of written policies,
practices and/or procedures to ensure compliance with these Sections.
   (B)   The emergency coordinator identified in the registration may be a 24
hour per day, seven days per week, 365 days per year operations center of the
owner-operator; provided that the operations center has 24 hour per day, seven
days per week, 365 days per year access to an individual with proficiency and
knowledge of the facilities and operations in the laboratory or laboratory
facility related to the requirements of these Sections.
   (C)   All registration forms shall be completed by the owner-operator of the
laboratory or laboratory facility and executed by the owner-operator under the
pains and penalties of perjury.
   (D)   The Commissioner may develop and provide a process for an electronic
method of registration by owner-operators.
   (E)   For public safety purposes only, the Commissioner shall, on or before
July 1 of every calendar year, prepare a database of the information collected
pursuant to the registration of laboratories and/or laboratory facilities which
shall be accessible by the Boston Fire Department, the Boston Police
Department, the Boston Public Health Commission, the Boston Emergency Medical
Services, the Boston Emergency Management Agency and the Inspectional Services
Department and which shall be added to the city’s Public Safety Computer-Aided
Dispatch (“CAD”) System. The Commissioner shall make a hard copy of this
database available to its district stations.
   (F)   As long as they are located within the same building and at the same
physical address, an owner-operator may elect to aggregate laboratories into a
laboratory facility for purposes of these Sections. In no event may a
laboratory or a laboratory facility include laboratories or laboratory
facilities that are not in the same building and at the same physical address.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.3; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.4   Boston Fire Prevention Code.
   Each laboratory and/or laboratory facility shall comply with Boston Fire
Prevention Code 86-1, as it may be revised or replaced, with respect to the
posting of signage for the identification of hazardous materials located within
the laboratory and/or laboratory facility.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.4; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.5   Emergency Data and Response Plans.
   (A)   The owner-operator of each laboratory and/or laboratory facility shall
maintain hard copy or soft copy of information, or the means to immediately
obtain the information, at the laboratory or laboratory facility that, in an
emergency, shall be immediately available to the owner-operator and to the
first responders such as the Boston Fire Department, the Boston Police
Department or Emergency Medical Services, as well as other local, commonwealth,
regional or federal public health or public safety Agencies that may be
required to respond to an emergency or incident at a laboratory or a laboratory
facility and that includes, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Floor plans or other means or materials to assist first responders
in locating laboratories within a laboratory facility;
      (2)   Name and contact information of at least one emergency coordinator
for the laboratory or laboratory facility who is knowledgeable about the nature
of the operations and/or the hazards that may be located or who has immediate
access to a person who is knowledgeable about the nature of the operations and/
or the hazards that may be located in the laboratories located within the
laboratory facility;
      (3)   Access cards and/or keys to all laboratories in the laboratory
facility; and
      (4)   Any additional information reasonably requested by the Boston Fire
Department during its pre-incident planning process with the owner-operator to
identify the means by which a first responder may obtain information about
special or unique hazardous materials that might be present in specific
laboratories, including material safety data sheet access instructions for
those materials where an emergency response may require unique protection of
person or property.
   (B)   The Commissioner is authorized to augment this list through the
promulgation of regulations upon consultation with the technical advisory group
appointed pursuant to these Sections.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.5;Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.6   Inspections.
   (A)   In order to ensure that the public health and the public safety are
protected and the city first responders are protected from the potential
hazards that may be posed by laboratories and/or laboratory facilities, on or
before the first anniversary of the passage of these Sections and subsequent to
analysis of the information collected through the registration processes
required by these Sections, the Commissioner shall implement a program of
inspection of laboratories and/or laboratory facilities. At the discretion of
the Commissioner, this programmatic inspection may require full physical
inspections of the laboratories and/or laboratory facilities or may require
only inspection of the laboratories’ or laboratory facilities’ compliance with
the registration requirements, emergency preparedness including, but not
limited to, the information required to be readily available to first
responders, and signage.
   (B)   The Commissioner may collaborate and cooperate with the Commissioner
of the Inspectional Services Department in developing a program of inspections.
   (C)   If any owner-operator knowingly impedes, inhibits, interferes with,
restricts or obstructs entry and free access to the laboratory and/or the
laboratory facility for the purposes delineated in these Sections, then the
Commissioner and/or the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department
may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows
for the inspection of the site and apprises said owner-operator concerning the
nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for
the inspection and may seek the assistance of the law enforcement community in
presenting said warrant.
   (D)   If any person knowingly impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts
or obstructs entry and free access to the laboratory and/or the laboratory
facility for the purposes delineated in these Sections, then the Commissioner
or the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court
of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection
of the site and apprises said person or other person concerning the nature of
the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for the
inspection and may seek the assistance of the law enforcement community in
presenting said warrant.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.6; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.7   Registration and Inspection Guide.
   (A)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department shall prepare for public distribution a guide of not more than two
pages which summarizes the registration and inspection requirements. The
requirements of this Section may be satisfied through the publication or
presentation of the guide in a downloadable format on the city’s website. Each
and every owner-operator shall ensure that a hard copy of this guide is posted
at all times in the laboratory facility in a place clearly visible to all
persons employed by or working in the laboratory facility. An owner-operator
may supplement this posting requirement through electronic distribution or
electronic posting of this guide and such methods may substitute for the
physical posting only with the approval of the Commissioner and the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department.
   (B)   Each and every owner shall annually supply hard copy of the
registration and inspection guide to each and every laboratory in each and
every laboratory facility owned by the owner.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.7; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.8   Registration Fee.
   (A)   The annual registration fee shall be derived according to total area
of the laboratory or laboratory facility submitting the registration as
follows:
      (1)   A laboratory or laboratory facility with one square foot to 25,000
square feet shall remit $650;
      (2)   A laboratory or laboratory facility with 25,001 square feet to
100,000 square feet shall remit $800;
      (3)   A laboratory’ or laboratory facility with 100,001 square feet to
250,000 square feet shall remit $975; and
      (4)   A laboratory or laboratory facility with 250,001 square feet or
more shall remit $1,300. In no event, however, shall any single owner-operator
pay more than $6,500 to register a laboratory, laboratory facility or number of
laboratory facilities pursuant to this Section.
   (B)   The fee for registration of a laboratory or a laboratory facility
shall be remitted by the owner- operator at the time of registration. The fee
is intended to generate enough revenue to ensure that the costs of
implementation and continuation of this registration program are wholly covered
by the registration fees.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.8; Ord. 2006 c. 4; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 64)
11-5C.9   Violations, Penalties and Enforcement.
   (A)   Violations of these Sections specifically include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   The failure to register in accordance with these Sections;
      (2)   The failure to maintain a complete emergency data and response plan
in accordance with these Sections;
      (3)   The failure to post a guide in accordance with these Sections;
      (4)   The failure to comply with any other requirement of these Sections;
and
      (5)   The interference with an inspection.
   (B)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department shall have the authority to seek an injunction from a court of
competent jurisdiction directing the owner-operator to comply with the
requirements of these Sections.
   (C)   Each and every violation of this Section shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $50 and not more than $300 and these fines shall supplement
any other fines promulgated in the General Laws of the commonwealth, the Code
of Massachusetts Regulations and this code. Each and every day that a violation
remains shall constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to
enforce these Sections.
   (E)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department shall have the authority to delegate enforcement of these Sections
to any City Department authorized to enforce public safety, public health or
environmental rules, regulations, ordinances and/or statutes.
   (F)   Nothing in these Sections shall prohibit the Commissioner or the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department from issuing written
warnings to an owner-operator or any other person or entity. For the purposes
of this Section, the Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services
Department may not issue more than two warnings for the same violation in a
laboratory and/or laboratory facility to any owner-operator, person or entity.
   (G)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services
Department may commence an action in the Courts of the commonwealth for
violations that remain uncorrected for more than 30 calendar days and for fines
that remain unpaid for more than 60 calendar days.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.9; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.10   Technical Advisory Committee.
   The Commissioner shall appoint 12 people to a Technical Advisory Committee
(“TAC”) that shall be composed of six representatives of the research
laboratory community and six public officials. The TAC shall meet at least
twice annually to promote the understanding of hazards and mitigation measures
in the laboratory environment, to exchange best practices in laboratory
operations, to promote consistent application of the requirements of these
Sections and to devise the parameters and execution of the programmatic
inspections anticipated by these Sections.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.10; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.11   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary to implement and enforce these Sections and shall consult with the
Technical Advisory Committee appointed pursuant to these Sections.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.11; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.12   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.12; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-5C.13   Implementation.
   (A)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall
prepare and promulgate the documents and forms required by these Sections
within 90 calendar days of passage.
   (B)   Each and every owner-operator shall submit the registration materials
required by these Sections within 90 calendar days of promulgation of documents
and forms by the Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services.
(CBC 1985 11-5C.13; Ord. 2006 c. 4)
11-6   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
11-6.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner.
   (A)   There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Public Works
Department, which shall be under the charge of an Officer known as the
Commissioner of Public Works, who shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term
expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected and who may be removed by the
Mayor with or without cause.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall construct all streets; shall have the
discretionary power as to the grades, materials and other particulars of
construction of streets and sidewalks; shall have charge of and keep clean and
in good condition and repair the streets, including the portions of
Commonwealth Avenue previously under the control of the Parks and Recreation
Commission; shall remove and dispose of, at the expense of the Public Works
Department, all refuse and recycling from buildings occupied by the city except
those under the control of the School Committee; shall remove and dispose of
the acceptable refuse and recycling from privately owned properties, including,
but not limited to, homes, condominiums and apartment buildings; and shall
promulgate rules and regulations consistent with and/or in compliance with all
applicable commonwealth regulations to govern such removal. The Commissioner
shall not be required to take any refuse or recycling from any commercial,
nonprofit, educational, business, retail or manufacturing establishments or any
refuse or recycling not generated within the city.
(Ord. October 7, 1833; Ord. 1908 c. 3; Ord. 1910 c. 9; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 45;
Ord. 1955 c. 3; Ord. 1956 c. 8; Ord. 1959 c. 7 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 1;
CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 150; CBC 1985 11-6.1; Ord. 2010 c. 6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-1.4; Ord. ss 7-4.2; Statutes, Title 15 Chapter 1
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.2   Deputy Commissioner.
   The Commissioner may, from time to time, by a writing approved by the Mayor
and deposited with the City Auditor, designate, for such period as may be
specified therein, one of his or her division engineers to be Deputy
Commissioner. The Deputy Commissioner shall have authority, by virtue of such
designation, to approve and sign bills, drafts, pay rolls and requisitions and
to perform such other routine duties as the Commissioner may require, but shall
not have authority to make any permanent appointments nor to make contracts,
except in the absence of the Commissioner, and then only under a separate
authorization under Subsection 5-5.29.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 151; CBC 1985 11-6.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.29
11-6.3   Use of Public Ways.
   The Commissioner shall have the jurisdiction vested by statute in the Board
of Street Commissioners in relation to the planting and removal of trees in the
public ways and to the use of public ways for any temporary obstruction or
projection in, under or over the same; but such jurisdiction shall only be
exercised with the written approval of the Mayor in each instance. The
Commissioner shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or
imposed by statute on the Board of Street Commissioners in relation to the use
of parts of public ways for the storage and sale of merchandise. When
establishing rules or regulations for the dates of temporary license periods
for the use of public space for sidewalk cafés, the Commissioner shall make
licenses available year-round. However, nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent the Commissioner from imposing additional requirements on year-round
licenses.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 46; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 152; CBC
1985 11-6.3; Ord. 2009 c. 3)
11-6.4   Street Lighting.
   The Commissioner shall have charge of all lamps established by the Boston
City Council and maintained at the expense of the city, of all lamps set up in
parks, parkways or public grounds, and of all lamp-posts, posts or fixtures
connected with such lamps, and shall set up and affix lamps in the streets;
shall have the care and custody of all city property used or hereafter acquired
for the purpose of street lighting, and shall maintain and keep the same in
good repair.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 153)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 7-4.7
11-6.5   Bridges.
   The Commissioner shall have the care and management of all bridges which are
used as highways, and are in whole or in part under the charge of the City;
shall keep the railings and wearing surface in good order and shall remove all
dirt, snow and ice from the sidewalks; shall keep all said bridges, or those
parts thereof under his or her care, and the abutments, guards, draws and
wharves thereof, clean and in good condition and repair; shall appoint
drawtenders for the draws in bridges of which he or she has the care, and see
that they properly perform their duties, and may remove them for such cause as
he or she shall deem sufficient; and shall assign in his or her order of
removal. Each drawtender so appointed shall take charge by night and by day of
the draw of which he or she is drawtender; shall require from the person in
charge of a vessel applying to pass through the draw a true statement of the
name, extreme width and draught of the vessel; shall determine the order in
which vessels may pass through the draw; and may direct the placing of warping-
lines, anchors and cables, and the use of any warping apparatus provided by the
city; shall cause the draw to be opened for the passage of vessels in
accordance with the regulations of the Department of the Army; shall cause the
draw to be closed with all possible expedition after a vessel has passed
through, not permitting more than one vessel to pass through at one opening of
the draw, except that, when the draw is open and the bridge is free from
persons desiring to cross, he or she may, in his or her discretion, permit
other vessels to pass through before causing the draw to be closed; and shall
perform such additional duties as said Commissioner may require.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 154; CBC 1985 11-6.5)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 11 § 30
11-6.6   Record of Sewer Construction.
   The Commissioner shall keep a book in which he or she shall record the date
of every order for constructing a sewer, the name of the contractor or builder
constructing it, the date of commencing and the date of completing the work and
the cost of the sewer. He or she shall make and deliver to the Collector-
Treasurer all bills for assessments as they become due.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 155; CBC 1985 11-6.6)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.5
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.7   Sewer Plans.
   The Commissioner shall keep a plan for every existing and every new sewer,
showing its depth, breadth, mode of construction and general direction, and
shall, from time to time, ascertain and insert on such plans all entries made
into the sewers.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 156; CBC 1985 11-6.7)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.8   Notice of Sewer and Street Work.
   The Commissioner shall, when about to build a new sewer or repair an old
sewer, notify all abutters on that part of the line of said sewer when he or
she proposes to do work, and afford them facilities for entering the sewer; and
shall, when about to construct a new street, at least four weeks before
beginning work, and, when about to make a new surface of any street, at least
two weeks before beginning work, notify all Departments and persons authorized
to place any structure in such street, and require and see that all Departments
and persons having any work to be done in the streets so designated shall do
all such work before the surface of such street is again prepared for and
opened to public travel; and, after the completion of the work then done on
such street, shall not, for one year thereafter, permit any Department or
person to disturb the surface of such street or way within the area of such
previous disturbance, except in case of obvious necessity; and shall make a
record of the permits issued in such cases in a book to be kept for that
purpose.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 157; CBC 1985 11-6.8)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.9   Permits for Street Work; Conditions Thereof.
   (A)   The Commissioner may issue permits to persons having authority in the
premises to open, occupy, obstruct and use portions of the streets. Such
permits shall specify the time, place, size and use of such opening, occupation
or obstruction, and shall be granted upon condition the terms of which shall be
those stated in Subsection 5-5.30, and upon the further conditions as follows.
      (1)   The restoration of the paving or other surface of such streets
shall be effected by the city as directed by the Commissioner, the work to be
done by city employees or by contract or otherwise at his or her discretion,
the standard, type and extent of the repairs necessary to effect such
restoration to be determined by him or her and to be paid for by the person
receiving the permit, such payment to be made in advance on the basis of the
Commissioner’s estimate or during the progress or after the completion of the
restoration as the Commissioner may elect.
      (2)   The person receiving the permit shall place and maintain from the
beginning of twilight, through the whole of every night, over or near the place
so occupied, opened, obstructed or used, and over or near any dirt, gravel or
other material placed in or near such place, a light or lights sufficient to
protect travelers from injury; shall place and maintain a safe and convenient
way, satisfactory to the Commissioner, for the use of foot travelers and for
vehicles around or over such place; shall protect such trees as shall be
designated by the Parks and Recreation Department in such manner as said
Department shall specify; shall provide suitable sanitary accommodations for
his or her employees; and shall deliver the coupon attached to the permit to an
Officer of the Police Force of said city on or before the expiration of the
time fixed in the permit for completing the work, such coupon to be returned by
said Officer to the Public Works Department.
      (3)   The Commissioner may detail an inspector, at the expense of the
person receiving the permit, to supervise said opening, occupation and use and
to see that the backfilling is properly done.
      (4)   The Commissioner may require the person receiving the permit to
enclose the place in the streets so opened, occupied or used, with a rail,
fence or other guard as specified by the Commissioner.
      (5)   The Commissioner shall require the person receiving the permit to
maintain at the expense of such person as many Boston Police Officers on
special duty (outside their regular tour of duty), as the Police Commissioner
may determine necessary to protect the safety and general welfare of the public
and to preserve the free circulation of traffic (but in no event less than one
Boston Police Officer). This clause shall not prohibit reimbursement of such
person for such expense if a contract between such person and the city or any
other person provides such reimbursement. It shall be the duty of the Public
Works Commissioner to ascertain compliance of this Section prior to issuance of
the permit.
      (6)   The Commissioner shall require the person receiving the permit to
maintain at the expense of such person an accessible path of travel which meets
both Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.,
and the commonwealth’s Architectural Access Board requirements.
      (7)   The Commissioner shall require that the person receiving the permit
ensures that all construction be in compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act and the regulations of the commonwealth’s Architectural Board.
   (B)   If any person having the authority in the premises to open, occupy,
obstruct and use portions of the streets is exempt from obtaining a permit by
the Commissioner, said person shall remain subject to divisions (A)(6) and (7)
above.
   (C)   Any violation of the above ordinance shall be punished by a fine of
$50.
(Ord. 1966 c. 5; Ord. 1967 c. 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 § 9; CBC 1975
Ord. T11 § 158; Ord. 1976 c. 4; Ord. 1977 c. 6, c. 14; CBC 1985 11-6.9; Ord.
2008 c. 11)
Cross-reference:
   St. T.4 c. 1; Ord. ss 7-1.3; ss 7-4.7
11-6.10   Permits to Enter Drains.
   The Commissioner may issue such a permit to competent mechanics for the
purpose of entering particular drains into public drains and sewers, on
condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in
addition that the person applying for the permit shall make connection of such
drain with such sewer only in the manner shown on the back of the permit, and
only in the presence of an inspector of the Sewer Division; shall have on the
ground, when the inspector arrives to see the connection made, any slant, bend
or curve to be used in making the connection; shall not cover up any work until
inspected by one of such inspectors; shall not lay the drain in the same trench
with a water pipe; shall not connect any exhaust from a steam engine, any blow-
off from a steam boiler or any other pipe for delivering steam or hot water,
with the drain or sewer. The Commissioner shall in each drain permit specify
the size, material and mode of construction of the particular drain, and the
direction and grade for laying it.
(Ord. 1960 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 159; CBC
1985 11-6.10)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.11   Permits to Obstruct Sidewalks.
   The Commissioner may issue such a permit to a responsible person for the
purpose of raising and lowering goods and merchandise into and from buildings,
on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 5-5.28, and
in addition that the person applying for the permit shall maintain, during the
whole time the work is in progress, good and sufficient barriers across the
sidewalk, from the wall of the building to or from which the goods or
merchandise are so raised out to the curbstone or edge of the sidewalk, on each
side of said goods or merchandise, sufficient to protect travelers from injury
or danger; and shall not encumber the sidewalk for more than 15 minutes at a
time for such work.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 160; CBC 1985 11-6.11)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.28
11-6.12   Permits for Coal Holes.
   The Commissioner shall issue such a permit to any person authorized by the
Public Improvement Commission to place a coal hole, vault or coal slide under a
street, or a cover thereto, on condition the terms of which shall be those
stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition that the person applying for the
permit shall make the underground structure of suitable construction
satisfactory to the Commissioner, and shall pay such fee as may be prescribed
by ordinance; shall make the opening of a coal hole or coal slide circular, and
not more than 18 inches in diameter, and furnish a cover therefor of iron, made
with a rough upper surface, and with three or more iron rods or legs at least 2
feet in length, fitting closely to the side of the opening, and projecting
downwards from the underside of the cover, and so constructed that, while the
cover can be lifted perpendicularly, it cannot be tipped or easily removed from
the opening.
(Reg. Bd. of Ald. October 19, 1863; Rev. Ord. 1890 c. 18 § 8; Ord. 1954 c. 2 §
49; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 161; CBC 1985 11-6.12)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 8-7.1
11-6.13   Permits to Move Buildings.
   The Commissioner shall issue such a permit to a building mover actually
engaged in the business, for the purpose of moving a building through the
streets, on condition, the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection
11-6.9; provided that an application for such permit, describing the location
from and to which, and the route over which, the building is to be moved, the
length, width and height of the building, and the principal material of its
exterior and roof, and accompanied by the written consent of the Building
Commissioner to the placing of the building on the lot proposed, shall be first
made to the Commissioner. Whenever it appears that the moving of a building
will encumber the tracks of any railroad corporation, a public hearing shall be
given by the Commissioner upon the subject before such permit is issued.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 50; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 162; CBC
1985 11-6.13)
11-6.14   Permits for Laying Wires, Rails, Pipes and Conduits.
   The Commissioner shall, when authorized thereto by an order of the Public
Improvement Commission, issue such a permit to a responsible person for the
purpose of laying, maintaining and using wires, railway tracks or rails in the
streets, or wires, pipes or conduits under the surface thereof, on condition
the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition
that the person applying for the permit shall, whenever requested so to do by
the Mayor, furnish in his or her conduits for wires accommodations free of
charge for all wires belonging to, or to be used by, the city; shall remove the
conduits and wires whenever directed, and not until directed, so to do by an
order of the public improvement commission approved by the Mayor; and shall not
disturb or interfere with any wires, pipes or sewers lawfully laid in such
street or connected therewith.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 51; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 163; CBC
1985 11-6.14)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 8 § 500
11-6.15   Permits for Poles.
   The Commissioner shall, when authorized thereto by an order of the Public
Improvement Commission, issue such a permit to a responsible person for the
purpose of placing and maintaining in the streets poles for the support of
wires, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-
6.9 and in addition that the person applying for the permit shall keep the
poles well painted and in good condition, to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner; shall place the wires on the poles not less than 21 feet from the
ground; shall keep the name of the person owning the pole distinctly painted on
the crossbars used and occupied by him or her on the pole, and also on the pole
at a point not less than 6 feet nor more than 8 feet from the ground; shall
allow the Departments of the city the exclusive use of the lowest crossbar of
each pole, free of all charge, for the purpose of placing wires thereon; shall
not suffer or permit any other person to place or keep wires on the poles, or
upon the fixtures thereto affixed, without permission being first obtained in
writing from the Public Improvement Commission; shall not remove any pole
erected under the order until, and shall remove any pole when, directed by the
Public Improvement Commission so to do; and that on the violation of any term
of these conditions the Commissioner shall remove the poles at the expense of
the person owning them.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 51; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 164; CBC
1985 11-6.15)
11-6.16   Bonds Required Before Delivery of Permits.
   The Commissioner shall not deliver any such permit to any person for the
applicant therefor until he or she has received from such person a certificate
that a copy of the permit entered in a book kept for the purpose, is a correct
copy of the permit he or she receives, and the applicant, unless an employee of
the city applying for a permit for public work, has given a bond in the case of
permits under Subsections 11-6.9, 11-6.10, 11-6.11, 11-6.12 and 11-6.13, of
$5,000, and under Subsections 11-6.14 and 11-6.15, of $20,000, each bond, with
one or more sureties satisfactory to the Commissioner, conditioned upon the
faithful observance of the conditions and specifications of each and every
permit thereafter issued on his or her application by the Commissioner; and the
Commissioner may at any time require a new bond, which shall be considered a
strengthening bond, unless the sureties on the former bond or bonds are
expressly released from their liability by vote of the City Council. No bond
shall be required of any person to open a public street for the purpose of
planting a tree therein if such person has been duly authorized by the proper
municipal authorities to plant trees in such street. No bond shall be required
of any person to occupy a street for the purpose of standing a moving truck at
curb while loading and unloading contents of a residence or a business as
defined by Subsection 18-1.16(I). No bond shall be required of any person to
occupy a street for the sole purpose of standing a vehicle at a curb in
connection with the delivery of goods to a residence or a business as defined
by 18-1.16(J).
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 16; Ord. 1964 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 §
16; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 165; CBC 1985 11-6.16; Ord. 2011 c. 4; Ord. 2018 c. 8)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 6-3.4; Ord. ss 7-4.8
11-6.17   Permits Prohibited.
   The Commissioner shall not issue any such permit to a person who has within
12 months previous to his or her application violated or failed to observe the
conditions or specifications of any such permit.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 17; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 166; CBC 1985 11-6.17)
11-6.18   Indemnity for City.
   Every owner of an estate hereafter maintaining any cellar, vault, coal hole
or other excavation under the part of the street which is adjacent to, or part
of, his or her estate, shall do so only on condition that such maintenance
shall be considered as an agreement on his or her part to hold the city
harmless from any claims for damage to himself or herself or the occupants of
such estate resulting from gas, sewage or water leaking into such excavation or
upon such estate; and every such owner and every person maintaining a post,
pole or other structure in a street, or a wire, pipe, conduit or other
structure under a street, shall do so only on condition that such maintenance
shall be considered as an agreement on his or her part with the city to keep
the same and the covers thereof in good repair and condition at all times
during his or her ownership and to indemnify and save harmless the city against
any and all damages, costs, expenses or compensation which it may sustain or be
required to pay, by reason of such excavation or structure being under or in
the street, or being out of repair during his or her ownership, or by reason of
any cover of the same being out of repair or unfastened during his or her
ownership.
(304 Mass. 18; Reg. Bd. of Ald. October 19, 1863; Rev. Ord. 1890 c. 18 § 12;
Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 18; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 167; CBC 1985 11-6.18)
11-6.19   Appurtenant Structures in the Public Way.
   The term APPURTENANT STRUCTURES IN THE PUBLIC WAY shall include, but not be
limited to, poles, hydrants, surface access to gates, valves and meters,
manhole frames, pullbox frames, catch basin inlet frames, signs, shelters and
any structural supports approved by the Public Improvement Commission.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.19)
11-6.20   Responsibility for Condition and Maintenance of Pavement.
   Any person, corporation, trust, partnership, governmental body, Board,
Commission, Authority, Agency or body politic and corporate who occupies the
public or private ways of the city with proper permit from the Public Works
Department or otherwise, as a condition of such occupation, shall be
responsible and liable for the maintenance and restoration of all pavement
within 30 inches of any and all of the appurtenant structures where they
intersect the surface of the public way, roadway or sidewalk, and shall
maintain said areas and repair any defect in its entirety which lies wholly or
in part in the said area. Defects shall include, but not be limited to: pot
holes, chuckholes, frost heaves, cracking, spalling, settling, delaminating or
patch repair. Repairs and restorations made by the above-mentioned parties
shall be made in accordance with the specifications of, and under permit from
the Boston Public Works Department, and at no cost to the city.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.20)
11-6.21   Indemnity for City: Pavement Defects.
   (A)   Each person, corporation, trust, partnership, governmental Board,
Commission, Authority, Agency or body politic and corporate, occupying the
public or private way, as a condition of such occupation, shall forever
indemnify and save harmless the city against all claims and demands of all
persons for damages, costs, expenses or compensation for, on account of, or in
any way growing out of or the result of any surface defect occurring wholly or
in part within the area described in Subsection 11-6.20.
   (B)   When the city constructs or reconstructs the pavement adjacent to any
of the above-mentioned structures, such action shall not abrogate the
responsibility of the above-mentioned parties.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.21)
11-6.22   Temporary Repairs on Private Ways.
   (A)   Petition for temporary repair. Under the authority of Chapter 693, of
1977, appearing as M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 6N, the city shall, when
necessity dictates, cause temporary repairs to be made on private ways which
have been opened to public use for six years or more. Upon the filing of a
petition signed by owners of 50% or more of the property parcels abutting a
private way, the Commission of Public Works, or qualified designee, shall
inspect and determine what temporary relief measures may be taken to fill
depressions to make the roadway satisfactory for vehicular use.
   (B)   City to assume cost of temporary repairs. Temporary repairs shall be
at city expense, but only include the filling of holes and depressions with
sand, gravel, cinders or other suitable materials and shall not include the
resurfacing or permanent construction of private ways.
   (C)   Cost of resurfacing or permanent patching. At the request of owners of
a majority of property lots abutting a private way, the Public Works
Commissioner, or his or her designee, may arrange for resurfacing or permanent
patching of depressions in an existing paved way on a shared cost basis. The
extent of such work shall be agreed to in advance by owners, who collectively
will be assessed half the costs of such work.
   (D)   Apportionment of charges of permanent repair. Betterments or charges
will be apportioned on the ratio of frontage owned on such private way.
Taxpaying owners may pay cost in cash or have them assessed as betterments over
a period of years. Tax-exempt properties will be charged for their respective
share of work. The Public Works Commissioner shall supervise such work and may
require that present or potential drainage problems be resolved as part of the
undertaking.
(Ord. 1979 c. 10, §§ 1-3; CBC 1985 11-6.22)
11-6.23   Responsibility for Area Surrounding Tracks and Rails.
   All persons, corporations, trusts, partnerships, governmental bodies,
Boards, Commissions, Authorities, Agencies or bodies politic and corporate who
occupy the public way with tracks or rails for any purpose, as a condition of
such occupation, shall be responsible and liable for the maintenance and
restoration of all pavement within 24 inches of outside rails, within the
limits of the tracks itself and the area between two sets of tracks where two
sets of tracks exist together. The above-mentioned parties shall maintain said
areas and repair any defect in its entirety which lies wholly or in part in the
said area. Defects shall include, but not be limited to: pot holes, chuckholes,
frost heaves, cracking, spalling, settling, delaminating or patch repair.
Repairs shall be made according to the specifications of the Public Works
Department, city and at no cost to said city.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.23)
11-6.24   Indemnity for City; Tracks and Rails.
   (A)   The above-mentioned parties, as a condition of such occupation, shall
forever indemnify and save harmless the city against all claims and demands of
all persons for damages, costs, expenses or compensation for, on account of or
in any way growing out of, or as the result of any surface defect occurring
wholly or in part within the area described in Subsection 11-6.23.
   (B)   When the city, constructs or reconstructs, repairs or repaves the
above-mentioned pavement, this action shall not abrogate the responsibility of
the above-mentioned parties.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.24)
11-6.25   Capital Improvement.
   The above-mentioned parties are required to cooperate with any capital
improvement desired by the city in that they must repave or reconstruct the
above-mentioned areas, to Public Works Department standards, to ensure the
overall continuity of the project.
(Ord. 1983 c. 2; CBC 1985 11-6.25)
11-6.26   Guards for Steps and Entrances.
   The Commissioner shall require every person who maintains an entrance on a
level with or below, or a flight of steps descending immediately from or near,
the line of the street, which is not otherwise safely guarded to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner, to enclose such entrance or steps with a
permanent iron railing on each side at least 3 feet high from the top of the
sidewalk or pavement, and to provide the same with a gate opening inwardly, or
with two iron chains across the entrance way, one near the top and the other
half way from the ground to the top of the railing, and to keep such gates or
chains closed during the night, unless the entrance or steps are sufficiently
lighted to prevent accident.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 168; CBC 1985 11-6.26)
11-6.27   Excavations Under Sidewalk.
   The Commissioner shall close and fill up, at the expense of the owner of the
premises abutting on a sidewalk, any excavation under such sidewalk, whether
constructed under a permit or not, which has not been closed and filled up
within five days after the Public Improvement Commission has ordered the owner
so to do.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 52; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 20; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 169; CBC
1985 11-6.27)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 8-7.1; Statutes, Title 14 § 155
11-6.28   Record of Notices of Defects.
   The Commissioner shall keep a record of the notices of defects in streets
sent to him or her, with the name of the person giving the notice and the time
when given, and shall without delay cause the locality of the alleged defect to
be examined, and, if the defect is of such a character as to endanger the
safety of public travel, shall do whatever may be necessary to protect the
public from injury by the defect, and shall cause it to be immediately
repaired.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 21; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 170; CBC 1985 11-6.28)
11-6.29   Water Supply.
   The Commissioner shall have the care and control of all property acquired or
held by the city for the purposes of its water supply; shall maintain the same
in good order and condition; shall use and operate the same and furnish all
supplies required therefor; shall purchase, lay, maintain and test all meters,
pipes and other fixtures and appliances necessary for supplying water to the
inhabitants of the city, including the placing of drinking fountains and
supplying the same with cold water; shall take all measures necessary to
protect and preserve the purity of the water; shall exercise a constant
supervision over the use of water; shall have control of the water supply and
may in a public emergency shut the water off and let it on at such times as he
or she deems necessary; shall, with the approval of the Mayor, from time to
time determine and establish the rates for the use of water; shall, whenever a
water rate has remained unpaid for 30 days after its due date, send notice to
the owner or tenant of the premises to which the water is supplied, that the
water rate has become a lien on the premises and that if the water rate
continues to remain unpaid, the water will be shut off; shall, if a water rate
is not paid within ten days after sending the notice herein provided for, shut
off the water from the particular service unless such action is inconsistent
with law or unless, in the opinion of a physician designated by the
Commissioner, the shutting off of such water would endanger the life of any
person; shall not let on again water shut off for nonpayment of a water rate
until a service charge of $2, in addition to the amount of the unpaid account,
is paid except where the law requires the letting on again of the water without
the payment of the unpaid account. However, the Commissioner may, in his or her
discretion, waive the payment of such $2 service charge where the unpaid
account is less than $20. The provisions relative to the shutting off and
letting on of water shall apply when two or more persons take water from the
same service pipe although one or more may have been paid the amount due from
him or them. No charge shall be made for sending the notice herein provided
for.
(Ord. 1941 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 22; CBC 1975 Ord. Tl1 § 171; CBC 1985
11-6.29)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.30   Water Bills.
   The Commissioner shall, consistently with the ordinances, make contracts for
the sale of water, and send out bills therefor, which shall be payable to the
Collector-Treasurer; shall provide that bills for specific supplies of water
shall be due and payable in advance and actually paid before the water is let
on, that bills for water furnished and measured by meter shall not be less than
$8 during any consecutive 12 months’ period and shall be due and payable on the
due date specified on each bill rendered, and that the due dates thus specified
shall be so established as to require payments at least as often as semi-
annually. All contracts shall stipulate that an omission to send or a failure
to receive a water bill under this Section or a notice under the preceding
Section shall not affect the validity either of the water rate or of the
proceedings for its enforcement or collection.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 53; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 23; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 172; CBC
1985 11-6.30)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-3.5
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.31   Water Income.
   The Commissioner may designate one of his or her subordinates to be the head
of the Water Division, who shall, if the Commissioner so directs, make
abatements of charges for water where improperly assessed and exercise the
powers of the Commissioner relative to the shutting off of water for nonpayment
of a water rate and the waiver of the service charge for the shutting off and
letting on of water; who shall also receive all money paid for service charges
for the shutting off and letting on of water and all money paid or deposited on
account of main, service, fire, elevator, motor and other pipes and the laying
thereof and for repair work; shall give a receipt in behalf of the city
therefor; shall pay, from the money so received, the amount found by him or her
to be due the person paying any such money, as excess over the amount due the
city; and shall, on or before the fifth day of every month, pay over the money
in his or her possession due the city, and account for all money so received by
him or her since the last accounting, as provided in Subsection 5-5.24.
(Ord. 1930 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 24; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 173; CBC 1985
11-6.31)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.32   Water Meters.
   The Commissioner shall, from time to time, as he or she deems necessary,
apply, remove and test water meters and maintain the same in good condition;
shall record, in a book kept for the purpose, a statement of the style, size,
number of each meter, date when purchased, location, date when set, reading at
such date, date when taken out, the reason therefor, the reading at such date,
a detailed statement of test and percentage of errors shown and the reading and
date when reset; also a description of all defects and repairs of such meters.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 25; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 174; CBC 1985 11-6.32)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.33   Shutting Off Water.
   The Commissioner, whenever the water has been shut off from any premises
because the bill for water has not been paid and there is a change in the
ownership of the premises, may let the water on again without waiting for the
payment of the amount due from the former owner. In case of contracts for
specific supplies, he or she shall shut off the water as soon as the contract
has been carried out.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 26; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 175; CBC 1985 11-6.33)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 4 § 1
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.34   Record of Water Takers.
   The Commissioner shall keep suitable books, in which shall be entered the
names of all persons who take water, the kind of building in which it is taken,
the name of the street and the number thereon, the nature of the use, the
number of taps and the rate assessed.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 27; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 176; CBC 1985 11-6.34)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.35   Regulations for Water Takers.
   The Commissioner shall cause the following regulations to be printed on
every bill for water, which regulations shall constitute a part of the contract
with every taker of water furnished by the city.
   (A)   Every water taker shall pay the rates for water furnished on his or
her application within the time and at the place specified in the bills
therefor; shall, at his or her own expense, keep the service pipes within his
or her premises, including any area or vault beneath the sidewalk, in good
order and repair and protected from frost; shall not allow the water to leak
away or run to waste; shall not—unless he or she pays the rates established
therefor or takes water by meter rates—use water from a hose; shall not use
water from a hose in any case, except during such days and hours and in such
manner as the Commissioner of Public Works may, from time to time, specify;
shall not make any changes in the pipes or water fixtures under the street or
within his or her premises, unless such change is approved by the Commissioner;
shall not conceal the purpose for which the water is used; shall allow the
Commissioner and persons authorized by him or her to enter the premises
supplied with water, examine the fixtures and ascertain the quantity of water
used, the manner of use and whether there is unnecessary waste; and shall
indemnify the city for all damages it may sustain or be required to pay in
consequence of any injury resulting from any violation of these regulations by
the water taker.
   (B)   Every water taker must stop the use of water for any purpose when
required to do so by the Commissioner of Public Works and must guard against
collapse of a boiler and other injuries liable to result from want of water, as
the water is liable to be shut off at any time without notice.
   (C)   No water taker shall, except in accordance with a written permit from
the Commissioner of Public Works or in case of fire in the neighborhood, allow
water to be taken from his or her premises, or use water for any purpose other
than those for which he or she pays, or open any hydrant attached to the water
pipes of the city.
   (D)   No water taker shall demand or be entitled to any abatement of his or
her water rates for any year on account of the premises being vacated, unless
they are vacated before January 1 and notice thereof is given to the
Commissioner of Public Works before February 1 of such year; nor shall any
water taker demand or be entitled to any abatement of rates, compensation or
damage on account of the shutting off, or the stopping of the use, of water for
any cause.
   (E)   The Commissioner of Public Works shall equip with water meters all new
services installed; shall, if a water taker refuses to allow a water meter to
be placed on his or her premises, cause the water to be shut off from the same;
may without notice, cause the water to be shut off from any premises or require
the use of water for any purpose designated by him or her to be stopped; and
may, if any water taker, whether supplied through an independent service pipe
or a service pipe used in common with another, violates any of these
regulations, cause the water to be shut off from all premises supplied by such
pipe until satisfied that the regulations will be observed and that all amounts
due for water have been paid to the Collector-Treasurer, together with such
further sum, not exceeding $10, as the Collector-Treasurer may require.
(St. 1907 c. 524; St. 1909 c. 177; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 54; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 §
28; CBC 1975 Ord, T11 § 177; CBC 1985 11-6.35)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-3.5; Statutes, Title 14 § 172
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
11-6.36   Engineering Work.
   Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Commissioner of Public Works
shall have full charge of all engineering work of every nature and description
connected with all public works and all public improvements, and shall make
such surveys, plans, estimates, statements and descriptions, and take such
levels, as any Officer of the city may need in the discharge of his or her
duties, and shall have the custody of all surveys and plans relating to the
laying out, relocating, altering, widening, constructing, making specific
repairs on and discontinuing public ways and alleys.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 55; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 29; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 178; CBC
1985 11-6.36)
11-6.37   Inspection and Measurement of Public Work.
   The Commissioner shall, by himself or herself or by his or her duly
authorized Agents, inspect and measure all public work done under his or her
direction by any Department by contract or otherwise, and the City Auditor, in
case any bill or estimate for such work is presented to him or her for
allowance, may require from the Commissioner a certificate for such bill or
estimate stating whether the materials have been furnished or the work done in
accordance with proper engineering standards or in accordance with the terms of
the contract for such work.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 30; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 179; CBC 1985 11-6.37)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-1.4
11-6.38   Discontinuance of Public Work.
   The Commissioner shall have authority to order any public work, whether done
by a Department or under contract or otherwise, to be discontinued,
reconstructed or removed, whenever in his or her opinion such work fails in any
manner to comply with or fulfill the terms, conditions, specifications and
requirements of any such contract or agreement, or fails in his or her opinion
to conform with proper engineering standards.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 31; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 180; CBC 1985 11-6.38)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 4 § 1
11-6.39   Charge Against Appropriations.
   Any expense incurred by the Commissioner in carrying out any of the
provisions of this Section, except as provided for by the appropriation for the
Department of Public Works, shall be charged to the several appropriations
under which the works are authorized or paid for, upon requisition of the
Commissioner.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 32; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 181; CBC 1985 11-6.39)
11-6.40   Division of Engineers; Qualifications.
   The Commissioner shall divide the Public Works Department, from time to
time, into an Engineering Division and such other Divisions as the Commissioner
shall adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department. Each Division
shall be in charge of a civil engineer of recognized standing in his or her
profession, who shall be an expert in the duties which may devolve upon him or
her, and shall devote his or her whole time to the work.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 56; Ord. 1960 c. 7; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 33; CBC 1975 T11 §
182; CBC 1985 11-6.40)
11-6.41   Certificate of Qualifications of Engineers.
   In appointing an engineer to take charge of a Division of the Department,
the Commissioner shall certify that he or she is a civil engineer of recognized
standing in the profession, that in the Commissioner’s opinion he or she is an
expert in the work which shall devolve upon him or her; that he or she is a
person specially fitted by education, training or experience to perform the
duties which may devolve upon him or her; and that the appointment is made
solely in the interest of the city, such certificate to be filed with the City
Clerk and to be open to public inspection.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 34; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 183; CBC 1985 11-6.41)
11-6.42   Annual Report.
   The Commissioner shall, in his or her annual report, include a statement of
the repairs and expenditures on each street and each bridge under his or her
charge, of the number of times each draw of a bridge has been operated for the
passage of vessels, of the number of vessels laden with cargo that have passed
through each draw, of the number of water takers and the purposes for which the
water is taken, of the number and kind of water meters installed during the
previous year, of the number and kind of water meters in use, of the number of
cases where the water has been shut off, and of the number and amount of
abatements which have been made during the preceding year on water rates.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 57; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 35; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 184; CBC
1985 11-6.42)
11-6.43   Vehicles Interfering with the Removal of Snow.
   (A)   For the purpose of plowing or removing snow from a street the
Commissioner of Public Works or such subordinate or subordinates (as defined in
Section 1-1(I)) as he or she may, from time to time, designate may remove, or
cause to be removed, to some convenient place, including in such term a public
garage and an open-air parking space, any vehicle in such street interfering
with the plowing or removal of snow therein, except a vehicle owned by the
commonwealth or a political subdivision thereof or by the United States. At the
time of such removal, a record in duplicate of the registration number of every
vehicle removed under this Subsection, a general description of such vehicle,
the date and time of removal and the place from which as well as the place to
which the vehicle is removed, shall be made by or for the Commissioner, who
shall keep one copy on file and forthwith send the other copy to the Police
Commissioner.
   (B)   The owner of every vehicle removed under this Subsection shall be
liable for the cost of such removal and of the storage charges, if any,
resulting therefrom; provided that the cost of removal shall not exceed $12 and
that the cost of storage shall not exceed $0.50 for the first hour (or fraction
thereof), or $0.10 for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof), of storage.
(Ord. 1945 c. 3; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 84; Ord. 1962 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup.
1971) c. 21 § 37; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 185; Ord. 1977 c. 12; CBC 1985 11-6.43)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21, Clause 16
11-6.44   Vehicles Interfering with the Collection of Garbage and Refuse.
   (A)   For the purpose of facilitating the collection of garbage and refuse,
the Commissioner of Public Works or such subordinate or subordinates (as
defined in Section 1-1(I)) as he or she may, from time to time, designate may
remove, or cause to be removed, to some convenient place in the city, including
in such term a public garage, from any portion of a public way in the city or
from any private way therein open to public use, any vehicle parked contrary to
a sign within 100 feet banning parking at such time and place, except a vehicle
owned by the commonwealth or a political subdivision thereof or by the United
States. At the time of such removal, a record in duplicate of the registration
number of every vehicle removed under this Subsection, a general description of
such vehicle, the date and time of removal and the place from which as well as
the place to which the vehicle is removed shall be made by or for the
Commissioner, who shall keep one copy on file and forthwith send the other copy
to the Police Commissioner.
   (B)   The owner of every vehicle removed under this Subsection shall be
liable for the cost of such removal and of the storage charges, if any,
resulting therefrom; provided that the cost of removal shall not exceed $12 and
that the cost of storage shall not exceed $0.50 for the first hour (or fraction
thereof), or $0.10 for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof), of storage.
(Ord. 1972 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 186; Ord. 1977 c. 13; CBC 1985 11-6.44)
Cross-reference:
   St. T. 11 § 258
11-7   PROPERTY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   Section 3 of Ordinance 1994 c. 6 amended the name of the Real Property
Department to the Property Management Department.
11-7.1   Property Management Board.
   (A)   Appointment; term; compensation. There shall be in the City a
Department, known as the Property Management Department, which shall be under
the charge of a Board, known as the Property Management Board, consisting of an
Officer, known as the Commissioner of Property Management, appointed by the
Mayor, who shall be Chair of the Board, an Officer, known as the Assistant
Commissioner of Property Management, appointed by the Mayor, and three other
Officers, known as Associate Commissioners of Property Management, appointed by
the Mayor. The Commissioner of Property Management and the Assistant
Commissioner of Property Management shall each be appointed for a term expiring
on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal
election at which a Mayor is elected and shall devote their whole time to the
work. As the term of any Associate Commissioner in Office when this Section
takes effect, or of any subsequent Associate Commissioner, expires, his or her
successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of three years. Any
vacancy in the Office of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor
for the unexpired term. The Associate Commissioners of Property Management
shall receive no compensation for their services as such Associate
Commissioners.
   (B)   Duties of the Board.
      (1)   The Property Management Board shall have the powers and perform the
duties conferred or imposed on the Board of Real Estate Commissioners by
Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943, as amended, and by Chapter 474 of the Acts of
1946, as amended. The Property Management Board shall also have the powers and
perform the duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Board of Street
Commissioners in relation to the abatement of taxes.
      (2)   The Property Management Board shall divide the Property Management
Department, from time to time, into such subdivisions as said Board shall
adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any existing law to the contrary,
the Commissioner of Property Management shall cause to be placed all future
lease agreements with lessees of municipality owned parking garages a provision
for Police security of patrons and their property. The determination as to the
amount of Police security shall be made by the Police Commissioner. Any Police
security so provided shall be performed by off-duty Boston Police Officers. In
no event shall there be less than one off-duty Police Officer employed in each
such garage. The hours of work of such off-duty Police Officers shall be
determined by the Police Commissioner.
(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 58; Rev. Ord. 1961 e. 22 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 250; Ord.
1981 c. 17; CBC 1985 11-7.1; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1943 c. 434; St. 1946 c. 474; Ord. ss 8-7.1; St. T.5 § 102
11-7.2   Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate.
   The Mayor shall appoint from the Property Management Board a Committee
consisting of the Chair and two other members to be known as the Committee on
Foreclosed Real Estate. Said Committee shall have the powers and perform the
duties conferred or imposed by law on the Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate
established under Section 4 of Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 251; CBC 1985 11-7.2; Ord. 1994
c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1943 c. 434 § 4
11-7.3   Powers and Duties of Commissioner; Superintendent of Markets.
   The Commissioner of Property Management shall have the powers and perform
the duties conferred or imposed on the Chair of the Board of Real Estate
Commissioners by Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943, as amended, and shall
exclusively have the powers, and perform the duties, of a Department Head with
respect to the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and
indemnification of subordinates for the Property Management Department (and the
several Officers thereof), and including also a Superintendent of Markets, who,
subject to the supervision and control of the Assistant Commissioner of
Property Management, shall have the charge and control of Faneuil-Hall Market
and Faneuil-Hall Market limits; shall preserve order therein; shall make such
changes, and place or allow to be placed in said market such pipes, drains and
other appliances, as he or she may deem proper; and shall take and forthwith
destroy any article of food which in his or her opinion is diseased,
unwholesome or tainted, and is kept for sale within such market limits. Said
Superintendent may assign stands within such market limits for the sale of
provisions and other articles, and may, at the expense of the owner thereof,
remove from one place or stand to another within such limits, or to, and to be
kept in, a proper storage place until the expense is paid, any merchandise,
vehicle or animal, not under the charge of any person, or not immediately so
removed on the direction of said Superintendent, or his or her deputies.
(St. 1943 c. 78; Ord. 1946 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 §
252; CBC 1985 11-7.3; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3; Ord. 1995 c. 3 § 2)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1943 c. 434; St. 1945 c. 652 § 2A.; St. 1951 c. 633 § 3
11-7.4   Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, Powers and Duties.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care,
custody and management of; shall make all repairs in and upon; and shall keep
in repair the furniture of, all buildings and parts of buildings belonging to
or hired by the city, not wholly in charge of one Department, or for which no
other provision is made by statute or ordinance, whether the same are used for
city or county purposes, and may, with the approval of the Mayor, hire such
buildings or rooms as may be required for such purposes; shall have the care
and control of the City Hall and the City Hall Annex; shall have the care and
custody of the flags belonging to the City Hall and to the Old State House;
shall display the national flag upon the City Hall on every day, except
Sundays, weather permitting; shall have charge of all city property in the
armories provided by the city for the militia; and shall cause to be included
in the annual report of the Property Management Board a statement of the kind
and amount of city property in such armories, of all buildings belonging to or
used by the city and of the land and appurtenances thereof; of the condition of
such buildings and land; and the nature and amount of the expenditures that
have been made during the preceding year relative thereto. In exercising care
and control of City Hall and all buildings belonging to or hired by the city,
the Assistant Commissioner shall provide suitable space no later than January
1, 1989 to be used as a child care center for children of city employees.
(Ord. July 1, 1850; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 253; CBC 1985
11-7.4; Ord. 1987 c. 17; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 1-2.4; 1-2.5
11-7.5   Assistant Commissioner of Property Management to Have Custody of
Faneuil Hall.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care,
custody and management of Faneuil Hall, shall, weather permitting, every day
except Sundays, display the national flag upon the building in which said hall
is located; shall, upon vote of the Boston City Council approved by the Mayor
and payment of the charge prescribed by Subsection 18-1.8(D), permit the use of
said Hall; and shall hold all persons signing the application for such permit
jointly and severally liable for all damage done to said Hall at or in
connection with the meeting for which such permit is granted.
(Ord. 1956 c. 7 § 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 254; CBC
1985 11-7.5; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. Section 1-3; Ord. Section 16-21
11-7.6   Lease of Stalls by Assistant Commissioner of Property Management.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall lease, from time to
time, by instruments approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel and
approved in writing by the Mayor, the stalls, cellars and second floor in
Faneuil Hall Market for terms of up to ten years at market rates as determined
by procedures customarily accepted by the appraising profession as valid and as
approved by Boston City Council and upon such other terms and conditions as may
be approved by the Corporation Counsel and the Mayor. The Assistant
Commissioner of Property Management may delegate his or her authority
hereunder; provided said delegation is approved as aforesaid.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 255; CBC 1985 11-7.6; Ord. 1994
c. 6 § 3; Ord. 2003 c. 22)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.4; Statutes T4 § 8; Ord. ss 5-8.1
11-7.7   Care of Dillaway House by Assistant Commissioner of Property
Management.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care,
custody and management of the Dillaway House, so called, in the Roxbury
district of the city, may establish rules and regulations for the use and
preservation of said house as a historical relic of the Revolutionary War, and
may, upon vote of the Boston City Council approved by the Mayor, let or lease
the whole or any part of said house to a historical society or other
association organized for historical purposes.
(Ord. 1934 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 256; CBC 1985
11-7.7; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
11-7.8   Designation of Ward-Rooms.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall designate, in the
places named in orders of the City Council, a suitable room to be used for a
ward-room for the ward in which it is situated. If any such room cannot be so
used at any time, said Assistant Commissioner shall provide accommodation
elsewhere for any public meeting in such ward for which he or she shall issue a
permit.
(St. 1914 c. 630; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 257; CBC 1985
11-7.8; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 54, Section 1; Ord. ss 2-3.2; Ord. ss 16-21
11-7.9   Assistant Commissioner to Have Custody of Ward-Rooms.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care and
custody of, shall determine the use of and provide for opening, closing,
lighting and heating the ward-rooms; shall frame and keep in some conspicuous
place therein a copy of this and the following Section, and as soon as a list
or a revised list of voters in a ward is prepared by the Election Commissioners
shall keep posted or hung up a copy thereof in the ward-room of the ward in
such a manner as to be readily accessible to the public, and such copies shall
be altered, revised or removed only under the direction of the Election
Commissioners or said Assistant Commissioner.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 258; CBC 1985 11-7.9; Ord. 1994
c. 6 § 3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-3.1
11-7.10   Permits for Ward-Rooms; Revocation, Conditions.
   The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, when a written
application (containing a copy of the call for a meeting notifying all persons
who may be present that it will be subject to the provisions of this Section)
is made to him or her by not less than five legal voters of a ward for the use
of a ward-room for the purpose of holding such a meeting, and when he or she is
paid such sum of money as will, in his or her opinion, be sufficient to defray
the expense of opening, lighting, heating and closing the ward-room during the
time specified in the permit, may issue a permit for the use of such ward-room,
which permit may at any time be revoked by the Mayor. Said Assistant
Commissioner shall specify in the permit the time and purpose of the meeting,
and that the meeting will be subject to the following provisions, viz.: Only
legal voters in the ward in which such meeting is held, and to whom no
objection is made by the majority of such applicants as are present or by the
presiding Officer of such meeting, shall mark or vote, or remain at such
meeting, and the members of the Police force present shall keep the peace at
such meeting, obey the lawful orders of and remove such persons as shall be
designated by, the majority of such applicants as are present, or after the
election of a presiding Officer of the meeting, such persons as shall be
designated by such presiding Officer. Said Assistant Commissioner shall request
the Police Commissioner to detail Police sufficient to enforce such provisions.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 259; CBC 1985 11-7.10; Ord.
1994 c. 6 § 3)
11-7.11   Allotment of Spaces Within City Hall Garage.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of ordinance, the Property Management
Board shall make available not less than 12 spaces for the parking of
automobiles within the garage at City Hall for the exclusive use of the Boston
City Council or members of its staff as such spaces may be assigned by the City
Council. The remaining spaces in said garage shall be available for the use of
other city officials as may be assigned by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1981 c. 1; CBC 1985 11-7.11; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)
11-7.12   Prompt Release of Information in Cases of Stranger Sexual Assault.
   (A)   The Boston Police Department, as a policy, shall make timely
dissemination of information to the public and media concerning stranger sexual
assaults or attempts to commit such assaults.
   (B)   Any information released shall be limited to standards prescribed
below; shall be prepared by the Commanding Officer of the Sexual Assault Unit
or official designated by the Police Commissioner; and shall only be released
by the Police Commissioner, a designated official or member of the Boston
Police Department authorized to deal with the press.
   (C)   Information on sexual assaults or attempts or patterns of assaults
released to the public and media shall be provided only in writing.
   (D)   Only the following information may, at the discretion of the
Commanding Officer of the Sexual Assault Unit, be released:
      (1)   Type of crime (classification to be determined by the Department);
date of assault; approximate time of attack; location of assault; arrest, if
any; description of perpetrator, only if the investigation of such assault(s)
will not be compromised by its release and only if the description is detailed
enough to be helpful to the public;
      (2)   The above information shall be released only if it meets the
following two criteria:
         (a)   The victim’s identity must not become known, either directly or
indirectly as a result of the release of this information; and
         (b)   Only information necessary to alert the public of a potential
threat will be provided.
      (3)   This policy shall be reviewed annually, or whenever deemed
necessary, by members of the appropriate designated Officers to evaluate its
effectiveness and address any problems or deficiencies.
(CBC 1985 11-7.12; Ord. 1993 c. 11 §§ 1-4)
11-7.13   Transfer of Functions Between the Public Facilities Department and
the Property Management Department.
   (A)   Pursuant to St. 1953, c. 473, the powers and duties of the Property
Management Department’s Property Division, created by the Property Management
Board under the authority of St. 1943, c. 434 are hereby transferred to the
Public Facilities Department; provided, however, that the powers conferred by
St. 1946, c. 474 and the functions related to public off-street parking
facilities shall be retained within the Property Management Board.
   (B)   Pursuant to St. 1953, c. 473, the Alterations and Repair Unit within
the Construction and Repair Division of the Public Facilities Department, and
the functions and duties of the Enforcement and Communications Programs of said
Department are hereby transferred to the Property Management Department.
   (C)   As provided in St. 1909, c. 486, as amended, every person holding an
Office or position subject to the civil service law and rules shall, if the
Office or position is abolished hereby, be reappointed without examination or
registration to a similar Office or position with similar status in the Public
Facilities Department or the Property Management Department, as appropriate,
and shall, upon such reappointment, retain all rights to retirement with
pension that shall have or would have accrued, and that person’s services shall
be deemed continuous to the same extent as if this reorganization had not taken
place.
(CBC 1985 11-7.13;Ord. 1994 c. 6 §§ 1, 2, 4)
11-7.14   City Hall Plaza, Rental of.
   The Commissioner of Property Management, who has care custody and control of
City Hall Plaza, shall have the authority to execute short-term leases of space
on City Hall Plaza for various events through advertised requests for
proposals. Prior to issuing the request for proposal, the Commissioner of
Property Management shall obtain an appraisal of fair market value from a
professional appraiser. All such leases shall be approved as to form by
Corporation Counsel and approved in writing by the Mayor. All proceeds from
said leases shall be deposited in a revolving fund approved annually pursuant
to M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 53 E½. Fees, rules and regulations established
under Subsection 18-1.3(P) also apply to events under this Section.
(CBC 1985 11-7.14; Ord. 2012 c. 4)
11-8   LIBRARY DEPARTMENT AND TRUSTEES OF THE PUBLIC LIBRARY.
11-8.1   Duties of Trustees.
   The Library Department shall be under the charge of a Board of nine
Trustees, who shall adopt such measures as shall extend the benefits of the
institution as widely as possible, and may, from time to time, establish branch
libraries and delivery stations in different Sections of the city; and shall
annually appoint an examining Committee of not less than five persons, not
members of the Board who, with one of the Board as Chair, shall examine the
library and make to the Board a report of its conditions.
(St. 1853 c. 38; St. 1878 c. 114; St. 1885 c. 266 §§ 6, 12; Rev. Ord. 1961 c.
18 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 350; CBC 1985 11-8.1; Ord. 1989 c. 6; Ord. 1994 c.
5 §§ 1, 2)
11-8.2   Annual Report.
   The Board shall, in its annual report, include a statement of the condition
of the library, the number of books that have been added thereto during the
year, the report of the Committee appointed to examine the library and the
total amount of money received from fines and sales.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 18 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 351; CBC 1985 11-8.2)
11-9   CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
11-9.1   Department of Civil Defense Established.
   There is hereby established a Department of Civil Defense (hereinafter
called the “Department”). It shall be the function of the Department to have
charge of civil defense as defined in Section 1, Chapter 639, Acts of 1950, and
to perform civil defense functions as authorized or directed by said chapter or
by any and all executive orders or general regulations promulgated thereunder,
and to exercise any authority delegated to it by the Governor under said
Chapter 639.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 400; CBC
1985 11-9.1)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1950 c. 639 § 1
11-9.2   Director of Civil Defense.
   The Department shall be under the direction of a Director of Civil Defense
(hereinafter called the “Director”), who shall be appointed as prescribed by
law. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the Department subject to the direction and
control of the appointing authority and shall receive such salary as may be
fixed, from time to time, by the appointing authority. The Director may, within
the limits of the amount appropriated therefor, appoint such experts, clerks
and other assistants as the work of the Department may require and may remove
them, and may make such expenditures as may be necessary to execute effectively
the purposes of Chapter 639, Acts of 1950. The Director shall also have
authority to appoint District Coordinators and may accept and may receive on
behalf of the city, services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of
gift, grant or loan for purposes of civil defense, offered by the Federal
government or any Agency or Officer thereof or any person, firm or corporation,
subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if any, of the
Agency making the offer. The Director shall cause appropriate records to be
kept of all matters relating to such gifts, grants or loans.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 401; CBC
1985 11-9.2)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1950 c. 639
11-9.3   Civil Defense Advisory Council.
   There is hereby established a Civil Defense Advisory Council (hereinafter
called the “Council”). Said Council shall serve without pay and shall consist
of the Director of Civil Defense, such other Department heads and such other
persons as the authority appointing said Director may deem necessary. Such
member of said Council as said appointing authority shall designate shall serve
as Chair of said Council. Said Council shall serve subject to the direction and
control of the appointing authority and shall advise said appointing authority
and the Director on matters pertaining to civil defense.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 402; CBC
1985 11-9.3)
11-9.4   Police Aid to Other Cities and Towns in Event of Riots and Other
Violence Therein.
   The Boston Police Department is hereby authorized to go to aid another city
or town at the request of said city or town in the suppression of riots or
other forms of violence therein.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 403; CBC
1985 11-9.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. s 11-1
11-9.5   Termination of Ordinance.
   This Section shall remain in force during the effective period of Chapter
639, Acts of 1950, and any act in amendment or continuation thereof or
substitution therefor.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 404; CBC
1985 11-9.5)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1950 c. 639
11-9.6   Definition.
   All references to Chapter 639, Acts of 1950, as now in force shall be
applicable to any act or acts in amendment or continuation of or substitution
for said Chapter 639.
(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 405; CBC
1985 11-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1950 c. 639
11-10   PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
11-10.1   Overview.
   The city Parks and Recreation Department oversees 2,200 acres of parkland,
including 215 parks and playgrounds, 65 squares, 16 historic burying grounds,
three active cemeteries, two golf courses, a variety of urban woodlands and
immeasurable street trees. The Department also programs a wide range of
community events and live entertainment in the parks under its jurisdiction and
employs Boston Park Rangers to monitor the parks and enhance public safety.
Over the last ten years, the Parks Department has implemented a $120,000,000
rehabilitation of the city park system targeting every tot lot and most ball
fields and hard courts.
(CBC 1985 11-10.1; Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2   Dog Recreation Spaces.
11-10.2(a) Introduction and Purpose.
   (A)   These Sections delineate a community- initiated process for the city
to establish dog recreation spaces within the city through the City’s Parks and
Recreation Commission and an external applicant for a city dog recreation
space. The applicant may be an individual, a group of individuals or a formal
organization. The process is community-initiated, and it remains community-
centered by requiring the applicant to remain actively involved in the
maintenance of the space and the implementation of rules and regulations in and
around the space. This Subsection is designed and intended to highlight and
require a prominent role of the applicant for a Boston dog recreation space in
the creation, establishment, funding and maintenance of the dog recreation
space.
   (B)   The applicant will also assume a primary role in establishing,
promulgating and compelling compliance with standards of conduct in and around
the dog recreation spaces.
   (C)   The establishment of a dog recreation space requires measures of
flexibility to allow for variations in space availability and the needs of the
neighborhoods enjoying the dog recreation space; such flexibility may include
the establishment of multi-use parks/areas. Although the city has a multitude
of pre-existing commitments to other current recreational uses in the city’s
parks, it is the intention of the city to preserve the space and integrity of
the city’s tot lots, tennis courts, basketball courts, tracks and baseball/
softball fields, which shall in no way be diminished or compromised by the
siting/location of a dog recreation space. The provisions of these Sections,
however, shall not preclude an applicant from seeking to use other publicly
owned land, other than parkland, for a dog recreation space.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(a); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(b) Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Subsection, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Animal Control Officer of the city as identified
in Section 14-5, or his or her designee, Agent or successor.
   APPLICANT. As defined in Subsection 11-10.2(c).
   CBC. The City of Boston Code of Ordinances.
   COMMISSION. The Parks and Recreation Commission of the city or its
successor.
   DOG KEEPER. Any person that supervises a dog entering a DRS, recreating
within a DRS or exiting a DRS.
   DOG RECREATION SPACE or DRS. Any area of land, including, but not limited
to, an area within existing public or park space, that, pursuant to Subsection
11-10.2, has been specifically designated as a DOG RECREATION SPACE.
   MOA. A memorandum of agreement between the Parks and Recreation Commission
and the applicant which delineates the understanding and/or agreement of the
roles and responsibilities for the creation, maintenance and operation of a
DRS.
   OWNER. Any person that owns a dog entering a DRS, recreating within a DRS,
or exiting a DRS whether or not the OWNER is acting as a dog keeper.
   PARK RANGER. Any Ranger of the Parks and Recreation Department of the city.
   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION. The Parks and Recreation Commission of the
city as identified in Subsection 7-4.1, or its designee, Agent or successor.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(b); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(c)   Applicant for a Dog Recreation Space.
   (A)   APPLICANT means a group of ten individuals that applies for and/or
receives approval for the designation of a Dog Recreation Space.
   (B)   Nothing in these Sections shall prevent a pre-existing “friends” group
from acting as an applicant. Each person comprising the applicant shall be a
resident of the city.
   (C)   The applicant shall designate one person to be the sole contact for
communication with the city, and the person so designated may be changed by the
applicant only by forwarding written notice to the Commission. No person other
than the person so designated on the application, or changed in accordance with
the terms of this division (C), shall have authority or standing to interact
with the city regarding a specific DRS. Unless designated on the application,
no individual user of a DRS shall have authority or standing to interact with
the city regarding a specific DRS.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(c); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(d)   Procedure for Establishing and Designating a Dog Recreation Space.
   No dog recreation space may be established without the express written
authorization of the Commission.
   (A)   Application. 
      (1)   The applicant may apply to the Commission for the establishment of
a dog recreation space, and such application shall be submitted to the
Executive Secretary of the Parks and Recreation Commission. The application
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The proposed specific site for the DRS;
         (b)   The specific dimensions of the proposed area for the DRS;
         (c)   The specific method, including materials, of separation/
segregation of the DRS from the adjoining/surrounding area;
         (d)   The proposed methods, materials and/or procedures for the
placement and maintenance of ground cover, trash receptacles, benches, lights,
signage and water fountain/hose, which support the comfortable use of the DRS;
         (e)   A proposed plan for construction of the DRS including a timeline
for construction of the DRS and a plan for funding the construction of the DRS
including, but not limited to, the collection of membership fees, the
collection of user fees, private-sector fundraisers, private-sector donations
and/or partnerships with businesses;
         (f)   A proposed plan for the maintenance of the DRS including a plan
for funding the maintenance of the DRS including, but not limited to, the
collection of membership fees, the collection of user fees, private-sector
fundraisers, private-sector donations and/or partnerships with businesses;
         (g)   An estimate of the number of dogs that will use the DRS;
         (h)   The hours of operation of the DRS but such hours shall not
extend beyond the hours noted in Subsection 11-10.2(f);
         (i)   A certification signed by the applicant that the applicant
notified the abutters of the proposed DRS of the application as prescribed in
the attached “Instructions for Notification to Abutters” and “Affidavit of
Notice to Abutters and Others”;
         (j)   A description of the applicant’s efforts to obtain input from
the immediate community/neighborhood regarding the DRS including a list of
addresses from which input was obtained and which may include a petition signed
by identifiable members of the immediate community/neighborhood and the local
and commonwealth elected officials representing the area of the DRS;
         (k)   A letter or memorandum of support or a letter or memorandum of
non-opposition, from the neighborhood civic association overseeing the proposed
site of the DRS referencing the DRS;
         (l)   An identification of and description of any organization
overseeing the operation and/or management of the DRS;
         (m)   A draft proposed MOA in a form substantially similar to the form
annexed to this Section and in a form that, at a minimum, shall contain all of
the Sections in the draft proposed form MOA annexed to this Subsection;
         (n)   Any other information the Commission may require; and
         (o)   The signatures of each person constituting the applicant or, if
the applicant is comprised of one or more organizations, the signatures of the
Officers of such organization(s).
      (2)   No application may be considered unless the application contains
materials that completely satisfy the requirements of this Subsection.
   (B)   Review and decision. 
      (1)   The applicant shall submit the application to the Commission,
through the Executive Secretary of the Parks and Recreation Commission, who
shall review the application and shall accept the written comments of the
residents of the neighborhood in which the DRS is proposed to be sited and
consider such comments before issuing a written decision regarding the
application. The Commission shall issue a written decision no later than the
sixtieth calendar day after the Commission’s first meeting subsequent to the
Commission’s receipt of the application. If the Commission disapproves the
application, then the Commission shall forward a copy of the disapproval,
complete with reasons for the disapproval, to the applicant. If the Commission
approves the application, then the Commission shall promptly forward written
notification of the approval to the applicant. The approval of the Commission
shall contain as a condition for the designation of a proposed area as a DRS a
requirement for the applicant to deposit with the Commission an amount of money
determined at the sole discretion of the Commission to be adequate to close and
dismantle the DRS as planned in the application, and such deposit shall be used
to close and dismantle the DRS upon the expiration, forfeiture, revocation or
other final termination of the DRS designation if the applicant fails or
refuses to dismantle the DRS within 30 calendar days of the expiration,
forfeiture, revocation or other final termination of the DRS designation. The
size of the DRS shall be at the sole discretion of the Commission, and the
Commission shall consider the proportion of the DRS to the gross area of the
park in which the proposed DRS is located.
      (2)   The approval of the Commission may contain other conditions for the
designation of the proposed area as a DRS.
   (C)   Acceptance. The area proposed in an application that has been approved
by the Commission shall be designated a dog recreation space if the applicant,
no later than the fourteenth calendar day after receipt of the Commission’s
notice of approval, accepts, in writing, the decision of the Commission
including any conditions attached thereto and remits the required deposit. If
the Commission does not receive an acceptance and deposit within the 14-day
period, then the offered designation shall lapse.
   (D)   Probation. Upon acceptance, an area’s initial designation as a DRS
shall be effective for a one-year probationary period wherein the Commission
may revoke the designation at the Commission’s discretion.
   (E)   Expiration/sunset/renewal. The designation of an area as a DRS shall
expire on the fifth anniversary of its acceptance. The applicant may submit a
renewal application to the Commission no earlier than 120 calendar days before
the date of the fifth anniversary of acceptance of the designation as a DRS or
the most recent renewal thereof and no later than 30 calendar days after the
fifth anniversary of the acceptance or renewal of the designation. The
applicant is not required to apply for renewal, and any DRS that is not
successfully renewed shall be closed and dismantled by the applicant within 90
calendar days after the fifth anniversary of the acceptance or renewal of the
designation as a DRS unless the Commission forwards other instructions in
writing to the applicant. The applicant may apply for renewal of a designation
by submitting a written request therefor to the Commission. The Commission
shall consult with the Animal Control Officer regarding the renewal and shall,
in writing, approve or reject the renewal within 30 calendar days of receipt of
the request for renewal. Upon receipt of a rejected renewal, the applicant
shall close and dismantle the DRS.
   (F)   Re-application. Nothing in these Sections prohibits the applicant from
reapplying if it has received notice of disapproval of an application or if it
has allowed an offered designation to lapse from re-applying. The applicant may
not submit more than two re-applications for the same DRS, and the Commission
may not review more than two re-applications for the same DRS.
   (G)   Design and construction approval. At all times, the Parks and
Recreation Commission shall have final approval authority over any and all
aspects of design and construction and no DRS designation may begin operations
as a DRS without the final approval of the Commission.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(d); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(e)   Managing a Dog Recreation Space.
   (A)   The applicant shall promulgate rules and regulations for the use of a
DRS. Any rules and regulations shall not be more permissive than the current
laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations and/or policies governing the
operation and use of public spaces, public parks and/or dog recreation spaces
but may, however, be more restrictive than the current laws, ordinances,
orders, rules, regulations and/or policies governing the operation and use of
public spaces, public parks and/or dog recreation spaces. Rules and regulations
shall be posted at the DRS, the name and telephone number of the person
designated in Subsection 11-10.2(c) shall be posted at the DRS, and any signage
must be in compliance with Subsection 11-10.2 and with the city’s guidelines.
   (B)   Complaints regarding a DRS shall be directed to the Commission which
shall notify the applicant of any complaint within five business days.
Complaints regarding a DRS may also be directed to the applicant pursuant to
the name and telephone number of the person designated in Subsection 11-10.2(c)
as posted at the DRS pursuant to Subsection 11-10.2(d).
   (C)   The applicant shall be responsible for the management of the DRS. Upon
notice to the applicant of any violation, the applicant shall have 14 calendar
days to correct any violation. The applicant shall notify the Animal Control
Officer of any serious incidents, including, but not limited to, accidents
resulting in human or dog injury, any dog bite of a human or another dog and
any verbal or physical altercations between humans, at the DRS and of any
troublesome and/or recidivist dogs, dog keepers, owners and/or other users of
the DRS. The applicant shall notify the Animal Control Officer of any patterns
of objectionable or unsafe behavior or patterns of objectionable or unsafe
occurrences for correction or remediation. The Animal Control Officer and the
applicant shall have the authority to ban any dog and/or any dog keeper from a
DRS. Uncorrected violations at a DRS, a single serious incident or a pattern of
serious incidents at a DRS or other circumstances compromising public health or
public safety may result in temporary closing of the DRS for a defined period
of time and/or suspension, forfeiture or revocation of the DRS designation.
   (C)   The Maintenance Division of the Parks and Recreation Department shall
not be responsible for the maintenance of a DRS. The Commission shall supply
and maintain an adequate number of trash receptacles for each DRS. The
applicant shall immediately advise the Commission of any concerns with the
adequacy or maintenance of the trash receptacles.
   (D)   The applicant shall have the authority to recommend to the Commission
that a DRS be temporarily closed for a defined period of time and/or suspension
or forfeiture of its status as a DRS.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(e); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(f)   Use of a Dog Recreation Space.
   (A)   The use of a dog recreation space shall be subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   No dog may enter a DRS or recreate within a DRS unless it is
licensed and vaccinated for rabies. No dog may enter a DRS or recreate within a
DRS unless it is wearing a collar with the license, the vaccination tag and a
tag with the dog’s name, owner’s name and owner’s telephone number secured to
the collar at all times.
      (2)   No dog may enter a DRS unless it is more than four months old.
      (3)   No person may enter a DRS unless he or she is 18 years of age or
older unless he or she is accompanied by an adult which shall be responsible
for the actions of the minor and any dog supervised by such minor.
      (4)   Except under exigent circumstances, no person in or near a DRS
shall run, shout, scream, wave or engage in any behavior that excites or
antagonizes a dog in or near the DRS or in any way violate the cruelty laws,
including, but not limited to, M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 77 and all persons
shall note the liability restrictions in M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 155.
      (5)   No female dog in heat may enter a DRS.
      (6)   No dog shall enter or exit the DRS unless restrained by a dog
keeper on a leash complying with the requirements of this code and each and
every dog keeper must have a leash for each and every dog so handled on his or
her person at all times.
      (7)   Each and every dog keeper must vigilantly supervise his/her dog(s),
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Remaining within the DRS at all times during which his or her
dog(s) is within the DRS;
         (b)   Keeping his or her dog(s) within sight;
         (c)   Maintaining adequate behavioral control over his or her dog(s)
within and around a DRS;
         (d)   Immediately filling any hole created by his or her dog(s) within
and around a DRS and disciplining his or her dog from digging within and around
a DRS; and
         (e)   Immediately removing and properly disposing of any and all dog
waste from within and around a DRS.
      (8)   Each and every dog keeper must remove his or her dog from a DRS at
the first sign of aggression from his or her dog(s) even if the aggression is
defensive, retaliatory or provoked. Dog keepers and dogs within a DRS remain
subject to the requirements, provisions and penalties of Subsection 16-1.9B and
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 157.
      (9)   No dog keeper may bring more than three dogs into or around a DRS
at one time.
      (10)   In no event may bicycles, roller blades, roller skates, scooters,
skateboards, strollers or other similar items enter a DRS. Wheelchairs are
expressly permitted within a DRS.
      (11)   In no event may a dog keeper or dog enter a DRS after 11:00 p.m.
or before 6:00 a.m.
      (12)   Use of a DRS shall constitute:
         (a)   The consent of the user, dog keeper and/or owner to all of the
laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations and policies governing the
operation and use of a DRS;
         (b)   A waiver of the user, Dog Keeper and/or owner of any liability
of the city for any injury or damage arising as a result of the use of a DRS;
and
         (c)   The agreement of the user, dog keeper and/or owner to protect,
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city for any injury or damage arising
as a result of the use of a DRS.
   (B)   Nothing in these Sections shall prohibit the development and
employment of a specific program to regulate the use of dog recreation spaces
which may require licenses and/or fees.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(f); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(g)   Education Program.
   (A)   The applicant shall create and implement educational programs
regarding the laws, ordinances,
orders, rules, regulations and policies regarding dogs, dogs in public spaces
and the use of dog recreation spaces. With the cooperation and funding of the
applicant, the Commission shall install signage at each DRS summarizing the
laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations and policies of dog recreation
spaces; provided that the size, content and placement of such signs are
approved by the Animal Control Officer. The signage shall include:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of any organization, if such
organization is not the applicant, overseeing the operation and/or management
of the DRS;
      (3)   The title and telephone number of the Animal Control Officer; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the Department.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer, pursuant to Subsection 7-9.2, shall
conduct educational programs relating to animal control as it shall deem
necessary or desirable.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(g); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(h)   Violations and Penalties.
   (A)   A first violation of these Sections in any calendar year shall be
subject to a fine of $100. A second violation of these Sections in any calendar
year shall be subject to a fine of $200. A third violation of these Sections in
any calendar year shall be subject to a fine of $300. Any single violation may
be subject to revocation of the privileges of the dog keeper and the dog
keeper’s dog(s) to enter a DRS or recreate within a DRS. In the event that the
penalties delineated in this Subsection conflict with other fines authorized by
the city then the penalty imposed pursuant to this Subsection shall supplement
any other penalty.
   (B)   A pattern of violations at any DRS may result in temporary closing of
the DRS by the Commission for a defined period of time and/or suspension,
forfeiture or revocation of the DRS designation.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(h); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(i)   Suspension, Forfeiture and/or Revocation of Designation as Dog
Recreation Space and Closure.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the authority to suspend, revoke or deem
forfeited a DRS designation. At the Commission’s sole discretion, the
Commission may suspend, revoke or deem forfeited a DRS designation for reasons
including, but not limited to, a violation of these Sections, a violation of
the MOA or a failure or refusal to abide by the terms of the MOA. The
Commission shall immediately suspend, revoke or deem forfeited the DRS
designation upon a written recommendation of the Animal Control Officer citing
an incident or incidents at or near a DRS that compromise or jeopardize the
public health or public safety.
   (B)   A suspension shall not be considered punitive but shall be for a
limited time not to exceed 30 calendar days and for a limited purpose which
shall be specified in a written notice of suspension forwarded to the
applicant, and the Commission shall close the DRS for the duration of the
suspension. A suspension shall be deemed to be a warning to the applicant and
the users of the DRS. A summary of the reasons for the suspension, the term of
the suspension and the terms for lifting the suspension shall be posted at the
DRS.
   (C)   The applicant shall be solely responsible for ensuring that the
condition(s) requiring correction pursuant to a notice of suspension are
subsequently corrected. If the condition(s) in the notice of suspension are not
corrected within the limited time of the suspension, then the Commission may,
in the Commission’s sole discretion, revoke or deem forfeited the DRS
designation upon written notice to the applicant, and the Commission may order
the applicant to close and dismantle the DRS immediately upon the conclusion of
any appeal period or the Commission may close and dismantle the DRS immediately
upon the conclusion of any appeal period.
   (D)   The applicant may appeal a revocation or forfeiture of a DRS upon
written notice of appeal to the Commission which shall be delivered to the
Executive Secretary of the Commission within ten calendar days of the notice of
revocation/forfeiture. The Commission shall schedule a hearing and inform the
applicant of the date, time and place of the hearing in writing. The hearing
shall commence within 30 calendar days after the date of the notice of
revocation/forfeiture. At the hearing, the applicant shall be given an
opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence and to
show why the notice of revocation/forfeiture should be modified or withdrawn.
An official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available
to the applicant upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period
specified herein shall not affect the validity and/or enforceability of any
notice of revocation/forfeiture.
   (E)   If a written notice of appeal is not filed with the Executive
Secretary Commission within ten calendar days after the date of the notice of
revocation/forfeiture or if after a hearing the notice of revocation/forfeiture
has been sustained in any part, then the notice of revocation/forfeiture shall
be enforceable pursuant to the provisions of these Sections.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(i); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(j)   Limited Exception of Subsection 16-1.9.
   Although the purpose and intent of Subsection 16-1.9 shall be effective at
all times, a dog and its dog keeper shall benefit from a limited exception to
Subsection 16-1.9. Specifically, the narrow provision of Subsection 16-1.9
prohibiting a dog to run at large in a public place shall be stayed while a dog
keeper is supervising his or her dog recreating within the confines of a dog
recreation space. As noted in a previous Section, all dogs must be leashed
while entering or exiting the dog recreation space and shall remain leashed at
all times outside the dog recreation space.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(j); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(k)   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commission, pursuant to Subsection 7-4.8 or otherwise, shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(k); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(l)   Enforcement Authority.
   The Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department, the Animal Control
Officer the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, and the Commissioner
of the Boston Municipal Police Department shall have the authority to implement
and enforce these Sections and any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(l); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 2)
11-10.2(m)   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(m); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(n)   Harmonious Construction.
   These Sections shall be construed harmoniously with all laws, ordinances,
orders, rules, regulations and policies regarding parks, public spaces and
animal control such that all laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations and
policies effectively provide the greatest level of public health, public
safety, equity and fairness.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(n); Ord. 2004 c.13 § 1)
11-10.2(o)   Savings Clause.
   (A)   Nothing in these Sections shall operate to immediately invalidate any
dog park existing at the time of passage of these Sections except that any pre-
existing concerns/problems may be forwarded in writing to the Commission and
such concerns/ problems shall be immediately addressed. Any dog park existing
at the time of passage of these Sections shall be closed within one year of
passage of these Sections unless an applicant undertakes the application
process for any dog park existing at the time of passage of these Sections to
become a DRS pursuant to these Sections subject to all of the rights,
responsibilities, obligations and duties therein, specifically including, but
not limited to, the probationary period in Subsection 11-10.2(d)(D).
   (B)   Nothing in these Sections shall operate to invalidate any dog park
that has been designed and/or approved by the Parks and Recreation Department
or the Parks and Recreation Commission prior to the passage of these Sections
except that any pre-existing concerns/problems may be forwarded in writing to
the Commission and such concerns/problems shall be immediately addressed. Any
such dog park existing at the time of passage of these Sections shall be closed
within one year of passage of these Sections unless an applicant undertakes the
application process for any such dog park existing at the time of passage of
these Sections to become a DRS pursuant to these Sections subject to all of the
rights, responsibilities, obligations and duties therein, specifically
including, but not limited to, the probationary period in Subsection 11-10.2(d)
(D).
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(o); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(p) Sunset Clause.
   (A)   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective only until the
fifth anniversary of the date of passage unless extended by an order of the
Boston City Council and approved by the Mayor of the city no later than the
ninetieth day following the fifth anniversary of the date of passage.
   (B)   The provisions of these Sections may be serially extended by an order
of the Boston City Council and approved by the Mayor of the city no later than
the ninetieth day following the fifth anniversary of the date of extension. No
individual extension of these Sections may be for a period longer than five
years.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(p); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-10.2(q)   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective 60 calendar days after
passage.
(CBC 1985 11-10.2(q); Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
11-11    VOTER REGISTRATION ACCESSIBILITY.
11-11.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to increase access to voter registration by
making voter registration forms available at additional locations and
establishing an automatic voter registration system.
(CBC 1985 11-11.1; Ord. 2018 c. 1 § 1)
11-11.2   Availability of Voter Registration Forms.
   (A)   The Boston Public Library shall make voter registration forms
available in conspicuous locations at all branch libraries. Voter registration
forms shall be provided to individuals when applying for library cards.
   (B)   Boston Centers for Youth and Families shall make voter registration
forms available at conspicuous locations at all community centers.
   (C)   All Boston Public High Schools and Boston Public Schools Welcome
Centers shall provide pre-registration information and forms to all students
eligible to pre-register. Voter registration forms shall also be provided to
parents or legal guardians when registering children for school. Boston Public
Schools shall develop a policy to ensure that as many eligible students as
possible have the opportunity to vote on Election Day.
   (D)   The Boston Transportation Department, hereinafter referred to as
Department, shall provide registration materials to individuals applying for or
renewing resident parking permits. The Department shall deliver any completed
voter registration forms to the city’s Elections Department.
(CBC 1985 11-11.2; Ord. 2018 c. 1)
CHAPTER XII: PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section
12-1   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS AND TRUSTEES OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
   
12-1.1   Department of Health and Hospitals
   
12-1.2   Approval for Closing or Reducing Bed Capacity of Facilities
12-2   VETERANS SERVICES DEPARTMENT
   
12-2.1   Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner; Power and Duties
   
12-2.2   Divisions; Appointment of Deputies
   
12-2.3   Supervision of Veterans Graves and Registration
12-3   COUNCIL ON AGING
   
12-3.1   Officers; Appointment, Term, Compensation
   
12-3.2   Powers and Duties
   
12-3.3   Creating Centers for Older Americans
   
12-3.4   Home Repair Program for Seniors
   
12-3.5   Older Adult Property Tax Work-Off Abatement
12-4   COMMISSION FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
   
12-4.1   Definitions
   
12-4.2   Purpose
   
12-4.3   Composition, Appointment, Term and Compensation
   
12-4.4   Powers and Duties of the Commission
   
12-4.5   Powers and Duties of the Commissioner
   
12-4.6   Powers and Duties of the Associate Members
   
12-4.7   Responsibilities of City Agencies
   
12-4.8   Severability
   
12-4.9   Effective Date
   
12-4.10   Closed Captioning Activation
12-5   COMMISSION ON MENTAL RETARDATION
   
12-5.1   Composition of Board
   
12-5.2   Duties
12-6   YOUTH ACTIVITIES COMMISSION AND CORPORATION
   
12-6.1   Youth Services Commission
12-7   DRUG ABUSE COORDINATING COUNCIL
   
12-7.1   Composition of Board
   
12-7.2   Duties
12-8   PENAL INSTITUTIONS DEPARTMENT
   
12-8.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner
   
12-8.2   House of Correction at Deer Island
   
12-8.3   Organization of Department
   
12-8.4   Annual Report
12-9   HUMAN RIGHTS
   
12-9.1   Policy
   
12-9.2   Definitions
   
12-9.3   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Employment
   12-9.4   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Labor Organizations
   
12-9.5   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Credit Transactions, Bonding and
Insurance
   
12-9.6   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Education
   
12-9.7   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Public Accommodations and Services
   
12-9.8   Other Unlawful Practices
   
12-9.9   Establishment of the Boston Human Rights Commission, Executive
Director, Staff
   
12-9.10   Powers and Duties of Executive Director
   
12-9.11   Powers and Duties of the Commission
   
12-9.12   Procedures
   
12-9.13   Construction of Ordinance
   
12-9.14   Effect of Commonwealth and Federal Laws
   
12-9.15   Severability
12-9A   PROTECTION OF FAMILIES
   
12-9A.1   Definitions
   
12-9A.2   Registration
   
12-9A.3   City Clerk
   
12-9A.4   Visitation and Other Rights
   
12-9A.5   Limitation of Liabilities
   
12-9A.6   Retaliation
   
12-9A.7   Severability
   
12-9A.8   Forms
   
12-9A.9   Employee Health Insurance Study
12-10   RESERVED
12-11   NEIGHBORHOOD JOBS TRUST
   
12-11.1   Policy of the City
   
12-11.2   Establishment of Neighborhood Jobs Trust
12-12   HIRING OF STRIKEBREAKERS OR REPLACEMENT WORKERS
   
12-12.1   Policy
   
12-12.2   Definitions
   
12-12.3   Unlawful Conduct
   
12-12.4   Penalties
   
12-12.5   Effective Date
   
12-12.6   Severability
12-13   PARENTAL SCHOOL LEAVE
   
12-13.1   Definitions
   
12-13.2   Legislative Intent
   
12-13.3   Operation of Section
12-14   PROTECTIVE CUSTODY
   
12-14.1   Purpose
   
12-14.2   Definitions
   
12-14.3   Protective Custody
   
12-14.4   Applicability
   
12-14.5   Regulatory Authority
   
12-14.6   Severability
   
12-14.7   Implementation
12-15   CONCUSSIONS
   
12-15.1   Concussion Prevention
   
12-15.2   Concussion Management
   
12-15.3   Permitting Requirements
   
12-15.4   College Athlete Head Injury Gameday Safety Protocol
12-16   SAFE SHARPS DISPOSAL PROGRAM
   
12-16.1   Purpose
   
12-16.2   Definitions
   
12-16.3   Safe Sharps Disposal Program for Pharmacies
   
12-16.4   Container and Signage Requirements
   
12-16.5   Implementation and Enforcement
   
12-16.6   Severability
12-17   OFFICE OF POLICE ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY
   
12-17.1   Purpose
   
12-17.2   Definitions
   
12-17.3   Establishment of OPAT Commission
   
12-17.4   Powers and Duties of the Commission
   
12-17.5   Executive Administration
   
12-17.6   Powers and Duties of the Executive Administration and Executive
Director
   
12-17.7   OPAT Staff Receipt, Investigation and Review of Complaints
   
12-17.8   Civilian Review Board
   
12-17.9   Powers and Duties of Civilian Review Board
   
12-17.10   Complaints Appropriate for Review by the Civilian Review Board
   
12-17.11   Civilian Review Board Process
   
12-17.12   Internal Affairs Oversight Panel
   
12-17.13   Powers and Duties of Internal Affairs Oversight Panel
   
12-17.14   Cases Appropriate for Review by the Internal Affairs Oversight Panel
   
12-17.15   IAOP Review Process
   
12-17.16   Communication
   
12-17.17   Training
   
12-17.18   Complaint Mediation Program
   
12-17.19   Severability
   
12-17.20   Effective Date
12-18   SPECIAL COMMISSION TO END FAMILY HOMELESSNESS
   
12-18.1   Purpose
   
12-18.2   Establishing the Special Commission
   
12-18.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Special Commission
12-19   IMMIGRANT ADVANCEMENT FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
   
12-19.1   Purpose
   
12-19.2   Establishment of the Office of Immigrant Advancement
   
12-19.3   Director Responsibilities
   
12-19.4   Reporting Requirements
12-20   OFFICE OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
   
12-20.1   Purpose
   
12-20.2   Establishment of the Office of Cultural Affairs
   
12-20.3   Director Responsibilities
   
12-20.4   Reporting Requirements
12-1   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS AND TRUSTEES OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS.
12-1.1   Department of Health and Hospitals.
   There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Department of Health
and Hospitals, as provided in the Charter as that term is defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause Fifth.
(Ord. December 2, 1872; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 31; Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 5; Ord. 1970 c.
3 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 15 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 1; CBC 1985
12-1.1)
Cross-reference:
   MG.L. Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 1.5
12-1.2   Approval for Closing or Reducing Bed Capacity of Facilities.
   (A)   The Board of Health and Hospitals shall not close, or reduce the bed
capacity of, any facility under its control without the prior approval of the
Mayor and the Boston City Council.
   (B)   This Section shall be broadly construed.
(Ord. 1973 c. 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 2; CBC 1985 12-1.2)
12-2   VETERANS SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
12-2.1   Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner; Power and Duties.
   There shall be in the city a Department, known as the Veterans Services
Department, which shall be under the charge of an Officer, known as the
Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner, who shall be a veteran as defined
in M.G.L. Chapter 115, Section 1; shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term
expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected; and shall have the powers and
perform the duties, from time to time, conferred or imposed by statute upon the
Soldiers’ Relief Commissioner of Boston, Veterans’ Agents appointed under
M.G.L. Chapter 115, Section 3, and Directors of Veterans’ Services appointed
under M.G.L. Chapter 115, Section 10.
(St. 1897 c. 441; Ord. 1946 c. 9; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 66; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 §
l; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 50; CBC 1985 12-2.1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 115, Sections 1, 3, 10
12-2.2   Divisions; Appointment of Deputies.
   The Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner may divide the Veterans
Services Department, from time to time, into such divisions as he or she may
deem necessary for the proper conduct of the Department, and, with the written
approval of the Mayor in each instance, may appoint such Deputy, and such
Assistant, Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioners as he or she may, from
time to time, deem necessary; provided, however, that no person other than a
veteran as defined in Subsection 12-2.1 shall be eligible for such appointment.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 51; CBC 1985 12-2.2)
12-2.3   Supervision of Veterans Graves and Registration.
   There shall be in the Veterans Services Department an Officer, known as the
Supervisor of Veterans Graves and Registration, appointed by the Mayor, who
shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or
imposed by general laws applicable to Boston on persons appointed under M.G.L.
Chapter 115, Section 9. The Supervisor of Veterans Graves and Registration
shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Veterans Benefits and
Services Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, such
supervisor shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an annual or other
report, except through such Commissioner.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 52; CBC 1985 12-2.3)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 115, Section 9
12-3   COUNCIL ON AGING.
12-3.1   Officers; Appointment, Term, Compensation.
   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Commission on Affairs of
the Elderly, consisting of an Officer, known as the Commissioner on Affairs of
the Elderly, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of
the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is
elected, who shall be Chair of the Board and shall devote his or her whole time
to the work, and ten other Officers, known as Associate Commissioners on
Affairs of the Elderly, appointed by the Mayor (for terms of four years). As
the term of any such Associate Commissioner expires, his or her successor shall
be appointed by the Mayor for a term of four years. Any vacancy in the Office
of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired
term. The Associate Commissioners shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1968 c. 5; Ord. 1970 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord, 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4A § 1; CBC
1975 Ord. T12 § 100; CBC 1985 12-3.1)
12-3.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Commission on Affairs of the Elderly shall be cognizant of federal and
commonwealth legislation concerning financial assistance, information exchange
and planning for better community programming for the elderly, and shall
coordinate or carry out programs designed to meet the problems of the elderly
in coordination with programs of the Commission on Aging established under
M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8B or its successor in function. The Commission on
Affairs of the Elderly shall send to said Commission or its successor in
function a copy of the annual report transmitted by it to the Mayor under
Subsection 5-5.34 of these ordinances.
(Ord. 1968 c. 5; Ord. 1970 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4A § 2; CBC
1975 Ord. T12 § 101; CBC 1985 12-3.2)
12-3.3   Creating Centers for Older Americans.
   (A)   There shall be in the city, under the auspices of the Commission on
Elderly Affairs, a Division of Center for Older Americans.
   (B)   Said Division shall establish centers throughout the city, to provide
for and accommodate the needs of the elderly.
   (C)   Said centers shall be staffed and operated by the elderly.
(Ord. 1975 c. 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 102; CBC 1985 12-3.3)
12-3.4   Home Repair Program for Seniors.
   (A)   There shall be in the city, within the Commission on Affairs of the
Elderly, a program known as the Home Repair Program for Seniors, which shall be
administered by the Commissioner. Said program shall facilitate repairs which
are non-structural in nature to homes owned and occupied by elderly persons,
and to units rented by elderly persons in buildings of four or fewer units. The
Commissioner shall make every effort to utilize technical and vocational
students from the Boston Public School system to make such repairs. The
Commissioner shall coordinate funding for the program from federal,
commonwealth and private sources and shall work with private, non-profit
Agencies which conduct similar programs to ensure that such work is fairly and
equitably performed on a city-wide basis.
   (B)   The program described herein shall be administered totally by the
Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency (“NDEA”) of the city.
(Ord. 1984 c.27; CBC 1985 12-3.4)
12-3.5   Older Adult Property Tax Work-Off Abatement.
   (A)   Authority and purpose. The purpose of these provisions is to provide
older residents of the City of Boston with the opportunity to reduce their real
estate tax bills through a program utilizing certified volunteer services. The
authority for these provisions is found in M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K.
   (B)   Acceptance of the local option in M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K.
Enactment of these provisions shall be deemed an official action of the City of
Boston to accept the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K, as amended,
and the Older Adult Property Tax Work-Off Abatement Program ("Program") is
hereby authorized and created pursuant to the provisions of these sections.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMI (AREA MEDIAN INCOME). The US Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) standard used to determine household income in the Boston
region.
      CITY. The City of Boston.
      COMMISSION. The Elderly Commission of the City of Boston or the successor
thereto.
      COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
      HUD. The US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      OLDER ADULT. Someone who is age 60 and over.
      PARTICIPANT. Any person participating in the program. No person is
eligible to become a PARTICIPANT until attainment of his or her sixtieth
birthday.
      PROGRAM. The Older Adult Property Tax Work-Off Abatement authorized and
created by these Sections and any programs created thereunder.
   (D)   Administration. The Commission shall implement and administer the
program, The Commission shall have the authority to promulgate rules,
procedures, and regulations for implementation and administration of the
program that are consistent with the intent of M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K
and consistent with the provisions of these Sections including, but not limited
to, setting any limitations on the eligibility of participants such as income
limitations, asset limitations, limitations on the number of participants and
the work to be performed, and any limitation of eligibility to a tax reduction
on a participant's domicile. The Commission shall coordinate with the Offices,
Agencies, Commissions, Departments, or other organizations of the city to
receive and utilize certified volunteer services under the program.
   (E)   Participants.
      (1)   (a)   In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K, a
participant must:
            1.   Be over 60 years of age as of the January l preceding the
start of the fiscal year at issue; and
            2.   Be the assessed owner of the property on which the tax to be
abated is assessed or have acquired ownership before the certified volunteer
work is performed, and if the property is subject to a trust then the
participant must have legal title (i.e., have the status of a trustee for the
trust) and be a beneficiary under such trust on the applicable January 1
assessment date or at the time the work is performed.
         (b)   Participants may earn a maximum abatement of $2,000 dollars per
fiscal year and may not receive credit for the certified volunteer services at
an hourly rate higher than the minimum wage for the Commonwealth, nor shall the
hourly rate be less than the federal minimum wage unless the Commonwealth or
the city is advised by the Wages and Hours Division of the United States
Department of Labor that the Fair Labor Standards Act does not apply to the
program.
      (2)   Participants shall be determined by the Commission by the
chronological order of the applicants' submission of a complete and qualifying
application. In no event shall a person be eligible for the program as a
participant if such person's income exceeds 60% AMI as determined by HUD.
Eligible participants will be placed depending on the availability of open
positions.
   (F)   Certification of volunteer services.
      (1)   The Commission shall require the Offices, Agencies, Commissions,
Departments, or other organizations of the city receiving and utilizing
certified volunteer services under the program to certify to the Commission the
hours of services performed by a participant.
      (2)   The Commission must certify to the Assessor of the city the hours
of services performed by a participant before the actual tax for the fiscal
year is committed and must state the amount actually earned as of the date of
the certification. Services performed after that date are credited toward the
next fiscal year's actual tax bill to the extent consistent with the
Commission's rules for the program. The city will provide details of the credit
received prior to the issuance of the fourth quarter tax bill.
   (G)   Exemptions. Abatements earned by a participant under the program shall
not affect a participant's eligibility for any property tax exemptions.
   (H)   Annual report.
      (1)   In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the program, the
Commission shall, at the close of each fiscal year, prepare a detailed report
relevant to the program, including but not limited to:
         (a)   The name of each and every person that received an abatement
under the program, the number of hours certified, and the amount of the
respective abatement;
         (b)   The address of each and every property that received an
abatement under the program and the amount of the respective abatement;
         (c)   The name of each and every Office, Agency, Commission,
Department, or other organization that received volunteer services under the
program;
         (d)   The total number of hours certified under the program;
         (e)   The total number (quantity) of abatements applied under the
program;
         (f)   The total amount (value) of abatements applied under the
program;
         (g)   A complete delineation of the costs associated with
administering the program.
      (2)   The annual report shall be filed with the Boston City Clerk no
later than September 1 of each calendar year, and the Boston City Clerk shall
file the annual report with the Boston City Council within two weeks of receipt
thereof.
   (I)   Implementation. The provisions of this Section
12-3.5 shall be effective immediately, but, in
accordance with the requirement in M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K to explicitly
state the fiscal year in which the program will be first available, the
abatements may not be earned by a participant nor may the abatements be applied
to any real estate taxes until the commencement of fiscal year 2008 (i.e. July
1, 2007).
   (J)   Severability. If any provision of this section shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 12-3.5; Ord. 2006 c. 1; Ord. 2007 c.5; Ord. 2011 c. 7; Ord. 2016 c.
10 §§ 1-6; Ord. 2017 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2024 c. 2 § 1)
12-4   COMMISSION FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
12-4.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSIBILITY. The elimination of all barriers including environmental,
procedural, attitudinal and communication barriers which can prevent persons
with disabilities from equal opportunity.
   ATTITUDINAL BARRIERS. Presumptions or feelings regarding physical or mental
disabilities and/or persons with disabilities, which can, in themselves,
obstruct the access of persons with disabilities to equal opportunities.
   EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION METHODS. The use of communication aids, including
brailled or taped materials, readers and machines that enlarge print for
persons with visual limitations. Such methods shall also include the use of
certified interpreters for persons who are deaf and telecommunication devices
for those who have hearing or speaking limitations.
   MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITY. A function including, but not limited to, caring for
oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking,
breathing, learning and working.
   MENTAL IMPAIRMENT. Any mental or psychological disorder including, but not
limited to, mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental
illness and specific learning disabilities.
   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES. Persons who:
      (1)   Have a physical, mental or sensory impairment which substantially
limits one or more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   Have a record of such impairment; or
      (3)   Are regarded as having such an impairment.
   PHYSICAL IMPAIRMENT. Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic
disfigurement or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body
systems or organs: the neurological, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular,
reproductive, digestive, genito-urinary, skin, endocrine and hemic and
lymphatic body systems; special sense organs and respiratory organs, including
speech organs.
   SECTION 504. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29
U.S.C. § 794).
   SENSORY IMPAIRMENT. Any sensory disorder, condition or anatomical loss of
the special sense organs.
(Ord. 1971 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 20A § 1, CBC 1975 Ord. T12 §
150; CBC 1985 12-4.1; Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1)
12-4.2   Purpose.
   The Commission’s purpose is to facilitate full and equal participation in
all aspects of life by all persons with disabilities in the city. To accomplish
its purpose, the Commission will aim to reduce the architectural procedural
attitudinal and communication barriers which affect persons with disabilities.
(Ord. 1971 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 20A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. Tl2 §
151; CBC 1985 12-4.2; Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1)
12-4.3   Composition, Appointment, Term and Compensation.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board known as the Commission for Persons
with Disabilities, consisting of an Officer known as the Commissioner for
Persons with Disabilities Commission, 13 other members, who shall be associate
members of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commissioner and the associate members shall be appointed by the
Mayor for the term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the
next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and each shall
serve until his or her successor is duly appointed.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall be a full-time employee of the city and shall
be paid compensation. The associate members shall serve without compensation,
but each shall be entitled to reimbursement for his or her reasonable expenses
actually and necessarily incurred in the performance of his or her duties as an
Associate Commissioner. The associate members shall be considered special
municipal employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A.
   (D)   The associate members shall be qualified by training, experience and
demonstrated interest in the rights and equal opportunities of persons with
disabilities. A majority of the associate members shall be persons with
disabilities, with at least one being blind or legally blind, one being deaf or
hard of hearing and the others, comprising the majority, being persons with
representative types of disabilities. The associate members shall be
representative of the community in terms of race, religion, age and gender.
(CBC 1985 12-4.3; Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 2016 c. 15 § 1)
12-4.4   Powers and Duties of the Commission.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To develop and promote information and referral services regarding
programs, services, rights, accessibility and opportunities for persons with
disabilities which foster dignity and self-determination;
   (B)   To make recommendations and to provide coordination and support to
City Departments and Agencies concerning public policies, programs, services
and regulations as they affect or may affect persons with disabilities;
   (C)   To inform City Departments and Agencies of federal, commonwealth and
city funds available for expanding or improving services and programs for
persons with disabilities;
   (D)   To work toward the goal of safe, decent, affordable, accessible
housing for persons with disabilities and their families. The Commission shall
work with federal, commonwealth, city private and public Agencies and resources
to this end;
   (E)   To provide technical assistance to the city’s Division of Personnel as
to how to provide reasonable accommodation, auxiliary aids and general access
to the employment process for persons with disabilities. Such technical
assistance shall include, but not be limited to, reviewing job specifications,
application forms and procedures relating to hiring, promotion and firing,
including:
      (1)   Physical accessibility of the application process;
      (2)   Program accessibility, including the availability of effective
communication methods;
      (3)   Availability, use and publicity of affirmative action plans; and
      (4)   Review of personnel testing procedures.
   (F)   To address the transportation needs of persons with disabilities in
the city and, in concert with the Mayor’s representative on the Massachusetts
Bay Transportation Authority Advisory Committee, representatives from the
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (“MBTA”), the Massachusetts Port
Authority (“Massport”) and the Executive Office of Transportation and
Construction (“EOTC”), to develop programs for meeting the transportation needs
of persons with disabilities and to monitor any policies related thereto;
   (G)   To implement, in conjunction with the city’s Department of
Inspectional Services, Chapter 40 of the Ordinances of 1979, entitled
“Promoting Access to Public Buildings by the Physically Handicapped”, which is
intended to promote full access to public buildings by persons with
disabilities;
   (H)   To work for the advancement of the legal and civil rights of all
persons with disabilities in the city;
   (I)   To coordinate City Departmental compliance with Section 504 and all
federal, commonwealth and city rules and regulations requiring programs,
activities and services to be readily accessible to and usable by persons with
disabilities;
   (J)   To monitor compliance with City Departmental self-evaluation and
transition plans and to make recommendations to the Mayor for corrective action
as required;
   (K)   To develop training and development programs for city personnel to
increase their awareness of real and artificial barriers faced by persons with
disabilities;
   (L)   To administer, in cooperation with the city’s Transportation
Department, the Temporary Identification Card Program, established by
Subsection 6-7.3;
   (M)   To apply for, accept and expend, subject to applicable laws, grants or
gifts of funds and other property; and
   (N)   To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of Commission business,
which shall be approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel, approved and
signed by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk.
(CBC 1985 12-4.4; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)
Cross-reference:
   ss 5-5.32
12-4.5   Powers and Duties of the Commissioner.
   The Commissioner shall have the following specific powers and duties:
   (A)   To hire staff for the Commission consistent with the Commission’s
purpose. The Commissioner shall hire, at a minimum, a Director for Civil
Rights, who shall also be the city’s Section 504 Coordinator;
   (B)   To act as spokesperson for the Commission;
   (C)   To participate in and oversee the day-to-day affairs for the
Commission; and
   (D)   To perform all the functions of a Department head including, but not
limited to, and subject to applicable laws, entering into agreements with
individuals or entities and preparing the annual budget.
(CBC 1985 12-4.5; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)
12-4.6   Powers and Duties of the Associate Members.
   The associate members shall have the following specific powers and duties:
   (A)   To advise the Commissioner on policy and planning and the need for
programs and services for persons with disabilities;
   (B)   To consult with the Commissioner in evaluating and modifying the
city’s policies as they relate to federal, commonwealth and city laws and
regulations concerning the civil rights of persons with disabilities;
   (C)   To assist the Commissioner in establishing priorities for the
Commission’s activities; and
   (D)   To review, at least annually, the programs, policies and budget of the
Commission and to make recommendations as to such programs, policies and
budget.
(CBC 1985 12-4.6; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)
12-4.7   Responsibilities of City Agencies.
   (A)   The services of all City Departments, Agencies, Commissions and
Offices shall be made reasonably available to the Commission for effectuating
the policy of this Section. The head of any City Department, Agency, Commission
or Office shall provide information in the possession of such Department,
Agency, Commission or Office when the Commission so requests and where such
information relates to the functions and responsibilities of the Commission.
Such information may include Departmental self-evaluation and transition plans
pursuant to Section 504 and its implementing regulations.
   (B)   Each Department Head shall designate a liaison to the Commission. The
responsibilities of each liaison shall include:
      (1)   Attendance at trainings and work group sessions as requested; and
      (2)   Coordination of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and/or other
disability related civil rights mandates, including monitoring assistance and
information distribution.
(CBC 1985 12-4.7; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)
12-4.8   Severability.
   If any provision or Subsection of this Section shall be held to be invalid,
such provision or Subsection shall be considered separately and apart from the
remaining provisions or Subsections of this Section, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(CBC 1985 12-4.8; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 2)
12-4.9   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect upon passage.
(CBC 1985 12-4.9; Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 3)
12-4.10   Closed Captioning Activation.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to expand accessible
communication in places of public accommodation.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLOSED CAPTIONING. A transcript or dialog of the audio portion of a
television program that is displayed on the bottom portion of a television
receiver screen when the user activates the feature.
      CLOSED CAPTIONING TELEVISION RECEIVER. A receiver of television
programming that has the ability to display closed captioning, including, but
not limited to, a television, digital set top box and other technology capable
of displaying closed captioning for television programming.
      PUBLIC AREA. Any part of a public facility that is open to the general
public.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. The same meaning as “public accommodation and service”,
as defined in Subsection 12-9.2.
      PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT VENUE. A place that is open to the public for mass
gathering for entertainment, regardless of whether or not a ticket or payment
of any type is required for admission. The term includes, but is not limited
to, cinemas, theaters, concert halls, sports centers and festivals.
      REGULAR HOURS. The hours of any day in which a public facility is
generally open to members of the general public.
   (C)   Activating Closed Captioning.
      (1)   Any person owning or managing a public facility in the city must
activate closed captioning on closed captioned television receivers in use in
any public area during regular hours.
      (2)   Exception: This Section does not require public entertainment
venues to activate closed captioning on closed captioned television receivers.
      (3)   This Section does not require a public facility to make closed
captioning available in a public area of the public facility if:
         (a)   No television receiver of any kind is available in the public
area; or
         (b)   The only public television receiver available in the public area
is not a closed-captioning television receiver.
      (4)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to imply an, exemption
from commonwealth and federal requirements, such as those for effective
communication and reasonable accommodations required under the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   If a violation of this Subsection occurs, individuals can file a
complaint with the Mayor’s Commission for Persons with Disabilities
(“Disabilities Commission”).
      (2)   The Disabilities Commission shall have the authority to investigate
complaints brought before it, including, but not limited to, conducting
unscheduled inspections of public facilities, holding mediation sessions with
public facilities and other interested parties and providing guidance for
bringing public facilities into compliance.
(CBC 1985 12-4.10; Ord. 2022 c. 11)
12-5   COMMISSION ON MENTAL RETARDATION.
12-5.1   Composition of Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Commission on Mental
Retardation, consisting of the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation and the
Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, ex officiis, or their respective
designees and 13 persons appointed by the Mayor, each for a term expiring on
the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election
at which a Mayor is elected. In making the appointments to be made by him or
her, the Mayor shall give consideration to the appointment of persons
associated with, or representative of, the Division of Social and
Rehabilitation Services in the Federal Department of Health, Education and
Welfare; the Area Director for Community Mental Health and Retardation Area VI
in the commonwealth, the Division of Special Education in the City’s School
Department, and the Greater Boston Association for Retarded Children; and nine
inhabitants of the city who are parents of retarded children and indicate a
willingness to serve on the Board.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the members of
the Board as Chair. The Vice-Chair shall be elected by the Board by majority
vote. The Board may appoint a clerical assistant.
   (C)   All members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall
be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 1970 c. 1; Ord. 1971 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 18A § 1; CBC
1975 Ord. T12 § 200; CBC 1985 12-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 12 § 1
12-5.2   Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission on Mental Retardation to meet at
least once each month; to coordinate to the fullest possible extent the work of
all public and private Agencies dealing with the problems besetting the parents
of children who are mentally retarded and assisting retarded children in any
manner; to bring about a continual dialogue and exchange of views between
federal, commonwealth and local Agencies concerned with the effective
administration of programs for the mentally retarded; to conduct either
independently or in conjunction with the School Committee of the city or any
other appropriate Agency such education programs as the Board deems necessary;
to coordinate the existing recreational programs for retarded children; and to
initiate where appropriate new and innovative recreational programs for
retarded children. The Board shall issue an annual report of its activities to
the Mayor and Boston City Council and shall at all times be free to suggest new
programs for the city and request proper financing for such programs as the
Board feels feasible for the program and the city’s needs in the area of mental
retardation.
(Ord. 1970 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 18A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 §
201; CBC 1985 12-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.32; Statutes, Title 7 §§ 109, 110
12-6   YOUTH ACTIVITIES COMMISSION AND CORPORATION.
12-6.1   Youth Services Commission.
   (A)   Composition.
      (1)   There shall be in the city a Youth Services Commission consisting
of the Superintendent of Schools, the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, the
Police Commissioner, the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, the Director of
the Community School program and the Director of the Mayor’s Office of Job and
Community Services, ex officio or their respective designees, the Chair of the
Boston City Council Special Committee on Youth Services, ex officio, and eight
members appointed by the Mayor each for a term expiring on the first Monday of
the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is
elected. In making appointments to the Commission, the Mayor shall appoint
persons with demonstrated experience in counseling, advising or employing
youth; experience as a supervisor or director of a youth program or Agency in
the city; experience in traditional or alternative educational programs for
youth; or experience in the delivery of health or drug abuse prevention
services to children or adolescents. At least one of the Mayor’s appointees to
the commission shall be a young person between the ages of fifteen (16) and 19.
At least one of the Mayor’s appointees to the Commission shall be a parent of a
child or children under age 18. At least one of the Mayor’s appointees shall be
a Boston Housing Authority tenant.
      (2)   The Mayor shall designate one member of the Commission as Chair.
All members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall evaluate the delivery of youth
services in Boston; shall advise the Mayor and the Boston City Council on ways
to expand and coordinate counseling, employment, health, educational and
recreational programs for the youth in Boston and to minimize drug abuse and
violence among children and adolescents; shall work to coordinate the delivery
of youth services by the various Departments and Agencies of the city; shall
work to coordinate the delivery of youth services in Boston by other
governmental and private Agencies; shall work to coordinate and encourage
private sponsorship and investment in youth programs in Boston and shall direct
and oversee the annual compilation and publication of a comprehensive directory
of youth services in Boston.
(CBC 1985 12-6.1; Ord. 1989 c. 10 §§ 1, 2)
12-7   DRUG ABUSE COORDINATING COUNCIL.
12-7.1   Composition of Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Coordinating Council
on Drug Abuse, consisting of the Corporation Counsel, the Commissioner of
Health and Hospitals, the Penal Institutions Commissioner, the Police
Commissioner and the Chair of the Youth Activities Commission, ex officiis, or
their respective designees, and 16 persons appointed by the Mayor each for a
term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. In making the appointments to
be made by him or her, the Mayor shall give consideration to the appointment of
persons associated with, or representative of, the Federal Bureau of Narcotics
and Dangerous Drugs, the Division of Food and Drugs in the commonwealth’s
Department of Public Health, the probation Officers of the Municipal Court of
the city, the Boston Juvenile Court and the other municipal and district courts
in the city, the public and the nonpublic, schools in the city, the Model
Cities Drug Program, the Boston Teachers Union, the Drug Treatment and Drug
Education Committee of United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston and the
project currently coordinated by the Boston University Mental Health Center and
the Boston College-Urban League Joint Center for Intercity Change. At least two
of the persons appointed by the Mayor shall be doctors or psychologists who
have dealt with the medical and psychological problems of youth in Boston.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the members of
the Board as Chair and another as Vice-Chair. The Mayor shall designate a full-
time executive secretary of the Board. The Board may appoint clerical
assistance.
   (C)   All members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall
be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 1969 c. 17; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10C § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 §
300; CBC 1985 12-7.1)
12-7.2   Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the Coordinating Council on Drug Abuse to meet at
least once a month; to coordinate to the fullest possible extent the work of
all public and private Agencies dealing with drug abuse; to effect an ongoing
dialogue and exchange of views between such Agencies; to conduct, either
independently or in conjunction with the School Committee of the city, such
drug education programs as said Council deems advisable; to conduct studies,
investigations and research into the sources and use of harmful drugs and
narcotic drugs as those terms are respectively defined in M.G.L. Chapter 94,
Section 187A and Section 197, as now or hereafter amended; to pursue a course
of action to ensure that all laws governing the sale, possession and use of
both harmful and narcotic drugs are a duly enforced; and by the use of such
media of communication as said Council shall, from time to time, deem
appropriate, keep the inhabitants of the city informed respecting the use of
both harmful and narcotic drugs.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10C § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 301; CBC 1985 12-
7.2)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 94, Sections 187A and 197
12-8   PENAL INSTITUTIONS DEPARTMENT.
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 138 of the Statutes of 1991, Sections 356-363, abolished the city
Penal Institutions Department and the post of Penal Institutions Commissioner.
In addition, the Deer Island House of Corrections mentioned in the ordinance
was subsequently decommissioned upon the opening of the new facility.
12-8.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner.
   The Penal Institutions Department shall be under the charge of the Penal
Institutions Commissioner, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
provided by statute; and shall have the charge and control of Deer Island and
the House of Correction at Deer Island.
(St. 1895 c. 449 § 14; St. 1896 c. 536 § 9; St. 1897 c. 395 § 5; St. 1928 c.
389; Ord. 1924 c. 9; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 350; CBC
1985 12-8.1)
12-8.2   House of Correction at Deer Island.
   The Penal Institutions Commissioner shall exercise the powers and perform
the duties in regard to the House of Correction at Deer Island and the
prisoners committed thereto formerly exercised and performed by the
Institutions Commissioner.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 351; CBC 1985 12-8.2)
12-8.3   Organization of Department.
   The Penal Institutions Commissioner shall be the executive and
administrative head of the Department and may organize said Department as he or
she may find necessary for its proper conduct.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 352; CBC 1985 12-8.3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-5.33
12-8.4   Annual Report.
   The Commissioner shall, in his or her annual report, include a statement of
the expenditures and receipts of each institution for the preceding financial
year, giving the condition of each, with the number of inmates admitted thereto
and discharged therefrom, the births and deaths therein and the number of
persons remaining in the same.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 353; CBC 1985 12-8.4)
12-9   HUMAN RIGHTS.
12-9.1   Policy.
   It is the policy of the city to assure that every resident shall have equal
access to and benefit from all public services, to protect every resident in
the understanding and respect among all residents of the city. It is clear that
behavior which denies equal treatment to any of our citizens as a result of
their religious creed, race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age,
disability, national origin, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment,
sexual orientation, military status, marital status or parental status, or
which is sexually or racially harassing undermines civil order and deprives
persons of the benefits of a free and open society. Nothing in this Section
shall be construed as supporting or advocating any partnership, religious view
or lifestyle. To the contrary, it is the intention of this Section that all
persons be treated fairly and equally and it is the expressed intent of this
Section guarantee to all of our citizens fair and equal treatment under law.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 40; CBC 1985 12-9.1; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. Any persons between the ages of 40 and 65.
   BONA FIDE OCCUPATIONAL QUALIFICATION. A valid consideration of race, color,
sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual
orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior
psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income which is a
requirement for employment and has been certified as such by the Commission or
by the commonwealth’s Commission Against Discrimination under M.G.L. Chapter
151B.
   BONDING TRANSACTION. The furnishing of a performance, fiduciary or other
form of bond to any person.
   COMMISSION. The Human Rights Commission.
   CREDIT TRANSACTION. The open or closed end grant, extension, denial or
termination of credit to any individual.
   DISABILITY. A condition which causes a physical or mental impairment which
limits, or is regarded as limiting one or more major life activity.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITY. Any person, whether organized for profit or not-for-
profit, that holds itself out to the public as providing instruction or
training in the arts, sciences, trade or any other area of learning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who is engaged to work for or under the direction
or control of another for monetary or other valuable consideration, but shall
not include any individual employed by his or her parents, spouse or children.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trustees,
public charity, foundation, political subdivision, Board, Department,
Commission, Agency or any other person which engages and controls the services
of an individual in the city in exchange for monetary or other valuable
consideration, except that it shall not include any employer with six or less
persons in its employ, exclusive of parents, spouse or children, nor does it
include a club exclusively social, or a fraternal association or religious
organization, incorporated or unincorporated, if such fraternal association or
religious organization is not incorporated for profit and if the primary
function thereof is religious or fraternal.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Any person undertaking to procure employees or
opportunities to work for potential employees.
   EX-OFFENDER STATUS.
      (1)   The condition of having been arrested, detained or accused of any
violation of law which no conviction resulted;
      (2)   A final conviction for any of the following misdemeanors:
drunkenness, simple assault, speeding, minor traffic violations, affray or
disturbing the peace; or
      (3)   Any conviction of a misdemeanor where the date of such conviction
or completion of any period of incarceration resulting therefrom, whichever
date is later, occurred five or more years prior to the date of the exercise of
any right or privilege under this Section, unless such person has been
convicted of any offense within five years immediately preceding the exercise
of any right or privilege under this Section.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Boston Human Rights
Commission as established by this Section.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION. A person’s actual or perceived gender, as
well as a person’s gender identity, gender-related self-image, gender-related
appearance or gender-related expression whether or not that gender identity,
gender-related self-image, gender-related appearance or gender-related
expression is different from that traditionally associated with a person’s sex
at birth.
   INSURANCE TRANSACTIONS. The sale, grant or other provision of insurance to
any person.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Any organization which exists and is constituted for the
purpose, in whole or part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment or of other
mutual aid or protection in connection with employment.
   MARITAL STATUS. The actual condition of being or having been married,
separated or divorced or the condition of being single.
   MILITARY STATUS. The condition of being, or having been in the services of
the military.
   PARENTAL STATUS. The condition of having minor or disabled children.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations,
agencies, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and
receivers, the city and all political subdivisions, Boards and Commissions;
provided, however, PERSON shall not be applied to an individual acting in a
purely private transaction.
   PRIOR PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT. An actual or supposed mental impairment of a
person caused by illness, injury, birth, professional treatment or
hospitalization.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION AND SERVICE. Any place, business, facility or other
establishment of whatever kind, or Agency, whether owned privately or by a
public Agency which caters or offers services, facilities or goods to or is
intended for the use or convenience of the general public whether for a charge
or fee or not. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to include or apply
to any place, business, facility or other establishment which is by its nature
distinctly private, except that when such establishment caters or offers
services to the general public, it shall be deemed a PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION
during such period.
   RESPONDENT. A person against whom a complaint has been filed pursuant to
this Section.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Actual or supposed homosexuality, heterosexuality or
bisexuality by orientation or practice, including, but not limited to, an
orientation or practice, including, but not limited to, an orientation that may
be presumed on the basis of mannerisms, physical characteristics, manner of
dress or deportment.
   SOURCE OF INCOME. The manner or means by which an individual supports
himself or herself, and his or her dependents, except that in this Section it
shall not include any criminal activity from which a source of income is
derived.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 40; CBC 1985 12-9.2; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.3   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Employment.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this Section for a person directly or indirectly to refuse to hire, employ,
classify or upgrade; to bar or to discharge from employment; or otherwise
discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges of
employment, including compensation, because of the race, color, sex, gender
identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin,
ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender
status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of
such individual, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. A
person who asserts that a discriminatory employment practice is justified
because of a bona fide occupational qualification which has not been certified
as such by the Commission or by the commonwealth’s Commission Against
Discrimination under M.G.L. Chapter 151B shall have the burden of showing that
the discrimination is in fact a necessary result of a bona fide occupational
qualification and that there exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying
the occupational qualification.
   (B)   It shall further be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a
violation of this Section for any employment agency, directly or indirectly, to
fail or refuse to classify properly or refer for employment or otherwise
discriminate against any person because of the race, color, sex, gender
identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin,
ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender
status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of
such person. An employment agency that specializes in the recruitment and
placement of elderly or disabled employees shall be exempt from the operation
of this Section with respect to such specialized services for the elderly or
disabled; provided that such specialized services not discriminate among the
elderly or disabled on the basis of other discriminatory criteria.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to bar any religious or
denominational institution or organization, or any organization operated for
charitable or educational purposes, which is operated, supervised or controlled
by or in connection with a religious organization, and which limits membership,
enrollment, admission or participation to members of that religion, from giving
preference in hiring or employment to members of the same religion, or
employment limited to the elderly or disabled; provided that such employment
shall not discriminate among the elderly or disabled on the basis of other
discriminatory criteria.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.3; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.4   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Labor Organizations.
   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this
Section for a labor organization, directly or indirectly, to refuse to admit to
membership, apprenticeship, training or classification or to discriminate
otherwise against any individual, absent a bona fide occupational reason or
other reasonable cause, because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or
expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, sexual
orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior
psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such individuals.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.4; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.5   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Credit Transactions, Bonding and
Insurance.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this Section for any bank, financial institution or other credit granting or
approving institution or person, including any retail store that sells goods or
services on credit, directly or indirectly, to discriminate in the granting,
reporting, approval or extension of any form of loan or credit to any person
because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious
creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital
status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment,
military status or source of income of such person. It shall not be an unlawful
discriminatory practice under this Subsection to establish or review the
creditworthiness of any person by seeking information relevant to such
creditworthiness such as amount and source of income, age, employment history,
credit references and the number and age of dependents.
   (B)   Further, it shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a
violation of this Section for any bonding institution or person engaged in the
service of providing financial and performance bonds to refuse to bond any
person or discriminate in the terms of bonding any persons because of the race,
color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status,
prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such
individual.
   (C)   Further, it shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a
violation of this Section for any insurance company to refuse to insure any
person or discriminate in the terms of insuring any individual because of the
race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status,
parental status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status, ex-offender
status or source of income of such person, unless based on a bona fide
actuarially determined insurance factor relative to the age or health of the
person which affects the risk for which such insurance is being sought.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.5; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.6   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Education.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this
Section for any educational facility, directly or indirectly, to fail or refuse
to admit, or to curtail or terminate admission to, or to discriminate in the
terms or conditions of educational services, opportunities and curriculum
offered to any person, absent a showing of reasonable cause as to why such
discrimination may be warranted because of the race, color, sex, gender
identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin,
ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, prior psychiatric treatment,
military status, parental status, ex-offender status or source of income of
such person.
   (B)   The following practices shall be exempt from the operation of this
Section: the selection of students by a religious educational facility that is
limited exclusively or gives preference to members of such religion; the
establishment or maintenance by an educational facility of a school or program
limited to the members of only one sex or otherwise segregated by sex,
consistent however, with federal and commonwealth statutes, the establishment
by an education facility of minimum or maximum age requirements for any
educational program; and the establishment by an educational facility of
special programs designed to assist or provide special training for the
disabled, the elderly, individuals who do not speak English or the economically
impoverished.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.6; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.7   Discriminatory Practices Regarding Public Accommodations and Services.
   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this
Section for any person that owns, leases, rents, operates, manages or in any
manner controls a public accommodation, directly or indirectly, or who provides
a public service, to withhold, deny, curtail or in any manner limit or
discriminate with respect to the full use of such public accommodation or
service because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age,
religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, sexual orientation,
marital status, parental status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status,
ex-offender status or source of income of such individual, unless such public
accommodation or service specifically designated for the exclusive use of the
elderly or disabled; provided, however, nothing contained herein shall permit
the use of restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms or other private
accommodations which are separated by sex to be used to by the opposite sex,
except it shall be an unlawful and discriminatory practice to prevent or
prohibit the use of restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms or other private
accommodations based on the gender identity publicly and exclusively expressed
or asserted by the person seeking to use such restrooms, baths, showers,
dressing rooms or other private accommodations.
(Ord. 1984 C 16, c. 30; CBC 1985 12-9.7 Ord. 2002 c. 9)
12-9.8   Other Unlawful Practices.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this Section for any person to discriminate against any individual because he
or she opposed any practice made unlawful by this Section, or testified,
assisted or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or
hearing under this Section.
   (B)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this Section for any person to aid or abet another in the violation of any
provision of this Section.
   (C)   It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of
this Section to cause or attempt to cause any person to discriminate against an
individual in violation of this Section.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.8)
12-9.9   Establishment of the Boston Human Rights Commission, Executive
Director, Staff.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Commission known as the Boston Human
Rights Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. The Commission
shall be comprised of seven members, to be known as Commissioners, each
appointed by the Mayor. The Commissioners shall each serve a term of three
years; provided, however, that of the members first appointed to the
Commission, three shall be appointed for a term of one year, two shall be
appointed for a term of two years and two shall be appointed for a term of
three years. Thereafter, the Mayor shall appoint each successor to a term of
three years. Any vacancy occurring otherwise than by expiration of term shall
be filled by appointment by the Mayor for the unexpired term.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint annually a Commissioner as the Chairperson of
the Commission. Four Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purposes
of conducting the business of the Commission. Four votes shall be required to
pass any Commission decision.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall be subject to the residency and voting
requirements appearing in Subsection 5-5.2, notwithstanding the exception
contained therein. The Commissioners shall be classified special municipal
employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A. The Commissioners shall
serve without compensation, but each Commissioner shall be entitled to his or
her reasonable expenses actually and necessarily incurred in the performance of
his or her duties as Commissioner. These expenditures shall be paid from the
budget of the Commission. The Commission staff shall consist of an Executive
Director, and such personnel as the Commission, upon recommendation of the
Executive Director, may deem expedient subject to appropriation.
   (D)   The Executive Director shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure
of the Mayor. The Mayor shall determine the rate of compensation for the
Executive Director.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17; CBC 1985 12-9.9)
12-9.10   Powers and Duties of Executive Director.
   (A)   The Executive Director shall have the powers of a Department head
except for those powers explicitly conveyed to the Commission by this Section
and shall be responsible for carrying out the policies and decisions of the
Commission.
   (B)   The Executive Director shall have the power and duty to make
investigations of discriminatory practices which appear to be in violation of
this Section and to file complaints with the Commission based upon findings of
fact, and conclusions of law only, where there is a probable cause that a
violation of this Section has occurred. The Executive Director shall be
required to appear quarterly before the Boston City Council to give a report of
the Commission’s activities and to answer questions of the Council. The
Executive Director shall have the power to attempt to mediate or conciliate any
complaint of alleged discrimination under this Section where there is probable
cause for such complaint. The Executive Director shall further file, on
conforming forms, all complaints with the commonwealth’s Commission Against
Discrimination and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission where such
complaints relate to discrimination under the jurisdiction of the MCAD and/or
the EEOC. The Executive Director shall fix the compensation of the Commission
staff within the budgetary limits of the Commission after appropriation by the
Boston City Council.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.10)
12-9.11   Powers and Duties of the Commission.
   (A)   The Commission shall study the problems of discrimination in the city
and shall make such recommendations to the Mayor and the Boston City Council,
as in its judgment will effectuate the policy of this Section.
   (B)   The Commission may, on its own behalf, issue a complaint, upon a
reasonable belief that a person has engaged in an unlawful discriminatory
practice.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the power to conduct hearings, subpoena
witnesses, compel their attendance, including, but not limited to, filing
contempt proceedings with Superior Court, administer oaths, take the testimony
of any person under oath and in connection therewith to require the production
for examination of any documents, books, papers or evidence relating to any
matter in question or under investigation by the Commission. The Commission may
delegate any of its hearing powers to individual Commissioners or members of
the Commission staff. Subpoena power shall be exercised by the Chairperson of
the Commission, or his or her designee, upon majority vote of the Commission.
At any hearing before the Commission, or any Committee thereof, a witness shall
have the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the power to issue publications, results of
investigations and research as, in its judgment, will promote good will and
minimize or eliminate prejudice, intolerance, bigotry or discrimination and
disorder occasioned thereby.
   (E)   The Commission shall, upon the Executive Director’s failure to
conciliate a complaint, submit a written report of its findings and
recommendations to the Mayor with copies of this report filed with the Boston
City Council, the Corporation Counsel, the commonwealth’s Commission Against
Discrimination (on matters within its jurisdiction) and to any other
governmental Agency or court having jurisdiction.
   (F)   Further, the Commission has the power to adopt rules and regulations
which it deems necessary to the function of the Commission; provided, however,
that all such rules and regulations shall, for a 30-day period following their
adoption by the Commission, be held for review and comment by the Boston City
Council in an open public hearing, and may be referred to the Corporation
Counsel by a vote of a majority of members of the Boston City Council for a
ruling on the appropriateness of such rules or regulations. The Commission may
recommend to the Mayor and or the Boston City Council additional legislation to
aid in the carrying out of the purposes of this Section.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 18; CBC 1985 12-9.11)
12-9.12   Procedures.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by an alleged discriminatory
practice under this Section or claiming to represent an aggrieved person, may,
by himself or herself or his or her attorney, file with the Commission a
verified written complaint. The Complaint shall state the name and address of
the person alleged to have committed the discriminatory practice and shall set
forth in detail the particular circumstances. The complaint shall be amended to
include additional information as required by the Commission. No complaint
shall be considered unless it is filed with the Commission within 180 days
after the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory practice, or unless it has
been referred to the Commission by the commonwealth’s Commission Against
Discrimination or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission after having been
timely filed with either and or both Agencies.
   (B)   The Executive Director shall forthwith transmit a copy of the
complaint to the respondent by hand or by certified mail return receipt
requested.
   (C)   The Commission shall not accept a complaint from any person who has
filed a complaint with the commonwealth’s Commission Against Discrimination
with respect to the same grievance unless requested by the commonwealth’s
Commission Against Discrimination to do so.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a duly filed complaint, the Executive Director shall
cause a prompt investigation to be made in connection therewith. After
completing the investigation, the Executive Director shall file a written
report containing a recommendation concerning the disposition of the matter
with the Commission.
   (E)   Under no circumstances may a report reflect bias where a respondent
has exercised his or her constitutional rights relative to providing testimony
which may tend to incriminate one’s self. Neither may the Commission proceed
with a complaint unless there is sufficient probable cause that a violation
exists, such probable cause being based on evidence which will stand the test
of court scrutiny as to its merit and substance. If, after a review of a
complaint, the Commission finds that no probable cause exists for crediting the
allegations of the complaint, the Commission shall order the Executive Director
to issue and transmit to complainant and the respondent, by hand or certified
mail, return receipt requested, an order dismissing the allegations. The
Executive Director on behalf of the Commission shall also issue a notice to
both complainant and respondent a copy of federal and commonwealth laws
governing legal actions one may pursue relative to frivolous actions. If the
Commission shall determine after such investigation or review that probable
cause exists for crediting the allegations of the complaint, the Commission
shall order the Executive Director to immediately endeavor to eliminate the
discriminatory practice complained of through persuasion, conciliation and
negotiation. Nothing said or done during and as part of such conciliation
efforts shall be made public or used as evidence in subsequent proceedings
unless each of the interested parties agree thereto in writing. If conciliation
succeeds, the terms of the conciliation agreement shall be reduced to writing
and signed by or on behalf of the parties and the Commission. Conciliation
agreements may be made public, but such public disclosure shall not reveal the
identities of the parties involved, except with the agreement of all
respondents. In case of failure to reach a conciliation agreement to eliminate
a discriminatory practice within 30 days after a determination of probable
cause, or in advance thereof if the Commission believes the circumstances so
warrant, or if probable cause exists that a conciliation agreement has been
violated, the Executive Director shall cause to be issued and served in the
name of the Commission, a written notice together with a copy of such
complaint, as the same may have been amended, requiring the respondent to
answer the charges of such complaint at a hearing before the Commission, at a
time and place to be specified in such notice. The respondent may file in
person or otherwise a verified written answer to the complaint and appear at
such a hearing in person, with or without counsel.
   (F)   The Executive Director, or his or her designee, shall present evidence
at the hearing. The Commission shall not be bound by the strict rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law. The testimony, however, shall be under
oath and shall be recorded upon the request of either party. Each party
respondent may appear at such hearing in person or by a duly authorized
representative. Each party may present testimony and evidence.
   (G)   Each party shall have the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses.
   (H)   If, upon all the evidence, the Commission finds that a respondent has
not engaged in any such discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation
agreement, the Commission shall issue and transmit to the complainant and the
respondent, by hand or by certified mail return receipt requested, an order
dismissing that complaint as to such respondent.
   (I)   If, upon all the evidence presented at the hearing, the Commission
determines that a respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice as
defined in this Section or has violated a conciliation agreement, the
Commission shall issue an order stating its findings of fact and order for
resolving the complaint.
   (J)   The Commission shall establish rules of practice to govern, expedite
and effectuate the foregoing procedure and its own actions thereunder.
   (K)   If a finding is made that a respondent has engaged in a discriminatory
practice or violated a conciliation agreement, the Commission shall make a
written report of its findings and recommendations to the Mayor and the Boston
City Council, with a copy to the Corporation Counsel, on any matter within his
or her jurisdiction for review and implementation or to the commonwealth’s
Commission Against Discrimination on any matter in question, and in all cases,
urging and using its best efforts to bring about compliance with the
Commission’s order. In the conduct of any mediation, investigation, hearing or
representation of any conciliation, complaint, the Commission may call upon not
only the members and staff of the Commission, but to the extent practicable,
any City Department or Agency.
   (L)   If a finding is made that a respondent, who has engaged in a
discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation agreement, is a city
contractor or subcontractor performing under municipally funded or assisted
contracts, the Mayor shall cause said contracts or subcontracts to be
immediately reviewed, and may suspend or revoke said contracts or subcontracts,
or otherwise employ all available means to bring the contractor or
subcontractor into immediate compliance.
   (M)   If a finding is made that a respondent, who has engaged in a
discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation agreement, is a
licensee, who has obtained a license to operate from the city or Agency
thereof, the Mayor shall cause said license to be immediately reviewed, and may
suspend or revoke said license, or otherwise employ all available means to
bring the licensee into immediate compliance.
   (N)   Any person aggrieved by a finding of the Commission is entitled to
reconsideration, upon written summary and transcripts by the full Commission.
Written request for such rehearing must be filed with the Commission within
seven days of receipt of the Commission’s written report. Upon receipt of a
request for reconsideration the Commission shall notify all interested parties
who shall have seven days to submit any documents, reports or summaries to the
Commission. The full Commission shall meet in executive session to review the
complaint, summaries, written reports, transcripts, documents or other
material, within 60 days of the receipt of the request for reconsideration.
   (O)   A certified copy of any report, finding or order of the Commission may
be admitted as evidence in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (P)   Nothing herein shall in any way violate open hearing laws of the
commonwealth or the Federal Freedom of Information Act, being 5 U.S.C. § 552.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17; CBC 1985 12-9.12)
12-9.13   Construction of Ordinance.
   The provisions of this Section shall be construed for the accomplishment of
the purposes hereof. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit civil rights
granted or hereinafter afforded by the laws of the United States Government or
of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.13)
12-9.14   Effect of Commonwealth and Federal Laws.
   (A)   Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to exempt or relieve any
person from any liability, duty, penalty or punishment provided by any present
or future law of the commonwealth or the United States, other than any such law
which purports to require or permit the doing of any act which would be
unlawful under this Section.
   (B)   Any remedies provided by this Section shall be cumulative with any
other remedies provided by commonwealth or federal law.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.14)
12-9.15   Severability.
   If any provision or Subsection of this Section shall be held to be invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision or Section be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions or Sections of
this Section, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1984 c. 16; CBC 1985 12-9.15)
12-9A   PROTECTION OF FAMILIES.
12-9A.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSUME RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE WELFARE OF. Assume an obligation to provide,
if necessary, for a person’s basic living expenses and to assume joint
responsibility for any other expenses of that person which arise out of a
program or benefit for which that person qualified because of a statement filed
pursuant to this Section, subject to the limitations contained in Subsection
12-9A.5.
   BASIC LIVING EXPENSES. The cost of food, shelter, utilities and essential
household goods. The individuals need not contribute equally to the cost of
these expenses. Labor or services in kind shall be recognized as contributions
to BASIC LIVING EXPENSES.
   DEPENDENT. A person registered pursuant to Subsection 12-9A.2, who has not
registered as a domestic partner and who receives significant financial or
significant in-kind assistance toward his or her caretaking or costs of food,
shelter, utilities and essential household goods from the domestic partnership.
   DOMESTIC PARTNER. A person who meets the criteria set out in this Subsection
and registers pursuant to Subsection 12-9A.2.
   DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP. Two persons who meet the following criteria and affirm
that:
      (1)   They share basic living expenses;
      (2)   They assume responsibility for the welfare of their partner and any
dependents registered pursuant to Subsection 12-9A.2;
      (3)   They are at least 18 years of age;
      (4)   They are competent to enter into a contract;
      (5)   They declare that they are each other’s sole domestic partner;
      (6)   They are not married to anyone nor related to each other by blood
closer than would bar marriage in the commonwealth;
      (7)   They shall notify the City Clerk of any change in the status of
their domestic partnership; and
      (8)   They register their domestic partnership as set forth in Subsection
12-9A.2; and their dependents as registered pursuant to Subsection 12-9A.2.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.1; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 1)
12-9A.2   Registration.
   (A)   Statement of domestic partnership.
      (1)   Domestic partners may make an official record of their domestic
partnership by completing, signing and submitting to the City Clerk a statement
of domestic partnership. Persons submitting a statement of domestic partnership
must declare under penalty of perjury that they meet the criteria set out in
Subsection 12-9A.1.
      (2)   The domestic partnership statement shall include the names of the
domestic partners, the date on which they became each other’s domestic partners
and the names of any dependents of the domestic partnership.
   (B)   Registration of additional dependents. Domestic partners shall amend
their registration statement whenever additional dependents become part of the
domestic partnership. Only those dependents who are registered pursuant to this
Section shall be considered dependents of a domestic partnership.
   (C)   Termination of domestic partnership. Either member of a domestic
partnership may terminate the domestic partnership by filing a termination
statement with the City Clerk. Termination of a domestic partnership shall
become effective 90 days after the termination statement is filed with the City
Clerk, except that a domestic partnership shall terminate immediately upon the
death of one of the partners; and provided, however, that all rights and
benefits extended to dependents of a domestic partnership shall survive
termination of the domestic partnership if the domestic partner through whom
the dependent obtains the right or benefit continues to have responsibility for
the welfare of the dependent. In the event of the death of one of the domestic
partners, the surviving partner shall notify the City Clerk by sending the City
Clerk a copy of the death certificate. Any person filing a termination
statement must declare under penalty of perjury that:
      (1)   The domestic partnership is terminated; and
      (2)   The other domestic partner has been notified either personally or
by mailing a copy of the termination statement to the other domestic partner’s
last and usual address by certified mail.
   (D)   New statements of domestic partnership. No person may file a statement
of domestic partnership until any previous domestic partnership of which they
were a member has been effectively terminated.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.2; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 2)
12-9A.3   City Clerk.
   (A)   Records. The City Clerk shall maintain adequate records of domestic
partnership statements showing which domestic partnerships have been created,
terminated and amended. The City Clerk shall provide forms as necessary to
those who request them.
   (B)   Fees for statements.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall charge a fee for filing a domestic partnership
statement. The amount of this fee shall be equivalent to the fee charged to
file a marriage license.
      (2)   Copies of a domestic partnership statement, certified by the City
Clerk, or copies of amendment or termination statements, certified by the City
Clerk, shall cost $12 per copy.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.3; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 3; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 3; Ord. 2003 c.
5 § 1)
12-9A.4   Visitation and Other Rights.
   (A)   Health care facilities. All public health care facilities in Boston,
including, but not limited to, hospitals, convalescent facilities, mental
health care facilities or other long-term care facilities, shall afford
domestic partners the same visitation rights as afforded to a spouse or parent
of a patient, and shall afford dependents of the domestic partnership the same
visitation rights as afforded to a patient’s child. For the purpose of
visitation rights pursuant to this Section, an individual who is a registered
as a domestic partner in the city or as a dependent of a domestic partnership,
but who cannot produce documentation of such registration, shall be afforded
such recognition, during periods of time when the City Clerk’s Office is not
open for business, upon the submission to the health care facility of a
statement signed under penalty of perjury that the individual meets the
requirements of a domestic partner or dependent as defined in this Section.
This statement shall have no other effect beyond providing the individual with
visitation rights equivalent to those of a spouse, child or parent of a
patient. It shall be the responsibility of the health care facility to inform
individuals of this right upon denial of visitation where a spouse, child or
parent would have been afforded visitation rights.
   (B)   Jail, prison and juvenile correction centers visitation. All jails,
prisons and juvenile correction centers under the jurisdiction of the city
shall afford domestic partners the same visitation rights afforded to a spouse
or parent of an inmate, and shall afford dependents of the domestic partnership
the same visitation rights afforded to an inmate’s child. For the purpose of
visitation rights pursuant to this Section, an individual who is registered as
a domestic partner in the city or as a dependent of a domestic partnership, but
who cannot produce documentation of such registration, shall be afforded such
recognition, during periods of time when the City Clerk’s Office is not open
for business, upon the submission to the jail, prison or juvenile correction
center of a statement signed under penalty of perjury that the individual meets
the requirements of a domestic partner or dependent as defined in this Section.
This statement shall have no other effect beyond providing the individual with
visitation rights equivalent to those of a spouse, child or parent of an
inmate. It shall be the responsibility of the jail, prison or juvenile
correction center to inform individuals of this right upon denial of visitation
where a spouse, child or parent would have been afforded visitation rights.
   (C)   Schools and day care centers.
      (1)   All public schools and public day care centers in Boston shall
afford both members of a domestic partnership equal access to records
pertaining to a dependent of the domestic partnership to the extent permissible
under commonwealth law. Such schools and day care centers shall afford both
members of a domestic partnership the same rights and access to employees in
matters concerning their dependent to which any biological parent of a child
enrolled in that school or day care center would be entitled.
      (2)   All such schools and day care centers shall consider dependents of
a domestic partnership to be siblings, and shall treat them in the same manner
they treat siblings of any other family.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.4; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 4)
12-9A.5   Limitation of Liabilities.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to create additional legal
liabilities greater than those already existing under law or to create any new
private causes of action.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.5; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 5)
12-9A.6   Retaliation.
   No person who seeks the benefit of this Section, registers pursuant to its
provisions or assists another person in obtaining the benefits of this Section
shall be discriminated against in any way for doing so. Any person who so
discriminates shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of the
Boston Human Rights Ordinance.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.6; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 6)
12-9A.7   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable. If any of its provisions are
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions shall
continue in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.7; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 7)
12-9A.8   Forms.
   The City Clerk shall distribute copies of the forms following this Section
to those who request them. Said forms shall be considered a part of this
Section, and consist of the following:
   (A)   Statement of Domestic Partnership;
   (B)   Statement of Terminating Domestic Partnership; and
   (C)   Statement of Additional Dependents.
(CBC 1985 12-9A.8; Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 8)
Editor’s note:
   The copies of the forms referred to herein may be found at the end of this
Section.
12-9A.9   Employee Health Insurance Study.
   (A)   The city shall conduct a study of:
      (1)   Possible cost-saving measures which would reduce the city’s costs
for the provision of health insurance benefits to its employees; and
      (2)   Costs and other issues related to the extension of health insurance
benefits to city employees’ domestic partners and their dependents.
   (B)   This study shall be completed, and copies shall be made available to
the Boston City Council, by June 30, 1994.
(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 9)
FORM A: STATEMENT OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP
 
   CITY OF BOSTON
   OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK
 
   Statement of Domestic Partnership
 
We,                                                                           Full name
   Date of Birth:    / /
               Month/Day/Year
 
and                                                                           Full name
   Date of Birth:    / /
               Month/Day/Year
 
declare that:
 
   (1)   we share basic living expenses;
   (2)   we assume responsibility for each other’s welfare and for the welfare of any dependents listed below;
   (3)   we are at least eighteen years of age;
   (4)   we are competent to enter into a contract;
   (5)   we are each other’s sole domestic partner;
   (6)   we are not married to anyone, nor related to each other by blood closer than would bar marriage in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and
   (7)   we shall notify the City Clerk of any change in the status of our domestic partnership.
 
We became each other’s domestic partner on                                                       
Our domestic partnership is a family which includes the following dependents
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                         
I declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and correct.
 
Signed:                                                                  
 
Printed Name:                                                        
 
Date:                                                                      
 
Signed:                                                                   
Printed Name:                                                         
 
Date:                                                                      
 
FORM B: STATEMENT OF TERMINATING DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP.
 
   CITY OF BOSTON
   OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK
 
   Statement of Terminating Domestic Partnership
 
I declare that: __________________________
 
   (1)                                                     and I are
       Full name of domestic partner
 
No longer domestic partners; and
 
   (2)   I notified my former domestic partner of this statement in person/by certified mail (please circle one) on
 
                                                                    
      Date
 
I declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and accurate.
 
Signed:                                                                  
 
Printed Full Name:                                                    
Date:                                                              
 
FORM C: STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL DEPENDENTS.
 
   CITY OF BOSTON
   OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK
 
   Statement of Additional Dependents
 
Our domestic partnership/extended family (circle appropriate term) now includes the following additional dependents:
                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                 
I declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and correct.
 
Signed:                                                                  
 
Printed Full Name:                                                  
 
Date:                                                                     
 
12-10   RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Former Section 12-10, Establishing the Boston Employment Commission,
previously codified herein and containing portions of Ordinance Nos. 1986 c.
12, 1986 c. 13, 1986 c. 17, and 2010 c. 9 were repealed in their entirety by
Ordinance No. 2017 c. 1, § 1.
12-11   NEIGHBORHOOD JOBS TRUST.
12-11.1   Policy of the City.
   The construction or rehabilitation of new large-scale real estate
development projects in the city, especially in conjunction with other market
forces, results in lost employment opportunities for Boston’s low or moderate
income residents who have their existing employment or promotional
opportunities diminished, or who are unable to successfully compete for new
employment opportunities resulting from such construction or rehabilitation.
The existence of such unemployment or underemployment in the city constitutes a
serious and growing menace, injurious and inimical to the safety, health,
morals and welfare of the residents of the city and sound growth of the city;
and the existence of such lack of adequate employment opportunities contributes
substantially to crime necessitating excessive and disproportionate expenditure
of public funds for the preservation of the public health and safety, for crime
prevention, correction, prosecution, punishment and the treatment of juvenile
delinquency and for the maintenance of adequate Police, fire and accident
protection and other public services and facilities, which constitutes an
economic and social liability, substantially impairs or arrests the sound
growth of the city. Because of the economic and social interdependence of
different areas within the city, the full employment of all those who can and
wish to work not only in the “downtown” commercial areas but also in decadent
areas is necessary in order to: promote the sound growth of the city; to
achieve permanent and comprehensive elimination of existing slums and
substandard and decadent conditions; and to prevent the recurrence of such
substandard or decadent conditions or their development in other parts of the
city; and the abandonment of existing industries and employment opportunities
in such areas exacerbates decadent or substandard conditions; and the menace of
underemployment or unemployment is beyond remedy and control solely by the
regulatory process in the exercise of the police power and such menace has not
been dealt with effectively by the ordinary operations of private enterprise.
Limited public resources require that government dollars for job training, re-
training, adult literacy and job counseling programs be highly leveraged by
private investment; and the development of employment training and employment
opportunities eliminating underemployment and unemployment in the city is a
public use and purpose for which public money may be expended; and the
aforesaid conditions have not been corrected by the ordinary operations of
private enterprise in a regulated market; now, the following is declared to be
in the public interest.
(CBC 1985 12-11.1; Ord. 1987 c. 11 Preamble)
12-11.2   Establishment of Neighborhood Jobs Trust.
   The Collector-Treasurer shall establish the “Neighborhood Jobs Trust”, which
trust shall be established in the form and manner of the attached Declaration
of Trust. Subject to approval by the Boston City Council and the Mayor, the
Neighborhood Jobs Trust is hereby authorized to accept and expend any and all
funds contributed to it consistent with the purposes of the attached
Declaration of Trust.
(CBC 1985 12-11.2; Ord. 1987 c. 11 § 1 T12)
Editor’s note:
   The text of the Declaration of Trust is on file in the Office of the City
Clerk.
12-12   HIRING OF STRIKEBREAKERS OR REPLACEMENT WORKERS.
Editor’s note:
   This Section (Chapter 8 of 1990) was found to be unconstitutional and
preempted by federal laws, by judgment of the United States District Court for
the District of Massachusetts, dated March 23, 1992, in the case of Greater
Boston Chamber of Commerce v. City of Boston, 778 F. Supp. 95 (1991).
12-12.1   Policy.
   It shall be the policy of the city in accordance with the provisions of
M.G.L. Chapter 40 Section 21 to regulate the conduct of employers who attempt
to replace employees who are members of or are associated with a labor
organization in order to protect the safety, convenience and peaceful enjoyment
of the residents, visitors and tourists of the city.
(CBC 1985 12-12.1; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 1)
12-12.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs services for wages or salary under a
contract of employment, express or implied, for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, partnership or corporation who employs any
employee to perform services for a wage or salary and includes any agent of any
employer acting directly or indirectly.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Any organization of any kind or any agency or employee
representation committee or plan in which employees participate and which
exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers
concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment
or conditions of work.
   LOCKOUT. A refusal by an employer to permit his or her employees to work as
a result of a dispute with such employees that affects wages, hours and other
terms and conditions of employment of said employees; provided, however, that a
LOCKOUT shall not include a termination of employment for reasons deemed proper
under commonwealth and federal law.
   REPLACEMENT WORKER. Any individual hired for the purpose of replacing either
permanently or temporarily an employee who is currently engaged in a lawful
strike or who is locked out by his or her employer.
   STRIKE. Any concerted act of the employees in a lawful refusal of the
employees to perform work or services for the employer; provided, such acts are
not recognized as unlawful under commonwealth or federal law, and if the
employees are represented by a labor organization, that the said labor
organization shall have approved or sanctioned the act.
   STRIKEBREAKER. Any person who customarily and repeatedly offers himself or
herself for employment for the duration of a strike or lockout in the place of
an employee involved in a strike or lockout.
(CBC 1985 12-12.2; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 2)
12-12.3   Unlawful Conduct.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any employer willfully and
knowingly to employ any strikebreaker to replace employees who are either on
strike against or locked out by such employer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any employer not directly
involved in a strike or lockout to recruit, secure or offer to secure
employment for any strikebreaker or any replacement worker where it is found
that such action is likely to cause a threat to the public safety, violence or
harm to persons or property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any employer to employ one or
more replacement workers, where it is found that such hiring of replacement
workers is likely to cause a threat to the public safety, violence or harm to
persons or property.
   (D)   The findings required under divisions (B) and (C) above shall be
satisfied either by:
      (1)   Deployment by the Boston Police Department of detail Officers or
regular Officers in order to preserve the public peace, prevent violence,
prevent intimidation or prevent threats to the public safety in association
with a strike or a lockout; or
      (2)   A determination by the Police Commissioner that one or more actions
taken in association with hiring replacement workers is likely to cause a
threat to the public peace or public safety, violence, intimidation or harm to
persons or property.
(CBC 1985 12-12.3; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 12-12.4
12-12.4   Penalties.
   In accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 50, Section 21, the
Police Commissioner of the city shall enforce the provisions of this Section.
Each strikebreaker or replacement worker employed, recruited or secured for
employment, and each attempt or offer to recruit or secure employment, in
violation of any provision of Subsection 12-12.3, shall be construed as a
separate and succeeding offense. Each day or part thereof of violation of any
provision of Subsection 12-12.3, whether such violation be continuous or
intermittent, shall be construed as a separate and succeeding offense. Each
violation shall carry a penalty of $200.
(CBC 1985 12-12.4; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 4)
12-12.5   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.
(CBC 1985 12-12.5; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 5)
12-12.6   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if any one or more
provisions, or parts or subparts thereof, shall be held unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction the decision of such
court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions or parts
thereof.
(CBC 1985 12-12.6; Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 6)
12-13   PARENTAL SCHOOL LEAVE.
12-13.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYER. The owner and/or proprietor of a business with 25 or more
employees working at any same location.
   PARENTS. The biological and/or adopted parents of a child attending the
Boston Public Schools or a legal guardian of a child attending the Boston
Public Schools.
   PUPIL. Any child attending the Boston Public School System.
   SCHOOLS. All public schools in the city funded entirely or partially by the
city.
(CBC 1985 12-13.1; Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 1)
12-13.2   Legislative Intent.
   This Section would allow parents of school-aged pupils in kindergarten and
grades one to 12 an opportunity to spend up to three days per year for school
visits if the employee, prior to taking off, gives reasonable notice to the
employer of the planned absence of the employee. The Section would require an
employee to utilize existing vacation, personal leave or compensatory time off
for purposes of this planned absence, unless otherwise provided by a collective
bargaining agreement, and/or agreed upon by the employee and employer and, if
requested by the employer, to provided documentation, as prescribed, from the
school as proof of these visits. All employers, notwithstanding staff size, are
encouraged to grant employees up to three days per year with pay.
(CBC 1985 12-13.2; Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 2)
12-13.3   Operation of Section.
   (A)   No employer, who employs 25 or more employees working at the same
location, shall discharge or in anyway discriminate against an employee who is
a parent or guardian of any child in kindergarten or grades one to 12,
inclusive, for taking off up to three days each school calender to visit the
school of the pupil(s), if the employee, prior to taking time off, gives clear
and reasonable notice to the employer of the planned absence of the employee.
An employee shall utilize existing vacation, personal leave or compensatory
time off for purposes of this planned absence, unless otherwise provided by a
collective bargaining agreement. The employee, if requested by the employer,
shall provide documentation from the school as proof that he or she visited the
school on a specific date and at a particular time. For purposes of this
Subsection, DOCUMENTATION shall mean whatever written verification of a
parental visit the school deems appropriate and reasonable.
   (B)   Any employee who is discharged, demoted, threatened, suspended or in
any other manner discriminated against in terms and conditions of employment by
his or her employer because the employee has taken time off to visit the school
or his or her child pursuant to the intent of this Section shall be immediately
entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement of lost wages and work benefits
caused by the acts of the employer. Any employer who willfully refuses to
rehire, promote or otherwise restore an employee or former employee who has
been determined to be eligible for rehiring or promotion by a grievance
procedure, arbitration or hearing authorized by law, shall be subject to a
civil penalty in an amount equal to five times the amount of the employee’s
lost wages and work benefits.
(CBC 1985 12-13.3; Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 3)
12-14   PROTECTIVE CUSTODY.
12-14.1   Purpose.
   (A)   The General Laws authorize protective custody for incapacitated
persons (M.G.L. Chapter 111B, Section 8). Incapacitated persons include those
intoxicated individuals that are unconscious, in need of medical attention,
likely to suffer physical harm, or likely to cause physical harm. In an effort
to eliminate confusion, it is important to acknowledge that protective custody
is not the legal equivalent of arrest/institution of criminal charges. Although
detailed records of the event must be maintained, such records are not criminal
records and are not treated as criminal records.
   (B)   Furthermore, an alcohol-related arrest may occur simultaneously with
protective custody. Although arrest procedures run concurrently with protective
custody measures, they are separate and distinct. Therefore, a person arrested
for OUI (a criminal offense) has the right to bail and release. If, however,
such person is a danger to himself or herself as a result of intoxification,
then, despite the posting of bail, protective custody (i.e., not an arrest) may
be triggered and such incapacitated person will not be released until such
incapacitation dissolves and the person no longer poses a risk to himself or
herself or the community. The legislative intent of this Section is derived
from this risk, and the city seeks to protect incapacitated persons and the
community from the myriad harms that could result from incapacitation due to
intoxification by strictly employing the protective custody procedures
authorized by M.G.L. Chapter 111B. The legislative intent is effected by the
provisions of this Section which track the language of M.G.L. Chapter 111B,
Section 8.
(CBC 1985 12-14.1; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACILITY. Any public or private place, or portion thereof, providing
services especially designed for the detoxification of intoxicated persons or
alcoholics (M.G.L. Chapter 111B, Section 3).
   INCAPACITATED. The condition of an intoxicated person who, by reason of the
consumption of intoxicating liquor is:
      (1)   Unconscious;
      (2)   In need of medical attention;
      (3)   Likely to suffer or cause physical harm or damage property; or
      (4)   Disorderly (M.G.L. Chapter 111B, Section 3).
(CBC 1985 12-14.2; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.3   Protective Custody.
   (A)   Any person who is incapacitated shall be assisted by Police Officer
with or without such person’s consent to his or her residence, to a facility or
to a Police Station. To determine, for purposes of these Sections only, whether
or not such person is intoxicated, the Police Officer may request the person to
submit to reasonable tests of coordination, coherency of speech and breath.
   (B)   Any person assisted by a Police Officer to a Police Station shall have
the right, and be informed in writing of said right, to request and be
administered a breathalyzer test. Any person who is administered a breathalyzer
test shall be presumed intoxicated if evidence from said test indicates that
the percentage of alcohol in his or her blood is ten one hundredths (0.10) or
more and shall be placed in protective custody at a Police Station or
transferred to a facility. Any person who is administered a breathalyzer test,
under this Section, shall be presumed not to be intoxicated if evidence from
said test indicates that the percentage of alcohol in his or her blood is five
one hundredths (0.05) or less and shall be released from custody forthwith. If
any person who is administered a breathalyzer test, under this Section, and
evidence from said test indicates that the percentage of alcohol in his or her
blood is more than five one hundredths (0.05) and is less than ten one
hundredths (0.10) there shall be no presumption made based solely on the
breathalyzer test. In such instance, a reasonable test of coordination or
speech coherency must be administered to determine if said person is
intoxicated. Only when such test of coordination or speech coherency indicates
said person is intoxicated shall he or she be placed in protective custody at a
Police Station or transferred to a facility.
   (C)   Any person presumed intoxicated and to be held in protective custody
at a Police Station shall, immediately after such presumption, have the right
and be informed of said right to make one phone call at his or her own expense
and on his or her own behalf. Any person assisted by a Police Officer to a
facility under these Sections shall have the right to make one phone call at
his or her own expense on his or her own behalf and shall be informed forthwith
upon arriving at the facility of said right. The parent or guardian of any
person, under the age of 18, to be held in protective custody at a Police
Station shall be notified forthwith upon his or her arrival at said station or
as soon as possible thereafter.
   (D)   If any incapacitated person is assisted to a Police Station, the
Officer in charge, or his or her designee, shall notify forthwith the nearest
facility that the person is being held in protective custody. If suitable
treatment services are available at a facility, the commonwealth’s Department
of Public Health, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 111B, shall thereupon
arrange for the transportation of the person to the facility in accordance with
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 111B, Section 7.
   (E)   No person assisted to a Police Station pursuant to these Sections
shall be held in protective custody against his or her will; provided, however,
that if suitable treatment at a facility is not available, an incapacitated
person may be held in protective custody at a Police Station until he or she is
no longer incapacitated or for a period of not longer than 12 hours, whichever
is shorter.
   (F)   A Police Officer acting in accordance with the provisions of these
Sections and in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 111B may use
such force as is reasonably necessary to carry out his or her authorized
responsibilities. If the Police Officer reasonably believes that his or her
safety or the safety of other persons present so requires, he or she may search
such person and his or her immediate surroundings, but only to the extent
necessary to discover and seize any dangerous weapons which may on that
occasion be used against the Officer or other person present; provided,
however, that if such person is held in protective custody at a Police Station
all valuables and all articles which may pose a danger to such person or to
others may be taken from him or her for safekeeping and if so taken shall be
inventoried.
   (G)   A person assisted to a facility or held in protective custody by the
Police pursuant to the provisions of these Sections and M.G.L. Chapter 111B,
Section 8, shall not be considered to have been arrested or to have been
charged with any crime. An entry of custody shall be made indicating the date,
time, place of custody, the name of the assisting Officer, the name of the
Officer in charge, whether the person held in custody exercised his or her
right to make a phone call, whether the person held in custody exercised his or
her right to take a breathalyzer test, and the results of the breathalyzer test
if taken, which entry shall not be treated for any purposes, as an arrest or
criminal record.
(CBC 1985 12-14.3; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.4   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 12-14.4; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.5   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these
Sections.
(CBC 1985 12-14.5; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.6   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 12-14.6; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-14.7   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately upon passage
and all provisions shall be enforced immediately.
(CBC 1985 12-14.7; Ord. 2005 c. 3)
12-15   CONCUSSIONS.
12-15.1   Concussion Prevention.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section shall be applicable to any elementary,
middle or secondary school in the city, public or private, and any community
center, public or private, which organizes and sponsors extracurricular
athletic activities including games and practices for its student athlete(s).
STUDENT ATHLETE shall mean a student who prepares for or participates in an
extracurricular athletic activity. EXTRACURRICULAR ATHLETIC ACTIVITY shall have
the same meaning as that provided for in the Department of Public Health
Regulations, 105 CMR 201.005; provided however, that the provisions of this
Section shall also be applicable to any community center that organizes and
sponsors noninterscholastic youth sports programs for athletic competition or
instruction for participants under the age of 18.
   (B)   All schools and community centers shall ensure that all coaches,
certified athletic trainers, trainers, volunteers, school and team physicians,
school nurses and athletic directors annually complete a head injury training
program approved by the Department of Public Health as found on the
Department’s website. Schools and community centers may, in addition to on-line
training programs approved by the Department, participate in live training
programs that provide training in the recognition, management, response and
prevention of concussions and other sports-related head injuries.
(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)
12-15.2   Concussion Management.
   (A)   A student athlete who sustains a head injury or suspected concussion,
or exhibits signs and symptoms of a concussion, or loses consciousness even
briefly, shall be removed from play by the student athlete’s coach or certified
athletic trainer as set forth in 105 CMR 201.010. The coach shall notify the
parent or legal guardian of the student athlete as set forth in 105 CMR
201.010.
   (B)   A student athlete who has been removed from play may not return to
play until the student athlete receives appropriate medical clearance as set
forth in 105 CMR 201.011.
(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)
12-15.3   Permitting Requirements.
   (A)   Before the first use of a facility owned by the city, any independent
athletic organization must certify on a form approved by the Boston Parks and
Recreation Department or the Boston Center for Youth and Families that such
organization requires training programs and has policies in place for its
coaches, athletes, referees and athletic trainers including, but not limited
to, the nature and risk of concussions and other sports-related head injuries;
the prevention and management of such injuries; and the criteria for removal
from and return to physical participation. The independent athletic
organization shall be responsible for verifying that its coaches, athletes,
referees and athletic trainers have received the required training and
information and such organization shall be responsible for maintenance of such
records.
   (B)   INDEPENDENT ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION shall mean a youth sports program
organized for athletic competition or instruction for participants under the
age of 18.
(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)
12-15.4   College Athlete Head Injury Gameday Safety Protocol.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATHLETIC PROGRAM. An intercollegiate athletic program at any institution
of higher education within the meaning of division (B) below.
      ATHLETIC SCHOLARSHIP. Financial aid provided to a college athlete by an
institution of higher education that is provided in exchange for, but not
exclusively in exchange for, that college athlete’s participation in that
institution of higher education’s athletic program.
      COLLEGE ATHLETE. Any college student who participates in an
intercollegiate athletic program of an institution of higher education.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Any four-year college or university that
maintains an intercollegiate athletic program.
      INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC EVENT. Any game, match, meet, race or other
event during which college athletes from athletic programs of more than one
institution of higher education compete against each other.
      NCAA. National Collegiate Athletic Association.
   (B)   Concussion Defined.
      (1)   For purposes of these Sections, CONCUSSION means a complex
pathophysiological process affecting the brain induced by biomechanical forces.
Several common features that incorporate clinical, pathologic and biomechanical
injury constructs that may be utilized in defining the nature of a concussive
head injury include:
         (a)   CONCUSSION may be caused either by a direct blow to the head,
face, neck or elsewhere on the body with an “impulsive” force transmitted to
the head;
         (b)   CONCUSSION typically results in the rapid onset of transient
impairment of neurologic function that resolves spontaneously. However, in some
cases, symptoms and signs may evolve over a number of minutes to hours;
         (c)   CONCUSSION may result in neuropathological changes, but the
acute clinical symptoms largely reflect a functional disturbance rather than a
structural injury and, as such, no abnormality is seen on standard structural
neuroimaging studies; and
         (d)   Concussion results in a graded set of clinical symptoms that may
or may not involve loss of consciousness. Resolution of the clinical and
cognitive symptoms typically follows a sequential course; however, it is
important to note that, in some percentage of cases, postconcussive symptoms
may be prolonged.
      (2)   Potential concussion signs (observable):
         (a)   Any loss of consciousness;
         (b)   Slow to get up following a hit to the head (“hit to the head”
may include secondary contact with the playing surface);
         (c)   Motor coordination/balance problems (stumbles, trips/falls,
slow/labored movement);
         (d)   Blank or vacant look;
         (e)   Disorientation (e.g., unsure of where he or she is on the field
or location of bench);
         (f)   Clutching of head after contact; and
         (g)   Visible facial injury in combination with any of the above.
      (3)   Potential concussion symptoms (athlete reported, following direct
or indirect contact):
         (a)   Headache;
         (b)   Dizziness;
         (c)   Balance or coordination difficulties;
         (d)   Nausea;
         (e)   Amnesia for the circumstances surrounding the injury (i.e.,
retrograde/anterograde amnesia);
         (f)   Cognitive slowness;
         (g)   Light/sound sensitivity;
         (h)   Disorientation;
         (i)   Visual disturbance; and
         (j)   Tinnitus.
   (C)   Scope. These Sections shall apply to any athletic program, regardless
of domicile, participating in any intercollegiate athletic event that is:
      (1)   Sanctioned by the NCAA; and
      (2)   Located in any part of the city.
   (D)   Gameday safety protocol.
      (1)   An athletic program shall develop and write an Emergency Medical
Action Plan (the “Plan”) for all practice, training and game venues. The
medical staff of the athletic program shall discuss, practice and review the
Plan regularly.
      (2)   If a college athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic
event becomes unconscious, the college athlete shall not return to the event
during which the college athlete became unconscious. The college athlete shall
not participate in any future practices, training sessions or intercollegiate
athletic events in Boston until the college athlete receives written
authorization for such participation from a licensed physician, or from another
appropriately trained or licensed health care professional as determined by the
Boston Public Health Commissioner. The college athlete must provide such
authorization to his or her athletic program’s athletic director.
      (3)   If a college athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic
event suffers a concussion as diagnosed by a medical professional, or is
suspected to have suffered a concussion, the college athlete shall not return
to the event during which the concussion or suspected concussion occurred. The
college athlete shall not participate in any future practices, training
sessions or intercollegiate athletic events in Boston until the college athlete
receives written authorization for such participation from a licensed
physician, or from another appropriately trained or licensed health care
professional as determined by the Boston Public Health Commissioner. The
college athlete must provide such authorization to his or her athletic
program’s athletic director.
   (E)   Additional requirement for football, ice hockey and men’s lacrosse.
      (1)   This Section shall apply exclusively to athletic programs that
participate in NCAA Division I athletics.
      (2)   For an intercollegiate athletic event involving the sports of
football, ice hockey and men’s lacrosse.
         (a)   The designated host athletic program shall provide an on-site
neurotrauma consultant at the event venue. The neurotrauma consultant shall be
a physician who is board certified or board eligible in neurology, neurological
surgery, emergency medicine, physical medicine and rehabilitation, or any
primary care CAQ sports medicine certified physician that has documented
competence and experience in the treatment of acute head injuries. The
neurotrauma consultant shall be present at the level of the event’s playing
surface, and with full access to the benches and/or sidelines of any
participating athletic program. The neurotrauma consultant shall be focused on
identifying symptoms of concussion and mechanisms of injury that warrant
concussion evaluation, working in consultation with medical staff of the
athletic programs to implement concussion evaluations and observing exams of
the head, neck and spine performed by medical staff. In the event a college
athlete suffers or is suspected to have suffered an injury to the head, neck or
spine, the neurotrauma consultant shall work with the athletic program’s
medical staff in the diagnosis and care of the injury.
         (b)   If the injured college athlete’s athletic program has medical
staff present at the event venue, ultimate injury diagnosis remains exclusively
within the professional judgment of the medical staff of the athletic program
of the injured college athlete.
         (c)   In the event there is no designated host athletic program for an
intercollegiate athletic event, the participating athletic programs shall
jointly provide the on-site neurotrauma consultant.
      (3)   The provisions of this Section shall take effect on July 1, 2015.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Boston Public Health Commission, or its designee(s),
shall have the authority to enforce these Sections, and to promulgate
regulations in accordance therewith. Anyone who desires to register a complaint
of noncompliance under these Sections may do so by contacting the Boston Public
Health Commission, or its designee(s).
(CBC 1985 12-15.4; Ord. 2014 c. 13 §§ 1-6)
12-16   SAFE SHARPS DISPOSAL PROGRAM.
12-16.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the public and of the environment by providing for the safe and orderly
collection and disposal of sharps by requiring retailers of sharps to take back
sharps at the end of life at no additional cost to the consumer at the time of
return. The intent of this Section is to provide consumers with more convenient
ways to return and ensure the safe and environmentally sound disposal of
individual-use sharps.
(CBC 1985 12-16.1; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-16.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Boston Public Health Commission.
   DEPARTMENT. The Inspectional Services Department for the city.
   INDIVIDUAL-USE SHARPS. All non-commercially and non-institutionally
generated sharps, as defined in this Section, derived from individual use.
   PHARMACY. A facility under the direction or supervision of a registered
pharmacist which is authorized to dispense controlled substances. The term
PHARMACY shall not include institutional pharmacies or pharmacy departments or
any independent community pharmacies with fewer than four retail locations
within the city.
   PROPER DISPOSAL. The lawful disposal of individual-use sharps waste in
compliance with the applicable provisions of commonwealth law and the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 400 and 410.
   SHARPS. Hypodermic needles, pen needles, intravenous needles, lancets and
other devices that are used to penetrate the skin for the delivery of drugs to
humans or animals that have been used or are not in their original, intact and
sealed packaging and that result from personal use or from use on pets.
(CBC 1985 12-16.2; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-16.3   Safe Sharps Disposal Program for Pharmacies.
   (A)   All pharmacies, as defined in this Section, shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Establish a collection system to provide convenient, ongoing
collection services to all persons seeking to dispose of unwanted sharps which
shall include collection kiosks, or other safe and secure means of collection
on the site of every pharmacy location within the city. The collection kiosks
or other means of collection must be on site in easily accessible and in
visible locations to patrons of the pharmacy. The collection system may include
drive-up kiosks or other creative solutions for collection immediately adjacent
to the site. For each pharmacy location fully enclosed in another retail
entity, the kiosk may be substituted for a mail back program, at no cost to the
consumer, or other alternative collection system at that location. Upon
approval and installation, evidence showing that the collection site has been
implemented shall be submitted to the Department and the Commission;
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, a pharmacy chain, or multiple pharmacy
chains working in concert, may present an alternative proposal for approval by
the Department in consultation with the Commission. This alternative proposal
must yield a number of collections kiosks equal to the number of retail
pharmacies the proposing chain or chains have located within the city that are
not located within another retail entity. For each pharmacy location fully
enclosed in another retail entity, the kiosk may be substituted for a mail back
program, at no cost to the consumer, or other alternative collection system at
that location. Collection sites may be either on the site of pharmacies or on
the property of any partnering entity that owns or controls physical property
in the city. The collection system may include drive up kiosks or other
creative solutions for collection immediately adjacent to the site. Such
proposals must include the exact proposed locations of each collection site and
the contact information for the entity responsible for collection and disposal,
and the same shall be included on individual kiosks. Such alternative proposals
should, to the greatest extent possible, result in even geographic distribution
of sites and address deficiencies in the existing sharps collection
infrastructure. In establishing standards for approving collection site
locations, the Department and Commission must consult with community
representatives engaged in advocacy related to neighborhood quality of life.
Upon approval and installation of collection sites described by the alternative
proposal, evidence showing that the collection sites have been implemented
shall be submitted to the Department and the Commission;
      (3)   Establish adequate provisions for the security of sharps throughout
the collection process and the safety of any person involved in monitoring,
staffing or servicing the collection sites;
      (4)   Conduct public outreach and education about the sharps collection
system, including, but not limited to, providing information to patrons, at the
time of purchase or receiving of sharps, regarding the proper disposal of the
sharps that is informed by consultation with community representatives engaged
in quality of life advocacy which may be facilitated by the Department and
Commission upon request;
      (5)   All pharmacies, or groups of pharmacies working in concert, must
report to the Department:
         (a)   Information regarding any vendors engaged in efforts to comply
with this Section, including the business name, and whether the business is a
minority owned business enterprise; women owned business enterprise; veteran
owned business enterprise; service-disable veteran owned business enterprise;
disability owned business enterprise; lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender
owned enterprise; or an independent business with its principal office
physically located in the city;
         (b)   On an annual basis, data on sharps collected through pharmacy-
created collection sites in a form and manner specified by the Department; and
         (c)   Any other information or documents required by the Department.
      (6)   Comply with all applicable commonwealth and federal requirements.
   (B)   No point-of-sale or point-of-collection, processing fees or other
sharps cost increases may be charged to the individual consumers to recoup
program costs.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section shall be interpreted and applied at all
times consistently with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 94C, Section 27A; all
provisions of any relevant general or special act; and 105 CMR 480.00, Minimum
Requirements for the Management of Medical or Biological Waste (Commonwealth
Sanitary Code Chapter VIII).
   (D)   Institutions and entities not covered by this Section are encouraged
to establish sharps collection sites. Nothing in this Section shall be read to
prevent institutions not covered by this Section from establishing sharps
collection sites provided that they comply with applicable commonwealth and
federal law.
(CBC 1985 12-16.3; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-16.4   Container and Signage Requirements.
   Collection and transfer containers must meet the requirements of the federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Federal Department of
Transportation and be marked with the international biohazard symbol.
(CBC 1985 12-16.4; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-16.5   Implementation and Enforcement.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section shall become effective one year from
the date of its adoption.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services, or designee, shall have
jurisdiction and authority to enforce the provisions of this Section and may
provide additional guidance to regulated entities.
   (B)   Any pharmacy found to be in violation of any provision of this
Section, or who fails to comply with any of its requirements, shall be punished
by a fine of $300. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section may be enforced in accordance with the
non-criminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D; provided
that this Section shall not preclude the city from proceeding to restrain a
violation by injunction.
(CBC 1985 12-16.5; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-16.6   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 12-16.6; Ord. 2020 c. 4 § 1)
12-17   OFFICE OF POLICE ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY.
12-17.1   Purpose.
   This Section is to establish an Office of Police Accountability and
Transparency in the city, that is independent of the Boston Police Department,
to investigate complaints of Police misconduct, ensure that the Boston Police
Department’s internal affairs review process is fair and thorough and review
Boston Police Department’s existing and proposed policies and procedures. The
purpose of the OPAT is to provide a single point of entry for individuals with
concerns or complaints related to the Boston Police Department and its Officers
and sworn personnel to be heard and responded to, and to provide the staffing
and legal authority necessary to support the work of the OPAT and its related
advisory boards and panels to undertake independent investigation and review of
policing in Boston.
(CBC 1985 12-17.1; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIPOC. Individuals and communities identifying as Black, Indigenous and
People of Color.
   BPD. The Boston Police Department.
   COMMISSIONER. Any of the three members of the OPAT Commission.
   CRB. The member(s), individually and collectively, of the city’s Civilian
Review Board established by this Section.
   EXECUTIVE ADMINISTRATION. The division of the OPAT comprised of employees
responsible for carrying out the work and policy directives of the OPAT.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The person appointed to oversee the Executive
Administration of the OPAT, who shall have the powers of a Department head and
shall also serve as a member of the OPAT Commission.
   FIO. Field investigation and observation data collected by the BPD during a
stop and frisk, a consensual encounter with an individual or an observation of
an individual for intelligence purposes.
   IAOP. The member(s), individually and collectively, of the city’s Internal
Affairs Oversight Panel established by this Section.
   INTERNAL AFFAIRS. The division within BPD responsible for conducting
internal investigations of Officer conduct.
   OPAT. Refers collectively to the city Office established by this Section
encompassing the OPAT Commission, Executive Administration, Civilian Review
Board and the Internal Affairs Oversight Panel.
   OPAT COMMISSION. The Office of Police Accountability and Transparency
Commission established by this Section.
   OPAT STAFF. The personnel, individually and collectively, of the Executive
Administration.
   ORDINANCE. This Section establishing the city Office of Police
Accountability and Transparency.
   POLICE COMMISSIONER. The Police Commissioner in charge of the Boston Police
Department.
(CBC 1985 12-17.2; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.3   Establishment of OPAT Commission.
   There shall be in the city a Commission known as the Office of Police
Accountability and Transparency Commission, hereinafter referred to as the OPAT
Commission. The OPAT Commission shall be comprised of three Commissioners, each
appointed by the Mayor as follows: one Commissioner shall be the person
appointed by the Mayor as the Executive Director as set forth in Subsection 12-
17.5; one Commissioner shall be the person appointed by the Mayor as the Chair
of the Civilian Review Board as set forth in Subsection 12-17.8; and one
Commissioner shall be the person appointed by the Mayor as the Chair of the
Internal Affairs Oversight Panel as set forth in Subsection 12-17.12. The
Commissioners shall each have knowledge and expertise relevant to aspects of
Police reform or accountability, as well as demonstrated knowledge of how
demographic groups are impacted by use of force and field investigation. The
Commissioner who is the Executive Director shall serve during their appointment
to that role and the remaining Commissioners shall serve during their
appointments as Chairs of the CRB or IAOP. The Mayor shall appoint annually a
Commissioner as the Chairperson of the Commission. The Commissioners shall be
residents of Boston. The Commissioners shall be classified as special municipal
employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A. The Commissioners shall
serve without compensation for their role on the Commission. Nothing in this
Subsection shall preclude any Commissioner from being compensated for their
role as Executive Director of the OPAT, or as a member of the CRB or IAOP.
(CBC 1985 12-17.3; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.4   Powers and Duties of the Commission.
   The OPAT Commission shall have the power to:
   (A)   Create rules, regulations or procedures necessary to guide the conduct
of investigations and making of findings and recommendations by the OPAT Staff,
in keeping with all due process rights, applicable laws and statutes;
   (B)   By a two-thirds vote, subpoena witnesses and compel their testimony
under oath, including, but not limited to, filing contempt proceedings with the
Superior Court, compelling the discovery and production of documents, books,
papers or evidence related to any matter under investigation by OPAT, and
requiring the attendance during the examination of documentary material of any
person having knowledge of the documentary material and taking testimony under
oath or acknowledgment in respect of any such documentary material;
   (C)   Resolve differences that might arise between CRB and IAOP;
   (D)   In addition to business meetings necessary to fulfill other
responsibilities of the OPAT Commission, it shall convene at minimum four
community meetings per year across the Boston neighborhoods for the purpose of
informing and updating the community about the work of the OPAT, and being
informed by the community on matters of Police transparency, BPD policies and
procedures, and other matters of policing in Boston;
      (1)   At such meetings, the OPAT Commission shall provide a public report
on OPAT activities for the quarter, without disclosing personally identifiable
information, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The disposition of cases referred by OPAT to the CRB and IAOP;
         (b)   The disposition of CRB cases in which the CRB referred the
matter to the Police Commissioner; what discipline, if any, was recommended by
the CRB; and what discipline, if any, was implemented by the Police
Commissioner;
         (c)   The number of complaints received, the type of misconduct
alleged in those complaints and the investigatory status of those complaints;
         (d)   The race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation (if known) and
age of the complainants;
         (e)   Any practices or policy investigations ongoing or completed, as
well as any policy recommendations made pursuant to OPAT’s authority to
investigate practices or patterns of behavior and BPD policies; and
         (f)   Efforts to promote OPAT’s function, availability and processes
to the public.
      (2)   The meetings shall include a public comment period, during which
time members of the public may address the OPAT Commission regarding any issue
relevant to OPAT’s jurisdiction.
      (3)   The minutes of each public meeting will be posted online within a
reasonable time following such meeting.
   (E)   The OPAT Commission shall meet with members of the Boston City Council
and the Mayor on a semi-annual basis, or more frequently at the request of the
OPAT Commission, Boston City Council or the Mayor, to discuss all topics
relevant to the jurisdiction of the OPAT. The minutes of each meeting will be
posted online within a reasonable time following such meeting;
   (F)   Adopt rules and regulations consistent with the laws of the
commonwealth to carry out the powers and duties of the OPAT Commission and
Executive Administration; and
   (G)   Act in any other manner consistent with this Section.
(CBC 1985 12-17.4; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.5   Executive Administration.
   (A)   There shall be within the OPAT Commission an administrative arm, to be
known as the “Executive Administration” or “OPAT Staff”, under the direction of
an Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the Mayor,
which appointment shall function as an appointment to the Commission for the
duration of their employment as the Executive Director. The Executive Director
should be a member of the Massachusetts Bar, but shall not practice law while
serving their term. The Executive Director should have managerial experience
and must reside in the city for their entire term.
   (B)   The Executive Administration shall house staff necessary to carry out
and support the work and purposes of the OPAT, including the Executive
Director, a Deputy Director and those technology professionals, investigators,
analysts, law enforcement professionals, communications staff, interpretative
services specialists, community liaisons and/or mediation professionals deemed
necessary by the Executive Director and Commission. OPAT Staff shall perform
all investigations required for the work of the CRB and IAOP.
   (C)   No OPAT Staff shall be current members or employees of any law
enforcement agency. To execute OPAT’s substantive responsibilities, OPAT Staff
will be employed as municipal employees.
(CBC 1985 12-17.5; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.6   Powers and Duties of the Executive Administration and Executive
Director.
   (A)   The Executive Director shall have the powers of a Department head,
except for those powers explicitly conveyed to the OPAT Commission by this
Section, and shall be responsible for carrying out the policies and decisions
of the Commission.
   (B)   The OPAT Staff, under the direction of the Executive Director, shall
have the power and duty to:
      (1)   Support and carry out the overall operations of the OPAT;
      (2)   Provide all necessary staff support to the CRB and IAOP to support
and facilitate the work of each;
      (3)   Receive, review, investigate and make recommendations regarding
civilian complaints concerning BPD Officer conduct;
      (4)   Receive, review, investigate and make recommendations regarding
completed Internal Affairs Division investigations concerning BPD Officer
conduct;
      (5)   Create racial equity assessment tools to periodically evaluate
current and proposed BPD policies and procedures;
      (6)   In coordination with the CRB, review and make recommendations to
revise or modify existing and proposed BPD policies and procedures;
      (7)   In coordination with the CRB, review, investigate and make
recommendations with regard to allegations of disparate treatment by BPD in
recruiting, hiring, promotion, discipline and termination of members of BPD;
      (8)   In coordination with the CRB, review instances where a BIPOC
Officer is disciplined or terminated;
      (9)   In coordination with the CRB, evaluate alternatives to the civil
service examination process;
      (10)   In coordination with the IAOP, review policies and procedures
relevant to the integrity of the complaint and internal affairs process;
      (11)   Review and analyze FIO data, to identify significant trends,
including racial disparities, and areas of concern or success within BPD
practices, and publish any findings on a semi-annual basis;
      (12)   Review and analyze BPD statistics, as listed in Subsection 12-
17.16, to identify significant trends, including racial disparities, and areas
of concern or success within BPD practices, and publish any findings on a semi-
annual basis;
      (13)   Track and report on the progress of BPD reform goals;
      (14)   Coordinate with BPD staff to review and provide recommendations
related to the selection and implementation of grants;
      (15)   Conduct independent investigations into any matter or issue
related to OPAT’s mission;
      (16)   Forward any resulting recommendations to the Police Commissioner
for review;
      (17)   Issue publications and results of investigations, including
facilitating reporting of information and recommendations from the CRB and
IAOP; and
      (18)   Create and maintain a publicly available website to publish
findings and reports of the Executive Administration, CRB and IAOP, and to
communicate information related to Police transparency and accountability to
the public.
   (C)   The foregoing powers and duties of the OPAT Staff may be exercised in
support of the CRB and IAOP as appropriate, consistent with any regulations or
procedures promulgated by the OPAT Commission.
(CBC 1985 12-17.6; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.7   OPAT Staff Receipt, Investigation and Review of Complaints.
   OPAT Staff will receive and review complaints and, at the behest of CRB or
IAOP, where such complaints present matters appropriate for investigation or
for review of Internal Affairs decisions, OPAT Staff will perform the
investigatory work necessary for the CRB and the IAOP to resolve civilian
complaint and internal affairs issues, respectively. As part of this
responsibility, OPAT Staff will draft reports summarizing the findings of its
investigations and present its findings to the requesting unit. OPAT Staff will
conduct such intake, review, investigation and recommendation as required by
this Subsection and by procedures and regulations promulgated by the OPAT
Commission.
   (A)   Receiving complaints. 
      (1)   OPAT Staff shall maintain a system for receiving all complaints
concerning the conduct of BPD Officers and employees, the results of BPD
Internal Affairs investigations or other issues related to the BPD. OPAT shall
accept complaints by mail and in-person at its Office, and where feasible shall
designate other locations, such as libraries and youth centers, where
complaints may be filed, and shall also create a process for electronic
submission of complaints via a secure online portal. OPAT Staff shall ensure
that the complaint process is consistent with the City’s Language and
Communications Access Ordinance and any city language access plan.
      (2)   OPAT Staff will record the date that each complaint was received,
assign an identifying case number, confirm receipt of the complaint to the
complainant and provide a copy of the complaint to the Police Commissioner, the
Chief of the Bureau of Professional Standards at BPD and the BPD Legal Advisor.
OPAT Staff may redact the complaint and any accompanying documents to prevent
the unauthorized release of privileged or protected information pursuant to
M.G.L.
   (B)   Complaint screening and assignment. 
      (1)   OPAT Staff shall review and classify each complaint and recommend
one of the following outcomes:
         (a)   Dismissal;
         (b)   Referral for mediation;
         (c)   Out of scope designation;
         (d)   Referral to CRB; or
         (e)   Referral to IAOP.
      (2)   OPAT Staff shall notify the complainant should the complaint be
recommended for dismissal or out of scope designation, including reasons why
and information about alternative resources. The receipt shall be delivered in
the language in which the initial complaint was written.
      (3)   Where a complainant or the BPD Police-Community Mediation Program
declines mediation, or such mediation fails to provide a mediated solution,
OPAT Staff will recommend one of the remaining outcomes. If OPAT Staff
recommend a complaint for referral to either the CRB or IAOP, such complaint
will be promptly referred to the said body, subject to the CRB or IAOP
disagreeing that the complaint is appropriate for its review or investigation.
OPAT Staff shall provide the OPAT Commission with a record of all
recommendations for dismissal or an out of scope designation, and the OPAT
Commission may direct an alternate designation for any such complaint.
   (C)   Investigation. Where a complaint is referred to the CRB or IAOP for
review, OPAT Staff shall assemble all materials and perform the investigatory
work necessary for such review. OPAT Staff shall draft reports summarizing
investigatory findings and present its findings to the CRB or IAOP. Subject to
any regulations or policies of the OPAT Commission, OPAT Staff may provide such
information to the CRB and IAOP along with the initial referral of a complaint,
but subject to either body’s ability to seek additional clarification and
investigation.
      (1)   OPAT Staff shall have the power to investigate, present findings
and recommend action regarding complaints by members of the public against
uniformed and sworn personnel of the BPD that allege misconduct. OPAT Staff
will perform the necessary investigative functions to resolve concerns and
complaints about matters related to civilian concerns and complaints for the
CRB and Boston Police internal affairs for the IAOP.
      (2)   OPAT Staff may request that the OPAT Commission issue a subpoena
for any testimony or records, documents, papers, books or other evidence
related to any matter under investigation, where the OPAT Staff determines that
it is otherwise unable to obtain such information necessary to an
investigation.
      (3)   OPAT Staff shall have access to all materials contained in the
completed internal affairs files subject to review and any documents appended
to civilian complaints, except those documents protected from release by
statute.
      (4)   All investigative materials and reports assembled by OPAT Staff
shall be treated by the OPAT Staff as confidential and available only to OPAT
Staff subject only to provisions for information sharing established by
regulation of the OPAT Commission and the commonwealth’s Public Records Law,
being M.G.L. Chapter 66, Section 6A, and Chapter 4, Section 7, Clause 26.
   (D)   Report on findings. Upon concluding its investigation, OPAT will draft
a report summarizing the findings of its investigation. OPAT will present its
proposed findings to the CRB following the conclusion of its investigation of
civilian complaints and the IAOP following the conclusion of its investigation
of internal affairs cases.
   (E)   Communication of findings. Upon the conclusion of any complaint
investigation or review of an Internal Affairs investigation, the OPAT shall
communicate all findings or recommendations of the OPAT, CRB or IAOP to the
Police Commissioner.
   (F)   Limitations on investigatory power. No OPAT investigation shall
interfere with any criminal investigation. Where an investigation by OPAT Staff
may interfere with a criminal investigation, OPAT will seek to avoid such
interference by, among other things, staying its investigation until such time
as it will not interfere with other authorities or courts with jurisdiction
over the matter. Any person appearing before the Commission or OPAT Staff who
avails themselves of constitutional guarantees, or any other right provided by
law or by a collective bargaining agreement, shall not be punished in any way
for availing themselves of such rights.
   (G)   Timeline for concluding investigations. OPAT Staff shall establish a
target timeline for OPAT’s review of complaints, including those reviewed in
cooperation with the CRB or IAOP, and shall make the timeline status of each
case available online. If OPAT is unable to adhere to its timeline for review,
the Executive Director must notify the individuals involved in the complaint.
(CBC 1985 12-17.7; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.8   Civilian Review Board.
   (A)   There shall be within the OPAT a Board, to be known as the “Civilian
Review Board” or “CRB,” charged with reviewing and investigating certain
complaints against the Boston Police Department and its employees. The CRB will
consist of nine members who shall be residents of Boston. The Mayor will
appoint members based on recommendations from the Boston City Council and
Boston community. The Mayor will appoint three members from three nominees per
seat submitted by the Boston City Council. The Mayor will appoint six members
from a pool of applicants recommended by civil rights advocacy groups, youth
organizations, neighborhood associations and those with past experience and
knowledge of law enforcement. At least one member of the Board shall be a youth
delegate, aged 18 to 21, to represent the voices and lived experiences of young
people. Board members must not be current members of law enforcement. The Mayor
shall annually designate one member of the CRB to serve as Chair, which
designation shall serve as an appointment to the OPAT Commission. The Chair
shall have knowledge and expertise relevant to aspects of Police reform or
accountability, as well as demonstrated knowledge of how demographic groups are
impacted by use of force and field investigation. No person shall be designated
as Chair for more than two years consecutively.
   (B)   CRB members shall each serve a term of three years; provided, however,
that of the members first appointed, three shall be appointed for a term of one
year, three shall be appointed to a term of two years and three shall be
appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, the Mayor shall appoint each
successor for a term of three years. Any vacancy occurring otherwise than by
the expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as the position was originally filled. CRB members shall not serve more
than two consecutive three-year terms.
   (C)   Board members may be removed from Office by the Mayor prior to the
normal expiration of their term upon a finding by the Boston City Council and
Mayor of consistent failures to perform Board member duties or acting in
contravention of the Board’s purposes.
   (D)   Each member will be paid $100 per hour for their service, not to
exceed $50,000 per year. Members of the CRB are hereby designated special
municipal employees.
(CBC 1985 12-17.8; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.9   Powers and Duties of Civilian Review Board.
   The Civilian Review Board shall have the power and duty to:
   (A)   Conduct an independent inquiry or investigation into, and make
determinations regarding, complaints made against the Boston Police Department,
as set forth in Subsection 12-17.10 below, as appropriate for investigation and
review by the CRB;
   (B)   Review complaints or matters not within the scope of review of the
Internal Affairs Oversight Panel;
   (C)   At the CRB’s discretion, review any instances where a BIPOC Officer is
disciplined or terminated and forward any resulting recommendations to the
Police Commissioner for review;
   (D)   At the CRB’s discretion, review, investigate and make recommendations
with regard to allegations of disparate treatment by BPD in recruiting, hiring,
promotion, discipline and termination of members of BPD;
   (E)   Periodically evaluate alternative options and/or improvements to the
civil service examination process;
   (F)   Provide timely review of existing or proposed Boston Police Department
policies and procedures and provide recommendations for the revisions of those
policies and procedures to the Police Commissioner;
   (G)   Convene all Board members at least once per quarter, but more often at
the discretion of the Board;
   (H)   Access to all materials relative to the complaint, except those
documents protected from disclosure by law;
   (I)   Through OPAT Staff, investigate complaints and request information
from any person who may have knowledge of the circumstances of the complaint or
matter; and
   (J)   Make recommendations to the Police Commissioner regarding reviewed
complaints or other matters before the Board.
(CBC 1985 12-17.9; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.10   Complaints Appropriate for Review by the Civilian Review Board.
   The CRB will review and where appropriate conduct investigations into
complaints against sworn and civilian members of the Boston Police Department.
   (A)   Complaints appropriate for review include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   In-custody death or serious bodily injury while in Boston Police
Department custody;
      (2)   Use of force cases resulting in death or serious bodily injury;
      (3)   Allegations of excessive use of force;
      (4)   Allegations of unlawful arrest or stop;
      (5)   Allegations of perjury;
      (6)   Allegations of theft;
      (7)   Allegations of abuse of authority;
      (8)   Allegations that the conduct of an Officer violated BPD policies
regarding the respectful treatment of people, including the Bias Free Policing
Policy, and/or that was motivated by discriminatory intent, including, but not
limited to, slurs relating to race, expression, sexual orientation and
disability; and
      (9)   Any other complaint deemed appropriate for review by the Board or
referred to it for review by OPAT Staff.
   (B)   In no event shall the inquiry or investigation by the CRB interfere
with any criminal investigation by any authority with jurisdiction. Where an
investigation by the CRB may interfere with a criminal investigation, the CRB
will seek to avoid such interference by, among other things, staying its
investigation until such time as it will not interfere with other authorities
or courts with jurisdiction over the matter.
   (C)   In any case where there is no complainant able to initiate a
complaint, two-thirds of the nine members of the CRB may vote to authorize an
investigation or take such other action they deem appropriate.
   (D)   The CRB may in its discretion research and investigate issues related
to the general mission of increasing transparency, improving training and
enhancing accountability of policing in Boston and make recommendations
accordingly.
(CBC 1985 12-17.10; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.11   Civilian Review Board Process.
   (A)   Any person may file a complaint with OPAT Staff concerning the conduct
of sworn or civilian personnel of the BPD. Complaints must include a summary of
the allegation(s), the name if known of the individuals being complained of and
the contact information of the complainant.
   (B)   Matters that are the subject of complaints the CRB reviews under
Subsection 12-17.10 will be investigated through OPAT Staff in accordance with
the protocols, rules and procedures adopted by the OPAT Commission. The CRB can
adopt additional policies and procedures for its investigation and review
consistent with any regulation of the OPAT Commission. Any such rules and
procedures shall include the right to representation by counsel by the
complainant and any BPD personnel, and shall not purport to eliminate any
rights established by collective bargaining agreement or by law. Any such rules
and procedures shall also allow complainants to be provided an interpreter if
needed upon reasonable request or be accompanied by an interpreter of their
choice.
   (C)   Following the investigation and review of a complaint, the CRB will
deliberate and make one of the following findings:
      (1)   Sustained;
      (2)   Not Sustained;
      (3)   Exonerated;
      (4)   Unfounded; or
      (5)   Information inquiry or insufficient evidence to make a finding.
   (D)   Any findings of the CRB will be made by a two-thirds vote of the full
nine member Board and voting will be conducted in public. All findings will be
provided to the Mayor, the Boston City Council and the Police Commissioner
within a period of three business days from the date of the vote.
   (E)   If the CRB makes a sustained finding, the Board shall also make
disciplinary recommendations based on the Board’s findings of fact and
consistent with a matrix and guidelines. The discipline matrix and guidelines
shall act as safeguards to ensure the consistent application of discipline and
should include aggravating and mitigating factors. The discipline matrix and
guidelines should be developed by the Police Commissioner. Should the Police
Commissioner choose not to implement the disciplinary action recommended by the
CRB, the Police Commissioner shall notify the CRB of the implemented
disciplinary action and detail the reasons the recommendation was not accepted.
   (F)   All determination outcomes must be published without modification or
approval of any city employee or other body.
   (G)   OPAT Staff will notify the complainant of the determination made by
the CRB. All notifications made to the complainant must be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   (H)   The CRB, consistent with any rules or regulations of the OPAT
Commission, shall in conjunction with OPAT Staff establish a target timeline
for the CRB’s review of complaints and shall publicize the timeline status of
each case. If the CRB is unable to adhere to the timeline for review set forth
above, OPAT Staff shall provide timely notification of that fact to the
individuals involved in the complaint.
(CBC 1985 12-17.11; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.12   Internal Affairs Oversight Panel.
   (A)   There shall be within the OPAT a Board known as the “Internal Affairs
Oversight Panel”, or “IAOP”, charged with reviewing completed investigations of
the Boston Police Department’s Internal Affairs Division. The IAOP will consist
of five members appointed by the Mayor to terms of three years, not to exceed
two consecutive terms. Terms shall be staggered to ensure that at least two
members have 18 months of service. The Mayor will appoint members from a pool
of applicants, preferably licensed attorneys, with experience in civil rights
advocacy, youth advocacy and those with past experience and knowledge of law
enforcement. The Mayor will appoint two members from three nominees per seat
submitted by the Boston City Council. The current members of the IAOP
established by executive order shall be the initial members of the IAOP and
shall serve the remainder of their current terms, with vacancies to be filled
in accordance with this Section. Members of the IAOP must be residents of
Boston.
   (B)   The Mayor shall annually designate one member of the IAOP to serve as
Chair, which designation shall serve as an appointment to the OPAT Commission.
The Chair shall have knowledge and expertise relevant to aspects of Police
reform or accountability, as well as demonstrated knowledge of how demographic
groups are impacted by use of force and field investigation. No person shall be
designated as Chair for more than two years consecutively.
   (C)   Panel members may be removed from Office by the Mayor prior to the
normal expiration of their term upon a finding by the Boston City Council and
Mayor of consistent failures to perform Panel member duties or acting in
contravention of the Panel’s purposes.
   (D)   Each member will be paid $100 per hour for their service, not to
exceed $50,000 per year. Members of the IAOP are hereby designated special
municipal employees.
(CBC 1985 12-17.12; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.13   Powers and Duties of Internal Affairs Oversight Panel.
   The IAOP will have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Provide external oversight of Boston Police internal affairs
investigations for thoroughness and fairness;
   (B)   Periodically review policies and procedures and provide a report to
the Mayor and the Police Commissioner on the integrity of the complaint and
internal affairs process;
   (C)   Convene all IAOP members at least once per quarter, but more often at
the discretion of the IAOP;
   (D)   Produce an annual report to the Mayor and the Police Commissioner
documenting cases reviewed and the outcome of the IAOP’s review for each case;
   (E)   To review completed cases of the Boston Police Department’s Internal
Affairs Division (“IAD”);
   (F)   To have access to all materials in the completed internal affairs
files, except those documents protected from disclosure by law;
   (G)   To make recommendations for further investigation or clarification to
OPAT Staff or the Chief of the Boston Police Department’s Bureau of
Professional Standards; and
   (H)   To make recommendations to the Police Commissioner regarding reviewed
cases.
(CBC 1985 12-17.13; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.14   Cases Appropriate for Review by the Internal Affairs Oversight
Panel.
   The IAOP will review the following categories of cases:
   (A)   All completed internal affairs cases at its discretion, or by referral
of the Police Commissioner or Boston City Council, and without limitation to
the nature of the allegation or the number of cases reviewed: in exercising its
discretion to review cases, the Panel shall review a random sample of not
sustained, exonerated or unfounded complaints; and
   (B)   All completed internal affairs cases with not sustained, exonerated or
unfounded findings appealed by complainants who allege that the investigation
of their complaint was either unfair and/or not thorough.
(CBC 1985 12-17.14; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.15   IAOP Review Process.
   (A)   For cases in category a of Subsection 12-17.14, the intake process is
as follows:
      (1)   The following categories of cases will be automatically referred by
IAD for review within 14 days of a finding of not sustained, exonerated or
unfounded:
         (a)   In-custody death or serious bodily injury while in Boston Police
Department custody;
         (b)   Use of force cases resulting in death or serious bodily injury;
         (c)   Allegations of excessive use of force;
         (d)   Allegations of unlawful arrest or stop;
         (e)   Allegations of perjury;
         (f)   Allegations of theft;
         (g)   Allegations of abuse of authority;
         (h)   Allegations that the conduct of an Officer violated BPD policies
regarding the respectful treatment of people, including the Bias Free Policing
Policy, and/or that was motivated by discriminatory intent, including, but not
limited to, slurs relating to race, expression, sexual orientation and
disability; and
         (i)   Any other case deemed appropriate for review by the Police
Commissioner or the Chief of the Bureau of Professional Standards.
      (2)   The IAOP, in its discretion, may request to review any case or
group of cases, and in addition shall request that a random sample of cases be
referred to it in whatever percentage of closed cases it shall designate, in
its discretion from time to time.
      (3)   The individuals involved in the internal affairs case will receive
notification that will include, inter alia, the date received by OPAT Staff, an
identification number and information regarding the time track to which the
case is assigned.
   (B)   For cases in Subsection 12-17.14(B), the review process is as follows.
      (1)   Notification of the final determination of an internal affairs case
will be sent to the complainant by the Commander of IAD. If the Police
Commissioner’s finding is not sustained, exonerated or unfounded, the
complainant will be informed of their ability to file an appeal of the finding
with the IAOP, along with information about how and where to file.
      (2)   A complainant seeking to file an appeal to the IAOP must file an
appeal with OPAT Staff in writing within 14 days of the date the notification
of the finding from IAD is mailed. If the appeal is sent via mail, the appeal
must be postmarked within 14 days from the notification of the finding from IAD
is mailed.
      (3)   The individuals involved in the internal affairs case will receive
notification that will include, inter alia, the date received by OPAT Staff, an
identification number and information regarding the time track to which the
case is assigned.
   (C)   For all cases, once received by the IAOP, the review process is as
follows.
      (1)   Following the review of an internal affairs investigation, the
Panel will deliberate and make one of the following findings:
         (a)   Agree with the internal affairs findings;
         (b)   Disagree with the internal affairs findings; or
         (c)   Refer the case to IAD for further investigation or action.
      (2)   Any findings and conclusions of the IAOP will be made by a majority
vote of the full five member Panel. Said findings will be provided to the
Mayor, the Boston City Council and the Police Commissioner within a period of
ten business days from the date of the vote.
      (3)   If the Panel agrees with the internal affairs findings, the Panel
must submit its findings to the Police Commissioner, the Chief of the Bureau of
Professional Standards, the Legal Advisor for the Boston Police Department and
the named Officer(s).
      (4)   If the Panel disagrees with the internal affairs findings, the
appeal will be referred to the Police Commissioner.
      (5)   If, pursuant to procedure defined above, the Police Commissioner
determines that a case was investigated fairly and thoroughly, the Police
Commissioner will notify the Panel, the Chief, the Legal Advisor and the named
Officer(s).
      (6)   OPAT Staff will notify the complainant of the determination made by
the Panel or the Police Commissioner. All notifications made to the complainant
must be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (7)   OPAT Staff will maintain all case files for the IAOP. The case
files will be treated as confidential and will be reviewed only by OPAT Staff
and the IAOP. Except as required by law, such case files will not be duplicated
or available for inspection by the public, and OPAT Staff must return all case
files to IAD within 14 days of the final determination.
      (8)   The IAOP, consistent with any rules or regulations of the OPAT
Commission, shall, in conjunction with OPAT Staff, establish a target timeline
for the IAOP’s review of appeals and shall
publicize the timeline status of each case. If the IAOP is unable to adhere to
the timeline for review set forth above, OPAT Staff shall provide timely
notification of that fact to the individuals involved in the complaint.
(CBC 1985 12-17.15; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.16   Communication.
   (A)   Semi-annual reports. The OPAT will publish semi-annual reports and
make the reports available to the public on its website. The semi-annual
reports will include: OPAT’s findings of its reviews and analyses of FIO data
and BPD statistics; findings related to disparate treatment, discipline or
termination of BIPOC Officers, in conjunction with the CRB; summary and results
of reviews of BPD policies and procedures; summary and results of evaluations
of alternatives to the civil service examination process; summary and results
of reviews of grant selection and implementation; citizen complaint
determinations, in conjunction with the CRB; and the results of reviews of
completed Internal Affairs investigations, in conjunction with the IAOP.
   (B)   Annual report. The Executive Director shall also make an annual report
to the Mayor and Police Commissioner documenting the work of the OPAT, CRB and
IAOP for the year. This report shall be filed with the Boston City Council.
   (C)   Public reporting of complaints. Information about complaints received
by OPAT shall be published on a monthly basis and in a disaggregated manner to
protect personally identifiable information, including:
      (1)   The number of complaints it receives;
      (2)   The race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation (if known) and age
of the complainants;
      (3)   The precincts and neighborhoods in which the misconduct is alleged
to have taken place;
      (4)   The basic facts of complaints (with personally identifiable
information redacted);
      (5)   The disposition of each complaint;
      (6)   The recommended discipline, if any, for each complaint;
      (7)   The discipline issued, if any, for each complaint; and
      (8)   Any other information the Board shall determine is relevant or
appropriate to carry out its duties and responsibilities.
   (D)   Public reporting of BPD Statistics. OPAT shall request from the BPD
and publish on a monthly basis, in accordance with all applicable governing
laws, rules and regulations, the following:
      (1)   The number of stops made by BPD Officers during the previous
period, including such disaggregated data that OPAT Commission may deem
relevant;
      (2)   The number of use of force incidents by the BPD during the previous
period, including such disaggregated data that the OPAT Commission may deem
relevant;
      (3)   The number of arrests made during the previous period, including
such disaggregated data that the OPAT Commission may deem relevant; and
      (4)   The amount of money the city expended in settlements or judgments
to resolve tort, civil rights or other legal claims filed against the BPD, as
well as the basic facts associated with those claims to the extent permitted by
law or not otherwise restricted from disclosure.
   (E)   OPAT website. OPAT will create and maintain a publicly accessible
website to publish its semi-annual and annual reports, OPAT’s rules and
procedures, case timelines, progress on various BPD reform goals, reporting of
complaint information, reporting of BPD statistics, meeting minutes and any
other information at the discretion of the Executive Director. Information
published on OPAT’s website shall be made available in compliance with the
City’s Language and Communications Access Ordinance and in an electronic format
not only accessible via a computer.
(CBC 1985 12-17.16; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.17   Training.
   (A)   BPD training of CRB and IAOP. Upon appointment to the CRB or IAOP,
each Board member shall attend a three- to four-day training by the BPD,
tailored specifically for each entity, that shall include the following, but
not be limited to: all policies, protocols and practices for arrests, bookings,
special investigation units, internal affairs, Officer-involved shootings, use
of force policies, training policies and Academy, crisis intervention teams,
firearms, explosives and SWAT. Upon appointment, CRB and IAOP members shall
also attend: 
      (1)   Training provided by outside legal counsel including, but not
limited to, the commonwealth’s Attorney General’s Office, Suffolk County
District Attorney’s Office and/or a relevant bar association on the issues of
abusive language, false arrest, false imprisonment, harassment, use of
excessive force, serious bodily injury, Police-involved firearm discharge
investigations and Police-involved shooting fatality investigations;
      (2)   Training in civilian oversight through the National Association for
Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement (“NACOLE”) or equivalent programs that
meet NACOLE’s recommended training for board and commission members; and
      (3)   Any additional training the OPAT Commission determines to be
relevant.
   (B)   Additional training. Each CRB and IAOP member and OPAT staff will
undergo annual training necessary to fulfill the responsibilities set forth
herein, including, but not limited to: specific allegations and complaints that
are the subject of OPAT’s oversight responsibilities; unconscious bias, anti-
racist and racial equity training including Boston specific historical context;
community organization and outreach; and other relevant diversity and inclusion
initiatives.
   (C)   BPD manual; Board procedures. All BPD Police Officers and BPD staff
will receive an explanation of OPAT’s existence, purpose and procedures, which
will be included in a bulletin or manual of rules and procedures. Such
explanation will be included in a training program whether in connection with
existing training programs or in an additional program to be created by BPD in
partnership with the OPAT Commission.
(CBC 1985 12-17.17; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.18   Complaint Mediation Program.
   (A)   The Boston Police Department has implemented the Police-Community
Mediation Program. This program serves as a voluntary alternative to the formal
complaint process, and will be available to those Officers and complainants
involved in less serious incidents. The Police Commissioner, or his or her
designee, determines which complaints are appropriate for the Complaint
Mediation Program. The Executive Director shall designate an employee to serve
as a liaison to the Police-Community Mediation Program. Whenever OPAT Staff
determines that referral for mediation is an appropriate course of action for
any complaint filed with it, the designated liaison shall contact both
complainant and the Police-Community Mediation Program in order to inform them
of the opportunity to mediate and facilitate the initiation of mediation at the
election of the complainant. Where a complainant elects not to participate in
mediation, OPAT Staff shall recommend dismissal, out of scope designation,
referral to IAOP or referral to CRB.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall prevent the OPAT from establishing
a voluntary mediation program to mediate resolutions of complaints.
(CBC 1985 12-17.18; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.19   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions of this Section, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(CBC 1985 12-17.19; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-17.20   Effective Date.
   The provisions of this Section shall take effect on the first day of the
fiscal year beginning after the passage of this Section, or 30 days after the
approval of any supplementary appropriation for the funding of the OPAT in an
earlier fiscal year.
(CBC 1985 12-17.20; Ord. 2020 c. 7 § 1)
12-18   SPECIAL COMMISSION TO END FAMILY HOMELESSNESS.
12-18.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to establish a Special Commission to End
Family Homelessness. The purpose of this Section and the Special Commission is
to develop an actionable and measurable plan to end family homelessness in the
city. The intent of this Section is to ensure no family is homeless in Boston.
(CBC 1985 12-18.1; Ord. 2021 c. 2 § 1)
12-18.2   Establishing the Special Commission.
   (A)   The Special Commission will include 11 members and one alternate
appointed by the Mayor, as follows:
      (1)   One member who represents child care providers who specifically
work with homeless children;
      (2)   One member who represents an emergency food distribution center or
an emergency food provider;
      (3)   One member who represents the Boston Continuum of Care;
      (4)   Three members and one alternate who represent the Family Shelter
Providers Roundtable;
      (5)   Three members who have family homelessness or housing insecurity
lived expertise;
      (6)   One representative (member or staff) from the Boston Legislative
Delegation in the Senate, appointed after consultation with the Boston
Legislative Delegation Chair; and
      (7)   One representative (member or staff) from the Boston Legislative
Delegation in the House, appointed after consultation with the Boston
Legislative Delegation Chair; and
      (8)   The following seven people or their designees, ex officio:
         (a)   A Boston City Councilor designated by the Council President;
         (b)   The City Chief of Health and Human Services;
         (c)   The City Chief of Housing;
         (d)   The Superintendent of Boston Public Schools;
         (e)   Governor of the commonwealth;
         (f)   Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
         (g)   Secretary of Housing and Community Development.
   (B)   The Special Commission meetings will be open to all members of the
Family Shelter Providers Roundtable. Additionally, representatives from the
following Commonwealth Agencies will be considered important partners to be
called upon as needed: the Department of Mental Health, the Department of
Children and Families, the Department of Developmental Services, the Department
of Transitional Assistance, the Department of Early Education and Care, the
commonwealth’s Rehabilitation Commission, the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education and the Department of Public Health.
   (C)   The Special Commission will exist for as long as it takes to develop a
comprehensive, actionable plan to end family homelessness, up to five years
from the founding of the Commission. The Special Commission will ensure this
plan focuses on homeless families in the city.
   (D)   Special Commission members shall serve without compensation, except
for Commission members with lived expertise of family homelessness or housing
insecurity. These members will receive a stipend at the current rate of the
Boston Continuum of Care consumer compensation schedule.
   (E)   Members will elect a Chair for the Commission every year with a simple
majority vote. If there is a tie, the alternate member of the Family Shelter
Provider Roundtable will cast a vote.
   (F)   The Special Commission will first convene within 60 days of the
effective date of this Section. Should there be a vacancy or resignation in any
of the above positions, the Chair of the Special Commission will appoint a new
representative within 90 days. This representative may be from within the same
Agency or Organization as the former Commission member or may be appointed from
another equally relevant Office or organization. Members of the Special
Commission will remain members as long as the Commission exists or unless voted
to be removed by a majority vote of the Commission. Should the Chair of the
Commission leave his or her position for any reason, the Commission members
will elect a new Chair, with a simple majority vote. If there is a tie, the
alternate member of the Family Shelter Provider Roundtable will cast a vote.
   (G)   The Commission will establish further rules to govern Commission
proceedings and meetings within 90 days of the founding of the Commission. The
Commission will have the power to amend their governing rules as necessary.
   (H)   The Advisor to End Family Homelessness will staff the Commission and
work to implement the Commission’s plan to end family homelessness.
(CBC 1985 12-18.2; Ord. 2021 c. 2 § 1)
12-18.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Special Commission.
   (A)   The primary responsibility of the Special Commission is to create a
coordinated plan to end family homelessness in the city. In alignment with the
Boston Continuum of Care, as the Special Commission sees fit, the Commission
will:
      (1)   Identify the current gaps in resources for homeless families and
the necessary steps to fill those gaps;
      (2)   Discern the impact of the lack of stable housing for homeless/
housing insecure children;
      (3)   Conduct a cost analysis of the family homelessness currently and a
cost analysis of providing the necessary resources to end family homelessness;
and
      (4)   Generate a thorough plan that would guide the city’s and the
Continuum of Care’s resources into a coordinated effort that will lead to the
end of family homelessness.
   (B)   This Special Commission will meet Quarterly. Additional meetings may
be held to work on specific issues as they relate to the overall work of this
Commission. The Special Commission will file a bi-annual (every six months)
progress report with the Clerk and the Continuum of Care to update the City and
community on the plan’s development during the entirety of the Commission.
Within the first year, an actionable plan will be presented to the Clerk and
will begin to be implemented as necessary over the ensuing years. The plan may
be adjusted and refined over the course of the Commission.
   (C)   The Special Commission will create Subcommittees to focus on specific
areas of need, which may include early childhood, education, housing
development, workforce development, health and well-being, food access and
security, racial equity and family reunification. Subcommittee membership will
include at least one member of the Commission. Subcommittees will meet monthly
or more often as needed. The Special Commission Subcommittee members will serve
without compensation, except for Subcommittee members with lived expertise of
family homelessness or housing insecurity. These members will receive a stipend
at the current rate of the Boston Continuum of Care consumer compensation
schedule.
   (D)   At any point, the Special Commission may be called upon to testify to
and update the Boston City Council on the city’s progress to end family
homelessness.
   (E)   If the Special Commission determines necessary, the Special Commission
is authorized to continue meeting beyond the five-year Commission limit to
ensure the plan is implemented; provided, the Special Commission continues to
provide bi-annual reports to the Clerk.
   (F)   The Commission reports submitted to the Clerk and any documents
pertaining to the governing of the Commission will be publicly available.
(CBC 1985 12-18.3; Ord. 2021 c. 2 § 1)
12-19   IMMIGRANT ADVANCEMENT FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE.
12-19.1   Purpose.
   The city recognizes that a large percentage of its inhabitants were born
abroad or are the children of parents who were born abroad. It is important for
members of this community to fully and equitably participate in economic,
civic, social and cultural life in the city. It is therefore desirable that the
city promote the utilization of city services by all its residents, including
foreign-born inhabitants, speakers of foreign languages and undocumented
immigrants. Further, the city has a strong interest in advancing the rights of
immigrant residents and removing barriers that unnecessarily impede immigrants
from integrating into the city in an equitable manner.
(Ord. 2023 c. 10)
12-19.2   Establishment of the Office of Immigrant Advancement.
   (A)   There shall be established in the city the Office of Immigrant
Advancement (hereafter known as the “Office”) which shall be under the charge
of an Officer known as the Executive Director of Immigrant Advancement
(hereafter called the “Director”). The Office shall be headed by a Director,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Office shall:
      (1)   Ensure that any service provided by a City Agency shall be made
available to all immigrants who are otherwise eligible for such service to the
same extent such service is made available to citizens unless such agency is
required by law to deny eligibility for such service;
      (2)   Support the city in creating a welcoming environment for immigrant
residents where they can experience belonging, stability and integration;
      (3)   Ensure that immigrant communities can actively participate in
government and other civic and community efforts;
      (4)   Promote the recognition and public understanding of the
contributions of immigrants to the city; and
      (5) Advance systemic reforms of laws, policies and practices in support
of immigrant residents.
(Ord. 2023 c. 10)
12-19.3   Director Responsibilities.
   The Director, or designee, of the Office shall have the power and the duty
to:
   (A)   Advise and assist the Mayor in developing and implementing policies
designed to assist immigrants and speakers of languages other than English in
the city, in consultation with the Office of Language and Communication Access,
with respect to language accessibility;
   (B)   Enhance the accessibility of city programs, benefits and services to
immigrants and speakers of languages other than English, in consultation with
the Office of Language and Communication Access, by establishing outreach
programs in conjunction with other City Agencies and the Council to inform and
educate immigrants and speakers of languages other than English of relevant
city programs, benefits and services;
   (C)   Conduct research and advise the Mayor on challenges faced by
immigrants, including, but not limited to, obstacles to accessing city
programs, benefits and services, and on socio-economic trends related to such
persons;
   (D)   Monitor and conduct analysis on local, state and federal laws,
policies, enforcement tactics and case law regarding issues relating to and
impacting immigrant affairs, including potential strategies for addressing such
developments and maximizing the positive impacts to local immigrants;
   (E)   Promote equitable treatment of immigrants by City Offices,
Departments, Board and Commissions and other governmental Agencies;
   (F)   Make recommendations and provide coordination and support to City
Departments and Agencies concerning public policies, programs, services and
regulations, including sections of the charter and the administrative code, as
they affect or may affect immigrants;
   (G)   Serve as liaison between the city and its immigrant communities, in
order to support the safety, growth and general welfare of such communities;
   (H)   Solicit community and stakeholder input regarding the activities of
the Office, including, but not limited to, the Office’s consultations with
relevant agencies on implementation of sections of the charter and the
administrative code that are relevant to immigrants; and
   (I)   Perform such other duties and functions as may be appropriate to
pursue the policies set forth in this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 10)
12-19.4   Reporting Requirements.
   (A)   All City Departments shall cooperate with the Office and provide
information and assistance as requested; provided, however, no information that
is otherwise required to be provided pursuant to this section shall be
disclosed in a manner that would violate any applicable provision of federal,
state or local law relating to the privacy of information or that would
interfere with law enforcement investigations or otherwise conflict with the
interests of law enforcement.
   (B)   The Office shall annually provide to the Boston City Council and post
on the Office’s website a report regarding the city’s immigrant population and
the activities of the Office during the previous calendar year, including, but
not limited to, the following information, where such information readily is
available:
      (1)   The size and composition of such population, including, but not
limited to, demographic information, socio-economic markers, and estimates of
the immigration status held by members of such population, if any;
      (2)   Information regarding the needs of such population including, but
not limited to, social services, legal services, housing, public benefits,
education and workforce development needs;
      (3)   Information regarding barriers faced by such population in
accessing such services, and recommendations on how the city could address such
barriers; and
      (4)   Information and metrics relating to each programmatic initiative of
the Office, including initiatives that are conducted in partnership with other
Offices or Agencies, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Total program capacity, disaggregated by service type;
         (b)   Number of intakes or program eligibility screenings conducted;
         (c)   Number of individuals served, disaggregated by service type;
         (d)   Number of matters handled, and aggregate data on the outcomes
achieved, disaggregated by service type; and
         (e)   With respect to legal services initiatives, the number of
individuals directly supported or referred to other legal services providers,
disaggregated by service and case type.
(Ord. 2023 c. 10)
12-20   OFFICE OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE.
12-20.1   Purpose.
   The city is inhabited by a broad and diverse set of constituents from
cultural communities, some of which have been and may continue to be
underrepresented in city government decision making. Therefore, a concerted
effort to develop policies and programs that are responsive to the strengths
and needs of these cultural communities is necessary to ensure equity and
inclusion for these communities in the city.
(Ord. 2023 c. 8)
12-20.2   Establishment of the Office of Cultural Affairs.
   There shall be established in the city the Office of Cultural Affairs,
hereafter referred to as the Office, which shall be under the charge of an
Officer known as the Director of Cultural Affairs (hereafter called the
“Director”), who shall be appointed by the Mayor. The Office will be a part of
the Equity and Inclusion Cabinet.
(Ord. 2023 c. 8)
12-20.3   Director Responsibilities.
   The Director, or his or her designee, of the Office shall have the power and
the duty to:
   (A)   Develop, implement and evaluate culturally competent programming aimed
at fostering a sense of belonging in the city among diverse cultural
communities;
   (B)   Connect with City Departments, community leaders and cultural
organizations to curate events or find resources and opportunities for
constituents. Enhance the accessibility of city programs, benefits and services
to the historically excluded cultural communities represented by this Office by
establishing outreach programs in conjunction with other City Agencies and
Departments to inform and educate those communities of relevant city programs,
benefits and services;
   (C)   Collaborate with stakeholders to develop and advocate for policies
that address the unique needs and challenges of various cultural communities
and perform policy analysis and program evaluation to ensure the social,
emotional and financial well-being of these cultural communities;
   (D)   Solicit community and stakeholder input regarding programming and
policies to ensure that the priorities of underrepresented communities are
properly considered in city decision making;
   (E)   Manage a staff of Cultural Advisors responsible for leading the above
functions for specific historically excluded cultural communities in the city:
historically excluded cultural communities will be defined as groups of city
residents:
      (1)   With common ethnic ancestry, country of origin, language spoken
and/or region of the world;
      (2)   With significant populations in the city; and
      (3)   Who, as a whole or with a subgroup, have economic, health or civic
indicators demonstrating an insufficient ability to benefit from the city’s
resources.
   (F)   Cultural advisors will develop a midyear progress report and end of
year review on current lessons learned, community priorities and policy
recommendations to better serve the residents within each cultural community;
   (G)   Advise the Mayor on challenges faced by historically underrepresented
residents, including, but not limited to, obstacles to accessing city programs,
benefits and services, and on socio-economic trends related to such persons;
   (H)   Identify model policies, practices, and programs within City
Departments or Agencies, as well as in other municipalities across the United
States, that effectively support historically excluded residents that can be
adopted or adapted across the city; and
   (I)   Perform such other duties and functions as may be appropriate to
pursue the policies set forth in this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 8)
12-20.4   Reporting Requirements.
   The Office shall provide to the City Council a midyear progress report and
end of year review on current lessons learned, community priorities and policy
recommendations to better serve the residents within each cultural community
developed by the Cultural Advisors.
(Ord. 2023 c. 8)
CHAPTER XIII: NATURAL GAS
Section
13-1   MANAGEMENT AND ELIMINATION OF NATURAL GAS LEAKS
   
13-1.1   Purpose
   
13-1.2   Definitions
   
13-1.3   Coordination of Street Repair and Repair and Survey of Natural Gas
Leaks
   
13-1.4   Accountability for Natural Gas Leak Destruction of Trees, Tree Care
and Replacement
   
13-1.5   Severance Clause
13-1   MANAGEMENT AND ELIMINATION OF NATURAL GAS LEAKS.
13-1.1   Purpose.
   The intent of this Section is:
   (A)   To improve the management of city infrastructure by coordinating
maintenance, repair, upgrades and replacement with gas companies;
   (B)   To minimize costs, traffic disruption and blockage due to street
openings;
   (C)   To protect the city’s and its residents’ investments in urban trees
and green space;
   (D)   To enhance the public health, safety and welfare of city residents,
businesses and visitors;
   (E)   To support the city’s Climate Action Plan; and
   (F)   To facilitate closure of natural gas leaks as efficiently as possible.
(CBC 1985 13-1.1; Ord. 2016 c. 20 § 1)
13-1.2   Definitions.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, words used in and construction of this
Section shall observe Section 1-1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Boston and its legal limits and all rights of access
and easements in and licenses to use land areas outside of its legal limits to
which it has the right or obligation to maintain.
      GAS COMPANY. A corporation organized for the purpose of making and
selling, or distributing and selling, gas within the commonwealth, even though
subsequently authorized to make or sell electricity; provided, however, that
GAS COMPANY shall not mean an alternative energy producer as defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 164, Section 1.
      PUBLIC WORKS. The Boston Public Works Department.
      STATE OF THE ART. Using the best available equipment, technology and
methodology.
(CBC 1985 13-1.2; Ord. 2016 c. 20 § 1)
13-1.3   Coordination of Street Repair and Repair and Survey of Natural Gas
Leaks.
   (A)   (1)   The city, at its discretion, shall provide written notification
to any relevant gas company of the city’s intent, or the city’s grant of
consent to any other entity, to open the ground on any public way for any non-
emergency purpose. The notification shall:
         (a)   Invite the gas company to survey the area to be opened, for the
presence of natural gas leaks; provided that any such survey shall utilize
state of the art equipment and practices;
         (b)   Invite the gas company to repair or replace any aging, leak-
prone or leaking natural gas infrastructure that is located on the public way;
and
         (c)   Notify the gas company that the city, in furtherance of the
purposes of this Section as described in Subsection 13-1.1, may deny any
subsequent application from the gas company to open the ground until such
repairs have been made.
      (2)   The city may determine the perimeter of the project area. Unless
otherwise defined in the notification, the perimeter shall be the area to be
opened.
   (B)   In permitting a gas company to open a public way within the city for
the purposes of natural gas infrastructure repair or replacement, Public Works
should further the purposes of this Section as described in Subsection 13-1.1.
   (C)   In connection with the issuance of a permit to a gas company to open a
public way within the city for the purposes of natural gas infrastructure
repair or replacement, the gas company shall provide the following information
to the city:
      (1)   The location, grade, estimated volume and history of each and every
natural gas leak known to be present in the area to be opened;
      (2)   The age, type and condition of the natural gas infrastructure
present in the area to be opened; and
      (3)   The operating pressure, size and material of natural gas
infrastructure present in the area to be opened.
   (D)   The city may deny any subsequent application from a gas company to
open a public way within the city if the gas company, in the course of any
natural gas infrastructure repair or replacement, does not perform any of the
following duties:
      (1)   Promptly notify the city upon completion of the repair or
replacement of natural gas infrastructure;
      (2)   Survey the project area for the presence of natural gas leaks;
provided that such survey shall utilize state of the art equipment and
practices; and
      (3)   Repair or replace any aging or leaking natural gas infrastructure
that is located within the project area.
   (E)   The gas company shall inform the city of the location, classification
grade and estimated volume, if known, of any natural gas leak and the material
of any gas pipelines detected by any survey the gas company conducts under
division (A) or (D) above.
   (F)   Any survey or natural gas infrastructure repair or replacement
activities under division (A) or (D) above shall occur within a reasonable
period of time to be determined by the city and shall be subject to such other
reasonable terms and conditions as the city may require. The city may survey
the project area for the presence of natural gas leaks at any time; provided
that the city shall inform the gas company of the location of any natural gas
leak detected by its survey.
   (G)   In furtherance of the purposes of this Section as described in
Subsection 13-1.1, the city may deny any subsequent application from a gas
company to open a public way within the city if the gas company, in the course
of any natural gas infrastructure repair or replacement, does not perform any
of the following.
      (1)   Upon the undertaking of any natural gas infrastructure repair or
replacement within the city, the gas company shall ensure that any gas shutoff
valve in the project area has a gate box installed upon it to ensure continued
public safety and that any critical valve that has not been inspected and
tested within the past 12 months is verified to be operational and accessible.
      (2)   Upon the undertaking of any project involving excavation for
purposes of performing maintenance on or construction involving any gas mains
or services by gas company employees within the city, the gas company shall
ensure that:
         (a)   Its employees first locate, identify and mark all gas shutoff
valves and gate boxes, and verify that all are cleared, operational and
accessible in clear sight at ground level in advance of any excavation;
         (b)   Any gas shut off valve in the project area has a gate box
installed upon it by the gas company’s employees to ensure continued public
safety; and
         (c)   Gas shutoff valves and gate boxes are left cleared and
operational following any such project.
      (3)   The gas company shall provide the city with written confirmation
that the gas shutoff valves and gate boxes have been cleared, inspected and
tested by its employees and have been found to be capable of accepting a gate
key; and, in the event the location of gas shutoff valves or gate boxes is
determined to have been previously improperly located, the gas company shall
provide the city with updated, correct information regarding the location of
gas shutoff valves or gate boxes.
      (4)   Upon completion of any repair or replacement of a natural gas
infrastructure, the gas company shall provide to the city a report from a
certified gas inspector certifying that the pipes are installed at the proper
depth, all new joints are sealed, gas shutoff valves and gate boxes are
properly installed, pipe installation is free of defects that could cause new
leaks and the infrastructure repair or replacement was otherwise properly
completed.
   (H)   In the interest of improving the management of city infrastructure,
each gas company that owns or operates natural gas transportation or storage
infrastructure within the city shall, within 120 days of passage of this
Section and at least annually thereafter, provide the following to Public
Works:
      (1)   Any plan to address aging or leaking natural gas infrastructure
that the gas company provided to the Department of Public Utilities within the
prior year under M.G.L. Chapter 164, Section 145(b);
      (2)   Any report identifying Grade 1, Grade 2 and Grade 3 leaks located
within the city that the gas company provided to the Department of Public
Utilities within the prior year as required by M.G.L. Chapter 164, Section 11;
      (3)   Notice of the scheduled start of any planned natural gas repair or
replacement activities within the city;
      (4)   Any information or documents that the gas company provided to the
Department of Public Utilities within the prior year regarding Grade 3 natural
gas leaks identified as having a significant environmental impact and located
within the city; and
      (5)   Any information or documents that the gas company provided to the
Department of Public Utilities within the prior year related to the volume of,
or the greenhouse gas emissions associated with, any individual gas leak or
grouping of gas leaks located within the city.
   (I)   Any information provided to Public Works under division (H) above
shall be provided in a form that is machine-readable and able to be copied and
easily manipulated. Where necessary, information shall be accompanied by
definitions of any terms, acronyms and jargon used, and shall specify the
criteria, methodologies and instrumentation used to detect the presence of a
natural gas leak and determine its grade, emissions, volume or environmental
impact.
   (J)   Within six months of effective date of this Section, the Environment,
Energy and Open Space Cabinet of the city shall develop and publish criteria
for requesting data related to natural gas infrastructure from the Department
of Public Utilities and from the gas companies, and shall update such criteria
as necessary to account for changes in commonwealth and federal reporting
policies and the availability of data. Information to be requested may include:
      (1)   A map or list designating, by street segment, age, material and
pressure, each and every component of aging and leak-prone natural gas
infrastructure located within the city; and
      (2)   Information or documents related to the volume of, or the
greenhouse gas emissions associated with, any individual gas leak or grouping
of gas leaks located within the city.
(CBC 1985 13-1.3; Ord. 2016 c. 20 § 1)
13-1.4   Accountability for Natural Gas Leak Destruction of Trees, Tree Care
and Replacement.
   (A)   The Environment, Energy and Open Space Cabinet shall develop and
publish protocols and procedures for:
      (1)   Pursuing and obtaining compensation for or restoration or
replacement of any trees or shrubs that have been injured or killed by natural
gas leaks; and
      (2)   Mitigating any further injury to trees and shrubs caused by natural
gas leaks to the maximum extent feasible.
   (B)   This provision shall apply to any trees or shrubs located on city
owned property or otherwise under the ownership or control of the city. Such
protocols and procedures may include procedures by which the city will invite
gas companies to repair or replace aging or leaking natural gas infrastructure
located within a certain distance of a damaged tree or shrub.
(Ord. 2016 c. 20 § 1)
13-1.5   Severance Clause.
   The determination or declaration that any provision of this Section is
beyond the authority of the city or is preempted by some other law or
regulation shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
provision.
(CBC 1985 13-1.5; Ord. 2016 c. 20 § 1)
CHAPTER XIV: LICENSING AND CONSUMER BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND OFFICERS
Section
14-1   LICENSING BOARD
14-2   COMMITTEE ON LICENSES
   
14-2.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner
14-3   DIRECTOR OF MARKETS
14-4   REGULATION UNDER POLICE POWERS
14-5   DUTY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
   
14-5.1   Duties of Animal Control Officer
14-6   CONSUMERS’ COUNCIL
   
14-6.1   Composition of Board
   
14-6.2   Duties
14-1   LICENSING BOARD.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 T14 c. 1; CBC 1985 14-1)
14-2   COMMITTEE ON LICENSES.
14-2.1   Powers and Duties of Commissioner.
   (A)   There shall be in the Building Department a Committee of the Public
Safety Commission, known as the Committee on Licenses, consisting of the
Building Commissioner, the Fire Commissioner and the Commissioner of Traffic
and Parking, ex officiis. Said Committee shall have the powers and perform the
duties conferred or imposed on the Board of Street Commissioners by M.G.L.
Chapter 148, by Chapter 577 of the Acts of 1913 and by Chapter 349 of the Acts
of 1953 and all acts in amendment thereof.
   (B)   The Committee on Licenses shall not be subject to the supervision or
control of the Building Commissioner except as he or she acts as a member
thereof; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Committee on Licenses
shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make any annual or other report,
except through the Building Commissioner.
(St. 1959 c. 203; Ord. 1962 c. 9 § 2; Ord. 1970 c. 5 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup.
1971) c. 9 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 50; CBC 1985 14-2.1)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 148; St. 1913 c. 577; St. 1953 c. 349; St. T. 8 c. 8
14-3   DIRECTOR OF MARKETS.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 c. 5; CBC 1985 14-3)
14-4   REGULATION UNDER POLICE POWERS.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 c. 7; CBC 1985 14-4)
14-5   DUTY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
14-5.1   Duties of Animal Control Officer.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer appointed under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
151, or the domestic charitable corporation, from time to time, performing by
contract the duties of Animal Control Officer in accordance with said Section,
shall apprehend and impound any dog found running at large in any street or
public place within the city in violation of Subsection 16-1.9. Upon
apprehending or receiving any such dog the Animal Control Officer or domestic
charitable corporation performing duties as aforesaid shall make a complete
registry, entering the breed, color and sex of such dog, whether or not such
dog is licensed, and, if such dog is licensed, the name and address of the
owner and the number of the license tag. The Animal Control Officer or domestic
charitable corporation performing duties as aforesaid shall as soon as possible
notify the owner of any such dog, if known, that the dog has been impounded,
and shall return any dog so impounded to the owner thereof upon payment of all
costs and charges incurred by the Animal Control Officer or by such domestic
charitable corporation in connection with the apprehension and detention of
such dog and, if such dog is unlicensed when apprehended, upon presentation of
a license for such dog secured from the Police Commissioner by the owner
thereof.
   (B)   The Listing Board or its Agents shall give to each owner or harborer
of an unlicensed dog the form of application for a dog license that may, from
time to time, be prescribed by the Police Commissioner, with as many duplicate
copies of the same as may be required by the Police Commissioner, and shall
inform each such owner or harborer of the procedure, if any, that may be, from
time to time, established by the Police Commissioner for submitting such
application and securing such license by mail.
(Ord. 1972 c. 15 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 500; CBC 1985 14-5.1; Ord. 2014 c. 15
§§ 3, 4)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 151; Ord. ss 2-4.1; Ord. ss 16-1.9
14-6   CONSUMERS’ COUNCIL.
14-6.1   Composition of Board.
   (A)   There shall be in the city a Board, known as the Boston Consumer’s
Council, consisting of the Corporation Counsel, or his or her designee, the
Sealer of Weights and Measures, or his or her designee, the Commissioner of
Health and Hospitals, or his or her designee, a person appointed by the Mayor
after consultation with the Consumers’ Council of the commonwealth and three
other persons appointed by the Mayor, at least two of whom shall be persons of
low income. Each of the persons appointed by the Mayor shall serve for a term
expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial
municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. The Mayor shall, from time to
time, designate one of the members of the Council as Chair and another as Vice-
Chair. All members of the Council shall serve without compensation, but shall
be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties. The Council shall meet every other month, and at other times at the
call of the Chair.
   (B)   The Mayor shall designate an employee of his or her Office to serve as
Executive Secretary of the Council; and the Council may appoint a clerical
assistant.
(Ord. 1968 c. 15; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. l0A § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 §
200; CBC 1985 14-6.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.1; Ord. ss 5-5.1; Statutes, Title 9 § 10; Ord. ss 12-1.1
14-6.2   Duties.
   The Boston Consumers’ Council shall conduct studies, investigations and
research in matters affecting consumer interests; shall keep consumers in the
city informed on matters affecting their interests, using for that purpose such
media of communication as the Council shall, from time to time, adjudge
appropriate; and shall pursue a course of action to ensure to the fullest
possible extent that all laws enacted for the benefit of consumers are duly
enforced.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 201)
CHAPTER XV: DIVISIONS OF THE MAYOR’S OFFICE
Section
15-1   COMMISSION ON WOMEN
15-2   HOME WEATHERIZATION PROGRAM
   
15-2.1   Program Established; Purpose and Duties
   
15-2.2   Administration by Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency
15-3   OFFICE OF BUSINESS AND CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
   
15-3.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-3.2   Powers and Duties
15-4   OFFICE OF CONSTITUENT SERVICES
   
15-4.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-4.2   Powers and Duties
15-5   OFFICE OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS AND LICENSING
   
15-5.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-5.2   Divisions Established; Duties
15-6   OFFICE OF INFORMATIONAL SERVICES
   
15-6.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-6.2   Powers and Duties
15-7   OFFICE OF POLICY MANAGEMENT
   
15-7.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-7.2   Duties
15-8   OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION
   
15-8.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director
   
15-8.2   Duties
15-9   THE OFFICE OF THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES
   
15-9.1   Established; Appointment of Executive Director
   
15-9.2   Arts and Humanities Advisory Commission
   
15-9.3   Duties of Executive Director
   
15-9.4   Duties of the Advisory Commission
   
15-9.5   Quarterly Reports
15-10   THE BOSTON FAIR CHANCE ACT
   
15-10.1   Declaration of Policy
   
15-10.2   Definitions
   
15-10.3   Creation of a Position of a Director of Diversity
   
15-10.4   Duties of the Director of Diversity
   
15-10.5   Employment and Recruitment Practices for Prospective Covered
Employees
   
15-10.6   Promotional Practices for Covered Employees
15-11   COMMISSION ON BLACK MEN AND BOYS
   
15-11.1   Established
   
15-11.2   Organization
   
15-11.3   Duties
   
15-11.4   Office of Black Male Advancement
15-12   TASK FORCE TO ADDRESS LITERACY RATES IN THE CITY
   
15-12.1   Establishment and Purpose
   
15-12.2   Composition and Term
   
15-12.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Task Force
   
15-12.4   Severability
15-13   CREATION OF TASK FORCE TO ADVISE AND SUPPORT PROPOSALS FOR REPARATIONS
FOR AFRICAN AMERICANS IN THE CITY
   
15-13.1   Task Force Established and Purpose
   
15-13.2   Organization
   
15-13.3   Duties and Responsibilities
15-1   COMMISSION ON WOMEN.
Editor’s note:
   Ch. 35 of the Ordinance of 1984 established within the Mayor’s Office a
Division to be known as the Commission on Women. A decision of the Mass.
Appeals Court 24 Mass. App. Ct. 633, presently under appeal, however held said
ordinance invalid.
15-2   HOME WEATHERIZATION PROGRAM.
15-2.1   Program Established; Purpose and Duties.
   There shall be, within the Mayor’s Office, a program to be known as the Home
Weatherization Program. The Home Weatherization Program shall conduct public
seminars on home weatherization in each district of the city; shall coordinate
with private, nonprofit Agencies the conduct of home energy audits for Boston
grants, low interest loans and market rate-loans to be administered by local
lending institutions and public utilities for residents of the city. The Home
Weatherization Program shall, on May 1 of each year, submit a report on the
program’s activities covering the 12-month period ending the previous March 31,
to the Mayor and the Boston City Council.
(Ord. 1984 c. 25 § 1; CBC 1985 15-2.1)
15-2.2   Administration by Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency.
   The program described herein shall be administered totally by the
Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency (“NDEA”) of the city.
(Ord. 1984 c. 25 § 2; CBC 1985 15-2.2)
15-3   OFFICE OF BUSINESS AND CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT.
15-3.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Business and Cultural Development which shall be under the charge of
an Officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve
at the pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a Department head
with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management
within said Office.
(Ord. 1984 c. 15 § 1; CBC 1985 15-3.1)
Cross-reference:
   See Subsection 2-7.1, Appointments by the Mayor
15-3.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Office of Business and Cultural Development shall be responsible:
   (A)   To develop opportunities for new business for Boston’s neighborhood’s
and its downtown area;
   (B)   To retain business and job opportunities;
   (C)   To promote trade, tourism and convention opportunities;
   (D)   To enhance the cultural aspects of life, particularly in Boston’s
neighborhoods;
   (E)   To conduct annual and special celebrations in such a way that the
concerns are met as well as attracting business and cultural quality and
revenue to the neighborhoods and the downtown area; and
   (F)   To establish, promote and support (with technical assistance) advisory
groups to neighborhood,
minority, women’s and other business and cultural groups.
(Ord. 1984 c. 15 § 2; CBC 1985 15-3.2)
15-4   OFFICE OF CONSTITUENT SERVICES.
15-4.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Constituent Services which shall be under the charge of an Officer,
known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a Department head with
respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within
said Office.
(Ord. 1984 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1985 15-4.1)
15-4.2   Powers and Duties.
   (A)   The Office of Constituent Services will receive and respond to
problems and requests for service by individuals and community groups. It will
make referrals to City Departments, where appropriate, for such services, or
provide advice in regard to other levels of government or private sector
Agencies, if city services are not involved.
   (B)   This Office will coordinate the 24-hour service emergency center.
   (C)   It will make policy recommendations to the Mayor based on complaint
information received from citizens.
(Ord. 1984 c. 14 § 2; CBC 1985 15-4.2)
15-5   OFFICE OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS AND LICENSING.
15-5.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing which shall be under the charge of an
Officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at
the pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a Department head
with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management
within said Office.
(Ord. 1984 c. 12 § 1; CBC 1985 15-5.1)
15-5.2   Divisions Established; Duties.
   The Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing shall contain two divisions as
follows:
   (A)   The Licensing Division which at the direction of the Mayor shall be
responsible for the regulation of Boston’s entertainment industry as set forth
by applicable law; and
   (B)   The Consumer Affairs Division which shall mediate, educate and
advocate on behalf of the city’s consumers.
(Ord. 1984 c. 12 § 2; CBC 1985 15-5.2)
15-6   OFFICE OF INFORMATIONAL SERVICES.
15-6.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Informational Services which shall be under the charge of an Officer,
known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a Department head with
respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within
said Office.
(Ord. 1984 c. 13 § 1; CBC 1985 15-6.1)
15-6.2   Powers and Duties.
   The Office of Informational Services will initiate programs which improve
public understanding of city government. Its programs shall be designed to
enable citizens to take full advantage of the resources of municipal government
at their disposal. It will also respond to requests for information about
operations of city government coming from the public.
(Ord. 1984 c. 13 § 2; CBC 1985 15-6.2)
15-7   OFFICE OF POLICY MANAGEMENT.
15-7.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Policy Management, which shall be under the charge of an Officer to
be known as the Director of the Office of Policy Management, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The
Director shall have the powers of a Department head with respect to execution
of contracts and matters of personnel management within the Office.
(Ord. 1982 c. 30 § 1; CBC 1985 15-7.1)
15-7.2   Duties.
   The Office of Policy Management shall develop methods of implementing and of
testing the efficiency and effectiveness of policies and programs of the Mayor
and several City Departments subject to the Mayor’s supervision and control.
(Ord. 1982 c. 30 § 1; CBC 1985 15-7.2)
15-8   OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION.
15-8.1   Office Established; Appointment of Director.
   There shall be within the Mayor’s Office a Division to be known as the
Office of Public Information, which shall be under the charge of an Officer to
be known as the Director of the Office of Public Information, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The
Director shall have the powers of a Department head with respect to execution
of contracts and matters of personnel management within the Office.
(Ord. 1982 c. 29 § 1; CBC 1985 15-8.1)
15-8.2   Duties.
   The Office of Public Information shall coordinate and manage the collection
of dissemination of information to the public for the several Departments
subject to the supervision and control of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1982 c. 29 § 1; CBC 1985 15-8.2)
15-9   THE OFFICE OF THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES.
15-9.1   Established; Appointment of Executive Director.
   There shall be and hereby is established within the Mayor’s Office a
division known as the Office of the Arts and Humanities, to be under the charge
of an Officer, known as the Executive Director, to be appointed by the Mayor
for a term expiring the first Monday in January following the next biennial
election at which a Mayor is elected.
(CBC 1985 15-9.1; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)
15-9.2   Arts and Humanities Advisory Commission.
   Within the Office of the Arts and Humanities there shall be a Board known as
the Arts and Humanities Advisory Commission, consisting of 13 individuals
appointed by the Mayor from city-wide, neighborhood or community cultural
organizations and the community at large. Each member shall be appointed for
terms of two years, ending on the 30th of April; provided, however, that the
Mayor shall designate seven of the initial members for terms expiring April 30,
1987 and six for terms expiring April 30, 1988. All members of the Arts and
Humanities Commission shall be residents of Boston. The Mayor shall appoint one
member to serve as Chair at his or her pleasure. No member of the Commission
shall receive compensation other than reimbursement for reasonable expenses
incurred in connection with service on the commission. Member of the Commission
shall be deemed “special municipal employees” in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter
268A.
(CBC 1985 15-9.2; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)
15-9.3   Duties of Executive Director.
   The Executive Director shall: administer city art programs; seek and apply
for grants in the area of the arts and humanities from any source, public or
private; do research, conduct educational programs and disseminate information
to the public regarding the fine and performing arts; administer grants to
benefit the arts and individual artists; coordinate with public and private
agencies the development of the arts in the city; serve as liaison with all
other local, commonwealth and federal Departments and public or private
Agencies connected with the arts; coordinate with the Art Commission the
promotion of new and the restoration of existing public art.
(CBC 1985 15-9.3; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)
15-9.4   Duties of the Advisory Commission.
   The Advisory Commission shall: survey and assess the needs of the arts, both
visual and performing within the city; identify existing legislation, policies
and programs which affect the arts and evaluate their effectiveness; encourage
the use of local resources for the development and support of the arts; make
application for gifts of grants from the United States, the commonwealth, their
Agencies or Officers including without limitation the National Endowment of the
Arts, the commonwealth’s Arts Lottery Council and the commonwealth’s Council on
the Arts and Humanities; and from any person, firm or corporation, of services,
equipment, supplies, materials or funds, and may make grants in accordance with
the law.
(CBC 1985 15-9.4; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)
15-9.5   Quarterly Reports.
   The Executive Director, in consultation with the Chair of the Commission,
shall make quarterly reports to the Mayor and the Boston City Council
concerning receipts and expenditures of funds of the arts.
(CBC 1985 15-9.5; Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)
15-10   THE BOSTON FAIR CHANCE ACT.
15-10.1   Declaration of Policy.
   (A)   The city presently has a racially and ethnically diverse population.
However, this population diversity is not proportionately reflected within all
levels of the city’s employment profile, nor in the profile of businesses
securing contracts with the city. The city’s administration should ensure that
this diverse population is reflected in its employment profile and in its
procurement system. The city should also utilize its power and influence to
persuade the private business sector to reflect this minority population among
its employees. Furthermore, women and minorities have established innumerable
businesses which have not received a fair share of the millions of dollars that
the city contracts out for goods, services and construction. There must be a
concerted effort to ensure women and minority businesses a greater share of
city contracts. It is hereby declared that nondiscrimination and equal
opportunity shall be the policy of the city in all of its decisions, programs
and activities. To that end, each executive Officer serving under the Mayor,
and all city employees shall rigorously take affirmative steps to ensure
equality of opportunity in the internal affairs of city government, as well as
in their relations with the public, including those persons and organizations
doing business with the city. Each Agency, in discharging its statutory
responsibilities, shall consider the likely effects which its decisions,
programs and activities shall have in meeting the goal of equality of
opportunity. Affirmative action requires more than vigilance in the elimination
of discriminatory barriers to employment on the grounds of race, color,
religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, gender identity or
expression, sexual orientation and handicap. It requires positive and
aggressive measures to ensure equal opportunity in the areas of hiring,
promotion, demotion or transfer, recruitment, layoff or termination, rate of
compensation, in service or apprenticeship training programs, and all terms and
conditions of employment. Affirmative Action shall include efforts required to
remedy all unfair employment practices, and any action necessary to guarantee
equal employment opportunity and access to city contracts for all people.
   (B)   The purpose of this Section is to also eliminate conflicts of interest
and discrimination in the hiring and promotional practices of covered employees
and to establish rules and regulations for the hiring, employment,
classification, upgrade, compensation or promotion of covered employees to
ensure that they prioritize merit, experience and job performance.
(CBC 1985 15-10.1; Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 1; Ord. 2002 c. 9; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-10.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Any unit of government within the municipal structure of the city
that is responsible for the application, administration and execution and
compliance with the provisions of this Section.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   COVERED EMPLOYEE. Any employee employed directly by the city, including a
contract employee employed pursuant to an employment agreement between the city
and the employee. Collective bargaining and civil service procedures that
conflict with provisions of this Section supersede those provisions of this
Section.
   FAMILY RELATIONSHIP. A relationship by blood, adoption, marriage and
domestic partnership, and includes parents, grandparents, great- grandparents,
grandchildren, great-grandchildren, children, uncles, aunts, nephews, nieces,
first cousins, siblings and the spouses of domestic partners of each of these
relatives. This definition includes any relationship that exists by virtue of
marriage or domestic partnership, such as in-law and step relationships.
   MINORITY. A person who is Black, Hispanic, Asian American, Pacific Islander,
Native American or Cape Verdean.
   NEPOTISM. Conflict of interest as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 268A, and shall
also refer to the practice of someone in a position of authority showing favor
to an individual or individuals with whom they are in a family relationship, as
defined by this Section.
(CBC 1985 15-10.2; Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 2; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-10.3   Creation of a Position of a Director of Diversity.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the Office of Human Resources, or
any successor Office, a position to be known as Director of Diversity; said
position to be filled by appointment by the Mayor for a term expiring on the
first Monday of January following the next biennial election at which the Mayor
is elected who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed by law. The
Mayor shall appoint the Director of Diversity within 120 days of passage of
this Section.
   (B)   The Director of Diversity shall have oversight of the city’s policy of
nondiscrimination, equal opportunity and affirmative action.
(CBC 1985 15-10.3; Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 3; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-10.4   Duties of the Director of Diversity.
   The Director of Diversity shall:
   (A)   Work with all City Cabinets to designate a new or identify an existing
internal Diversity Officer who shall be tasked with the creation of a Diversity
Plan;
   (B)   Work with all City Agencies’ Diversity Officer in the creation of
their Diversity Plan, including, but not limited to: a detailed plan for the
hiring of minority employees, women employees, LGBTQ+ employees and employees
with disabilities; a detailed plan for the promotion of said employees;
preventing harassment, intimidation and bullying; a detailed plan for
disseminating this information to covered employees. Such a plan will be made
available to the public via an online dashboard and the Office of the City
Clerk;
   (C)   Give final approval or disapproval of all Diversity Plans prepared by
such Agency’s Diversity Officer;
   (D)   Conduct a yearly audit or review of Diversity Plans and their
implementation to ensure that they comply with such plans and the intent of
this Section;
   (E)   Establish a uniform complaint procedure which shall be available to
any covered employee subject to this Section to determine any and all issues
arising from this Section and related to Diversity Plans, including protections
against retaliation. This shall also apply to prospective employees and
employees who have received a conditional offer of employment but have yet to
begin their work. It is recognized that the uniform complaint procedure
established by the Director of Diversity cannot substitute for any employee’s
rights under commonwealth or federal anti-discrimination laws, therefore any
complaint procedure established by the should focus on supporting the effective
operation and implementation of Diversity Plans by the city, while not replace
any individual employee’s existing rights under commonwealth and federal law,
including the rights to bring matters to the MCAD, to the Civil Service
Commission or to any process established by a collective bargaining agreement;
   (F)   Take appropriate steps to build public awareness of the Director of
Diversity, in addition to awareness amongst covered employees, and of all
procedures established by the Office for receiving complaints. The CDO shall
provide information to covered employees about the identification of nepotism,
workplace discrimination, hiring and promotional discrimination, harassment,
intimidation and bullying;
   (G)   Ensure that all covered employees are provided with a fact sheet about
this Section and any other relevant workplace discrimination/anti-nepotism
policies and ordinances, including contact information for the Human Rights
Commission, the Office of Human Resources, the Mayor’s Office of Women’s
Advancement, the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Advancement, the Disability
Commission, the commonwealth’s Commission Against Discrimination, the Office of
Veterans Services and other Departments as needed. This fact sheet shall be
posted in a conspicuous location visible to all employees;
   (H)   Report from time to time, but at least every six months, to the Mayor
and the Boston City Council on the progress being made by the Agencies in
administering their Diversity Plans. The Director of Diversity shall submit an
annual report to the Mayor and Boston City Council with details and figures
documenting Agency progress made towards realizing this Section’s goals. The
report shall include an identification of problems and specific recommendations
for increasing the city’s performance, in consultation with the city’s HR,
payroll, benefits and Departments to ensure success in meeting the city’s
affirmative action goals. The Director of Diversity shall submit the reports to
the Clerk and the Clerk shall docket the report and include the docket on the
agenda of the next-occurring meeting of the Boston City Council; and
   (I)   Ensure that the city’s personnel system is operated in ways which
provide assistance to Agencies in meeting the goals set in the Diversity Equity
Inclusion Plans.
(CBC 1985 15-10.4; Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 3; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-10.5   Employment and Recruitment Practices for Prospective Covered
Employees.
   In regards to recruitment and employment practices for prospective covered
employees the Director of Diversity shall:
   (A)   Ensure that any individual who receives a conditional offer of
employment with the city discloses all family relationships to or with other
covered employees or officials;
   (B)   Ensure that any employee engaged in the hiring process or holding
decision making authority for their Agency receiving an application from a
family member, discloses that relationship to their Immediate supervisor and
recuses themselves from the hiring process;
   (C)   Ensure that no public officials or covered employee supervises,
evaluates or directly manages any other covered employees with whom they have a
family relationship; and
   (D)   Create alternate arrangements for instances where a family
relationship arises so that no official or employee performs supervision and/or
influences in any manner the terms and conditions of employment of a relative.
(CBC 1985 15-10.5; Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 4; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-10.6   Promotional Practices for Covered Employees.
   In regards to promotional practices for covered employees, the Director of
Diversity shall:
   (A)   Establish criteria for a fair, and transparent procedure regarding
promotions, upgrading and reclassification of any covered employee;
   (B)   Provide opportunities upon request for employees to assess and review
career paths and other opportunities for advancement within the city;
   (C)   Ensure that a reasonable amount of time at the discretion of the
Director of Diversity is given to all covered employees looking to receive a
promotion, upgrade or reclassification; and
   (D)   Ensure that, should a covered employee be denied for a promotion, the
employer shall provide a statement of specific reasons for their denial if
requested.
(CBC 1985 15-10.6; Ord. 2022 c. 5)
15-11   COMMISSION ON BLACK MEN AND BOYS.
15-11.1   Established.
   There shall be within the Mayor's office a division to be known as the
Commission on Black Men and Boys (hereinafter the "Commission").
(CBC 1985 15-11.1; Ord. 2021 c. 11; Ord. 2024 c. 6 § 1)
15-11.2   Organization.
   (A)   Membership. The membership shall consist of 21 members, all of whom
shall be appointed by the Mayor. One two-year term member shall be a youth
member. One three-year member shall be a youth member.
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   The members shall be appointed to serve for the following initial
terms:
         (a)   Seven members shall serve for two-year terms;
         (b)   Seven members shall serve for three-year terms; and
         (c)   Seven members shall serve for four-year terms.
      (2)   Thereafter, as the term of a member expires, the member's successor
shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of three years from such expiration.
      (3)   Any members absent for more than one-third of the Commission
meetings within a 12-month period may be removed from the Commission by the
Mayor at the Mayor's discretion by filing a written statement of reasons for
removal with the City Clerk; provided, however, that there were at least three
meetings of the Commission during the 12-month period.
      (4)   Vacancies, other than by reason of expiration of terms, shall be
filled for the balance of unexpired terms, appointed in the same manner and by
the same body.
   (C)   Chair. The Mayor shall appoint a member as the Chairperson of the
Commission.
   (D)   Executive Director. The Mayor shall appoint an Executive Director of
the Commission on Black Men and Boys that shall be an existing, paid employee
of the City of Boston, to oversee and run the daily operations and
administration of the Commission. The Executive Director shall serve as the
advisor of the Commission and shall have the powers of a Department head with
respect to the execution of contracts and matters of personnel management
within said office. The Executive Director shall serve as a member of the
Commission, ex officio and without additional compensation, and shall have an
official vote on matters before the Commission.
   (E)   Compensation. The members of the Commission will receive stipends, as
determined by the Mayor, commensurate with their duties and/or expenses.
(CBC 1985 15-11.2; Ord. 2021 c. 11; Ord. 2022 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2024 c. 6 § 1)
15-11.3   Duties.
   The Duties of the Commission shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Advising the Mayor on issues pertaining to Black men and boys;
   (B)   Assisting the Office of the Mayor in determining budget and policy
priorities;
   (C)   Monitoring and advising City Agencies and Departments on issues
pertaining to Black men and boys;
   (D)   Designing projects and programs that promote equity for Black men and
boys which are not currently being implemented by existing City Agencies;
   (E)   Performing outreach, communication, and liaison to Black men and boys
related to community groups and organizations;
   (F)   Working with the Department of Intergovernmental Relations concerning
state and federal legislation and programs that are of concern to Black men and
boys;
   (G)   Working with all City Departments, Agencies, Commissions and Offices
to assure that Black men and boys are represented at all levels of city
government;
   (H)   Coordinating dialogues and actions in collaboration with other city
agencies on behalf of city government to issues of concern to all Black men and
boys and related organizations, including but not limited to: equity and racial
justice, economic opportunity and worker empowerment, education and youth
advancement, affordable housing and pathways to home ownership, public health
and wellness, fatherhood and families, community safety and returning citizens,
financial empowerment, and more;
   (I)   During the first year of its existence, the Commission shall hold
monthly meetings and give updates to the City Council on a quarterly basis and
shall hold regular meetings thereafter; and
   (J)   Producing a yearly report pertaining to the work of the Commission and
the progress of the city and the community to advance the status of Black men
and boys. The Commission shall submit the report to the City Clerk of the City
of Boston, who shall forward the report to the Mayor of the City of Boston and
shall file the report and include the docket on the agenda of the next-
occurring meeting of the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1985 15-11.3; Ord. 2021 c. 11; Ord. 2024 c. 6 § 1)
15-11.4   Office of Black Male Advancement.
   (A)   Established. There shall be established in the City of Boston an
office known as the Office of Black Male Advancement (hereafter the "Office")
which shall be under the charge of the Executive Director.
   (B)   Purpose. This Section is to establish an Office of Black Male
Advancement in the City of Boston to improve outcomes and reduce systemic
barriers to advancement for Black men and boys living in Boston. The services
of all City Departments, Agencies, Commissions and Offices shall be made
reasonably available to the Office for effectuating the purpose of this
Section.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Office, under the charge of the Executive
Director, shall have the powers and duties necessary to carry out the purpose
of this Section and the mission of the Commission.
   (D)   Reporting. The Office shall file with the City Clerk and post on the
Office's website data, outcome metrics, and an annual report on the work of the
Office and the progress of the city and the community to advance the purpose of
this Section.
(Ord. 2024 c. 6 § 1)
15-12   TASK FORCE TO ADDRESS LITERACY RATES IN THE CITY.
15-12.1   Establishment and Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to establish a Task Force on literacy rates
in the city whose goals shall be: to study rates of illiteracy across the city;
to develop an action plan that may be undertaken by the city in order to help
both adults and children who are not able to read or write in any language to
access education and city services, due to limited function or otherwise; and
to help boost opportunities for adults and children to learn how to read
through actionable policy and programming recommendations.
(CBC 1985 15-12.1; Ord. 2021 c. 18 § 1)
15-12.2   Composition and Term.
   (A)   The Task Force will include eight members appointed by the Mayor, as
follows:
      (1)   One representative of English for New Bostonians (“ENB”);
      (2)   One representative of the Adult Literacy Initiative or other
organization who works specifically with adults who cannot read or write;
      (3)   One representative of the commonwealth’s Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition or other organization who works with individuals who are
English language learners;
      (4)   One representative of ReadBoston or other organization who works on
literacy among early learners;
      (5)   Two representatives who are recent graduates or current BPS
students who have literacy-based lived experiences; and
      (6)   Two representatives who have adult illiteracy lived experience.
   (B)   The Task Force will include the following seven people or their
designees, ex officio:
      (1)   A member of the Boston City Council designated by the Boston City
Council President;
      (2)   Superintendent of Boston Public Schools (“BPS”);
      (3)   Director of the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Advancement (“MOIA”);
      (4)   Director of the Mayor’s Office of Workforce Development (“OWD”);
      (5)   President of Boston Public Library (“BPL”);
      (6)   Commissioner of Boston Centers for Youth and Families (“BCYF”); and
      (7)   Director of the Office of Language and Communications Access
(“OLCA”).
   (C)   The Task Force will exist for as long as it takes to provide an
accurate understanding to develop a comprehensive and usable plan which the
city can undertake to achieve the goals established in Subsection 15-12.1 for
up to five years from the founding of the Task Force.
   (D)   Members of the Task Force will elect a Chair of the Task Force every
year with a simple majority vote. Any Task Force membership removals or
vacancies shall be filled in the manner in which they were appointed.
   (E)   The Task Force will convene within the first 60 days of the effective
date of this Section and will meet periodically thereafter as required.
(CBC 1985 15-12.2; Ord. 2021 c. 18 § 1)
15-12.3   Responsibilities and Authorities of the Task Force.
   (A)   The primary responsibilities of the Task Force are to determine the
scope of illiteracy in Boston as well as to create an actionable and
coordinated plan that both boosts literacy rates amongst adults and children as
well as finds ways for the city to make it easier for people who cannot read or
write in any language to access education and city services. In the course of
their work, the Task Force may deem it necessary to, among other things:
determine the number of people in the city who cannot read or write in any
language based on demographics; make necessary distinctions between individuals
with little-to-no literacy versus individuals with some literacy capability;
identify clear deliverables and goals for boosting literacy rates in Boston;
conduct a cost analysis of providing the necessary resources to improve the
accessibility of education and city services as well as to boost literacy
rates; and generate a comprehensive and actionable plan that would sufficiently
address the goals identified in Subsection 15-12.1.
   (B)   The Task Force shall prepare annual progress reports on the status of
their work along with any necessary materials to the City Clerk, and the Clerk
shall forward the report to the Mayor of the city and shall docket the report
and include the docket on the agenda of the next-occurring meeting of the
Boston City Council. The Task Force may be called in to testify and to update
the Boston City Council on the progress of the Task Force.
(CBC 1985 15-12.3; Ord. 2021 c. 18 § 1)
15-12.4   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable, and if any provision, or
portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
will not affect the remaining provisions, which will remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 15-12.4; Ord. 2021 c. 18 § 1)
15-13   CREATION OF TASK FORCE TO ADVISE AND SUPPORT PROPOSALS FOR REPARATIONS
FOR AFRICAN AMERICANS IN THE CITY.
15-13.1   Task Force Established and Purpose.
   (A)   There shall be established in the city a Task Force, to be known as
the Task Force on the Study on City of Boston Reparations to the Descendants of
formerly enslaved Black people.
   (B)   (1)   The Task Force’s work shall include several phases, and the Task
Force shall make meaningful efforts to include community engagement with
residents and community members in each phase. The city shall engage additional
scholars and experts, as necessary, to support the Task Force during each
phase:
         (a)   Phase 1: Research and document the city’s role in and historical
ties to the African slave trade and the institution and legacies of slavery.
Phase 1 shall end no later than June 30, 2023 with the issuance of a written
report;
         (b)   Phase 2: Assess the city’s actions to date to address continued
impacts of enslavement. Phase 2 will conclude no later than December 31, 2023
with the issuance of a written report; and
         (c)   Phase 3: Make final recommendations to the city for truth,
reconciliation and reparations addressing the city’s involvement with the
African slave trade. This phase shall be completed no later than June 30, 2024
with a written report.
      (2)   To support any recommendations the report shall include:
         (a)   The role Boston played in supporting the institution of slavery;
         (b)   Forms of discrimination and racism in the public and private
sectors against freed slaves and their descendants;
         (c)   The persistent, systemic and lingering negative effects of
slavery on Boston residents who are the descendants of African slaves; and
         (d)   Any other areas required to fulfill the purpose of the task
force herein described.
      (3)   In addition, the report shall include an implementation plan for
actions to begin no later than October 1, 2024. If the task force is unable to
meet this timeline, they must notify the Mayor in writing requesting to extend
the phases.
(CBC 1985 15-13.1; Ord. 2022 c. 12)
15-13.2   Organization.
   (A)   Membership. The Mayor shall appoint no fewer than five members, who
have a connection to and understanding of the descendants of formerly enslaved
Black people in the United States. The composition of the Task Force shall
include but not be limited to people who belong to the following categories:
community organizers, research and policy experts, community elders (defined as
persons 60 years and older), a youth voice, historians or persons with
historical expertise and academics or persons with academic and institutional
knowledge. The Mayor shall designate a Chair from among the Task Force members.
The Task Force will be an independent body and be staffed by a City Department
or staff members designated by the Mayor.
   (B)   Terms. Unless determined by the Mayor, members shall serve no later
than December 31, 2024. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor. Any vacancy in
the Task Force shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment
was made. All records of the Task Force shall be public under M.G.L. Chapter
66, Section 10, the commonwealth’s Public Records Law, unless an exemption
under M.G.L. Chapter 4, Section 7 unless otherwise determined.
   (C)   Positions. Additional Task Force positions may be added as necessary
by the Chair.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Task Force will receive stipends as
determined by the Mayor commensurate with their duties and/or expenses. Any
consultant engaged to support the Task Force in achieving its goals shall be
compensated through the Mayor’s Office, in accordance with all city policies.
(CBC 1985 15-13.2; Ord. 2022 c. 12)
15-13.3   Duties and Responsibilities.
   The Task Force shall:
   (A)   In partnership with additional scholars and experts, research and
document the city’s role in and historical ties to the slave trade and the
institution and legacies of slavery;
   (B)   Assess the city’s actions to date to address continued impacts;
   (C)   Develop a community engagement process to openly and directly share
the findings and information with residents and community members; and
   (D)   Collaborate with the administration and Boston City Council to
recommend next steps for truth, reconciliation and reparations addressing the
city’s historical involvement.
(CBC 1985 15-13.3; Ord. 2022 c. 12)
CHAPTER XVI: PROHIBITIONS, PENALTIES AND PERMITS
Section
16-A1   LICENSE AND PERMIT DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION
   
16-A1.1   Failure and/or Refusal to Pay Municipal Charges
   
16-A1.2   Safety Concerns and History
16-A2   FINGERPRINTING AND CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECKS REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN
LICENSES
16-1   HEALTH
   
16-1.1   Fish
   
16-1.2   Reserved
   
16-1.3   Decayed Food
   
16-1.4   Reserved
   
16-1.4A   Bakery—Food Products, Retail Sale of
   
16-1.5   Reserved
   
16-1.6   Reserved
   
16-1.7   Permit for Catered Functions
   
16-1.8   Reserved
   
16-1.8A   Live Fowl, Farm Animals
   
16-1.9   Restraining Dogs
   
16-1.9A   Fines for Violation
   
16-1.9B   Dangerous Dogs
   
16-1.9B.1   Definitions
   
16-1.9B.2   Dangerous Dogs
   
16-1.9C   Dog Registration and Licensing
   
16-1.9D   Disposition of Fines
   
16-1.9E   Reserved
   
16-1.9F   Leasing of Licensed Dogs
   
16-1.9F.1   Purpose
   
16-1.9F.2   Definitions
   
16-1.9F.3   Prohibition
   
16-1.9F.4   Enforcement
   
16-1.9F.5   Fines
   
16-1.9F.6   Severability
   
16-1.9F.7   Effective Date
   
16-1.9G   Sale of Animals
   
16-1.9G.1   Definitions
   
16-1.9G.2   Sale of Dogs, Cats, Guinea Pigs or Rabbits by Pet Shops Prohibited
   
16-1.9G.3   Penalties
   
16-1.9G.4   Enforcement
   
16-1.9G.5   Applicability
   
16-1.9G.6   Severability
   
16-1.10   Keeping of Animals
   
16-1.10A   Dog Fouling
   
16-1.11   Manure
   
16-1.12   Removal of Manure
   
16-1.13   Reserved
   
16-1.14   Reserved
   
16-1.15   Reserved
   
16-1.16   Reserved
   
16-1.17   Reserved
   
16-1.18   Water-Closets
   
16-1.19   Reserved
   
16-1.19A   Air Pollution Prohibited; Permit
   
16-1.20   Reserved
   
16-1.20A   Reserved
   
16-1.21   Reserved
   
16-1.22   Reserved
   
16-1.23   Cesspools and Privies
   
16-1.24   Sewage and Waste Water
   
16-1.25   Drains
   
16-1.26   Reserved
   
16-1.27   Honey Bees
16-2   HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
   
16-2.1   Registration
   
16-2.2   Crying of Wares
   
16-2.3   Tobacco Products, Distribution in Public Places
   
16-2.4   Vehicles and Receptacles
   
16-2.5   Sale of Propelled Novelty Substances Prohibited
   
16-2.6   Improper Preparation of Food
   
16-2.7   Hawkers, Peddlers Selling Goods, Wares or Merchandise
16-3   RESERVED
16-4   TAKING OF SHELLFISH
   
16-4.1   Family Use and Commercial Permits
16-4A   PROHIBITED ACTS IN WETLANDS; PERMITS
16-5   FIREARMS
   
16-5.1   Firing of Cannons and Guns
16-5A   REGULATING THE SALE AND MARKETING OF REPLICA FIREARMS IN THE CITY
   
16-5A.1   Definitions
   
16-5A.2   Regulation
   
16-5A.3   Exceptions
   
16-5A.4   Enforcement
   
16-5A.5   Appeal Procedure
   
16-5A.6   Effective Date
16-5B   REGULATING REPLICA FIREARMS IN THE CITY
   
16-5B.1   Definition
   
16-5B.2   Regulation
   
16-5B.3   Enforcement
   
16-5B.4   Penalties
16-6   BONFIRES
   
16-6.1   Permits Required
16-7   BRICK-KILNS
   
16-7.1   Permits Required
16-8   INFLAMMABLE ARTICLES
   
16-8.1   Defined; Age and Marking Requirements
   
16-8.2   Sale of Certain Paints and Markers
   
16-8.3   Display of Certain Paints and Markers
   
16-8.4   Prohibiting Defacement of Property, and Possession of Certain Items
   
16-8.5   Graffiti Removal
16-9   OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE FIGHTERS AND FIRE APPARATUS
   
16-9.1   Interference Forbidden
16-10   THE MARKET LIMITS
   
16-10.1   Reserved
   
16-10.2   Obstruction to Travel
   
16-10.3   Sunday Regulations
   
16-10.4   Disorderly Conduct
   
16-10.5   Compliance with Directions
16-11   FANEUIL HALL MARKET LIMITS
   
16-11.1   Place and Hours of Sale
16-12   USE OF STREETS
   
16-12.1   Reserved
   
16-12.2   Loitering
   
16-12.2A   Display of Permits
   
16-12.3   Advertising
   
16-12.4   Merchandise to and from Second Story
   
16-12.5   Sprinkling Ashes and the like on Streets; Removal of Manure
   
16-12.6   Reserved
   
16-12.7   Reserved
   
16-12.8   Littering
   
16-12.8A   Implementation and Maintenance of a System to Retain all Shopping
Carts within a Business Establishment
   
16-12.8A.1   Purpose
   
16-12.8A.2   Definitions
   
16-12.8A.3   On-Site Retention
   
16-12.8A.4   Removal of Shopping Carts
   
16-12.8A.5   Retrieval of Shopping Carts
   
16-12.8A.6   Fines
   
16-12.8A.7   Appeal
   
16-12.8A.8   Permits
   
16-12.8A.9   Stolen Property
   
16-12.8A.10   Regulatory Authority
   
16-12.8A.11   Effective Date
   
16-12.8A.12   Severability
   
16-12.9   Litter from Vehicles
   
16-12.10   Reserved
   
16-12.11   Reserved
   
16-12.12   Reserved
   
16-12.13   Reserved
   
16-12.14   Use of Propelled Novelty Substances Prohibited
   
16-12.15   Throwing or Shooting on Streets
   
16-12.16   Snow, Slush and Ice on Sidewalks and Curb Ramps
   
16-12.17   Reserved
   
16-12.18   Reserved
   
16-12.19   Cutting of Grass
   
16-12.20   Reserved
   
16-12.21   Reserved
   
16-12.22   Reserved
   
16-12.23   Reserved
   
16-12.24   Reserved
   
16-12.25   Unlawful Games
   
16-12.26   Protection of Trees, Lamp-Post and Hydrants
   
16-12.27   Abusive Language; Soliciting in Streets
   
16-12.28   Drinking of Alcoholic Beverages in Public
   
16-12.29   Procurement of Alcoholic Beverages for Underage Individuals
   
16-12.30   The Use of Intimidation to Obtain Alcoholic Beverages
   
16-12.30A   The Use of False Identification to Obtain Alcoholic Beverages
   
16-12.31   Posting of “Warning” Notice
   
16-12.31A   Concerning Parental Responsibility for Public Consumption of
Alcoholic Beverages by Minors
   
16-12.32   Vaults Under Sidewalks
   
16-12.33   Gratings
   
16-12.34   Openings in Street
   
16-12.35   Steps
   
16-12.36   Street Openings
   
16-12.37   Prohibiting Operation of Skateboards, Roller Blades, Roller Skates
and Stunt-Type Bicycles on Certain Public Property
   
16-12.38   Gas-Powered Vehicles: Scooters, Powerboards and Mini-Motorbikes
   
16-12.38A   Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices
   
16-12.38A.1   Definition of Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device or
EPAMD
   
16-12.38A.2   Prohibition of EPAMDs
   
16-12.38A.3   Definition of Tour Operator
   
16-12.38A.4   Limited Use of EPAMDs for Tour Operations
   
16-12.38A.5   Limited Use of EPAMDs for Disabled Persons for Mobility Purposes
   
16-12.38A.6   Use of EPAMDs for Advertising
   
16-12.38A.7   Penalties
   
16-12.38A.8   Enforcement
   
16-12.38A.9   Regulatory Authority
   
16-12.38A.10   Severability
   
16-12.39   Pedicabs
   
16-12.40   Prohibiting Operation of Party Bikes
   
16-12.41   Parking in a Marked Bike Lane or Marked Shared Bike Lane
   
16-12.42   Parking or Stopping Within Any Pedestrian Safety Zone
   
16-12.43   Prohibiting the Selling, Leasing or Reserving of Public Ways
16-13   BRIDGES AND WHARVES
   
16-13.1   Rules Concerning Bridges and Wharves
   
16-13.2   Relative to the Licensing of Certain Bridges and Tunnels
16-14   RESERVED
   
16-14.1   Reserved
16-15   USE OF ROADWAY FOR VEHICLES
   
16-15.1   Horse-Drawn Vehicles
   
16-15.2   Reserved
   
16-15.3   Bells on Vehicles
   
16-15.4   Direction of Vehicles
   
16-15.5   Vehicles for Hire
   
16-15.6   Use of Protective Headgear
16-16   STREET CARS
   
16-16.1   Speed Limits
   
16-16.2   Intersections
   
16-16.3   Curves
   
16-16.4   Grades
   
16-16.5   Proximity to Roads
   
16-16.6   Joint Use of Roads
   
16-16.7   Safety Distances
   
16-16.8   Avoiding Collisions; Obeying Police Directions
   
16-16.9   Precautions; Warning Bells
   
16-16.10   Prompt Stopping
   
16-16.11   Stopping in Intersections
   
16-16.12   Spreading of Gravel, Sand and the Like
16-17   MOVING BUILDINGS AND BULKY MACHINERY
   
16-17.1   Moving Buildings
   
16-17.2   Removing Hindrances
16-18   SIDEWALKS
   
16-18.1   Use of Sidewalks
16-19   PUBLIC GROUNDS
   
16-19.1   Use of Public Grounds
   
16-19.2   Public Addresses, Vending and the Like
   
16-19.3   Permit for Use of Park Land for Demonstrations
   
16-19.4   Profanity and Other Offenses
16-20   WATER SUPPLY
   
16-20.1   Use of Water
16-21   WARD-ROOMS; FANEUIL HALL
   
16-21.1   Ward Meetings
   
16-21.2   Voter Lists
   
16-21.3   Decorations
16-22   NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
   
16-22.1   Regulation Concerning Numbering of Buildings
16-23   NOTICES AND PLACARDS
   
16-23.1   Prior Consent to Post Notices
   
16-23.2   Removal After Elections
   
16-23.3   Posting in Public Places
   
16-23.4   Reserved
16-24   JUNK AND SECOND-HAND ARTICLES
   
16-24.1   Business Hours
16-25   OBSCENE AND PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIAL
   
16-25.1   Fine for Selling
16-26   UNREASONABLE NOISE
   
16-26.1   General Prohibition and Definitions
   
16-26.2   Unreasonable Noise-Making Automobile Safety Devices
   
16-26.3   Unreasonable Noise From Automobile Safety Devices
   
16-26.4   Regulation of Construction Hours
   
16-26.5   Noise Levels at Residential Lot Lines
   
16-26.6   Disturbing the Peace
   
16-26.7   Prohibition Against Certain Sound Devices in Motor Vehicles
   
16-26.8   Prohibition Against Loud Amplification Devices in Public Ways or
Places
   
16-26.9   Prohibition Against Loud Amplification Devices in or on Residential
Premises
   
16-26.10   Enforcement
   
16-26.11   Penalties
   
16-26.12   Arrest and Seizure of Property
   
16-26.13   Exemptions
   
16-26.14   Severability
16-27   NUISANCE CONTROL
   
16-27.1   Purpose
   
16-27.2   Definitions
   
16-27.3   Mailing of Notice to Property Owners and Others
   
16-27.4   Liability for a First Response to a Gathering
   
16-27.5   Liability for a Second or Subsequent Response to a Gathering
Constituting a Public Nuisance
   
16-27.6   Enforcement
   
16-27.7   Severability
16-28   JITNEY LICENSES
   
16-28.1   Requirement
   
16-28.2   Publication and Notice
   
16-28.3   Route
   
16-28.4   Fare
   
16-28.5   Information to Passengers
   
16-28.6   Number of Passengers
   
16-28.7   Operation
   
16-28.8   Carriage of Passengers
   
16-28.9   Lighting and the Like
   
16-28.10   Conduct of Operators
16-29   OPEN-AIR THEATERS
   
16-29.1   Open-Air Projection
16-30   ABANDONMENT OF AUTOMOBILES
   
16-30.1   Abandoned, Unregistered or Uninsured Vehicles
16-31   RODENT AND INSECT PREVENTION MEASURES AT CONSTRUCTION SITES
16-32   FINES
   
16-32.1   Generally
   
16-32.2   Drinking of Alcoholic Beverages in Public, Fine
   
16-32.3   Alternative Noncriminal Disposition of Violations of Subsection 16-
1.9, 16-1.9B, 16-12.7 and 16-32.4
   
16-32.4   Enforcement of Certain Sections
   
16-32.5   Enforcement in Accordance with Massachusetts General Law
   
16-32.6   Violations; Fine Established
   
16-32.7   Enforcement of Certain Environmental Protection Ordinances
16-33   SIGNS, AWNINGS AND THE LIKE
   
16-33.1   Definitions
   
16-33.2   Issuance of Number by Appropriate Department
   
16-33.3   Inspectional Services Department
   
16-33.4   Public Works Department
   
16-33.5   Parks and Recreation Commission
   
16-33.6   Enforcement
   
16-33.7   Fine
16-34   UNLAWFUL TO TAKE REPRISAL AGAINST ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO TESTIFIES BEFORE
THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL
   
16-34.1   Reprisal Action Against Person Who Testifies Before Boston City
Council Unlawful
   
16-34.2   Complaint of Reprisal; Action by Chair of Committee
   
16-34.3   Report to Boston City Council of Reprisal; Boston City Council May
Impose Disciplinary Action
   
16-34.4   Definition
   
16-34.5   Severability
16-35   WORKPLACE SMOKING POLLUTION CONTROL ORDINANCE
   
16-35.1   Legislative Intent
   
16-35.2   Title
   
16-35.3   Purpose
   
16-35.4   Definitions
   
16-35.5   Regulation of Smoking in the Workplace
   
16-35.6   Where Smoking Not Regulated
   
16-35.7   Penalties and Enforcement
16-36   CIGARETTE SALES BY VENDING MACHINES RESTRICTED
   
16-36.1   Regulations
   
16-36.2   Enforcement
   
16-36.3   Violations and Penalties
   
16-36.4   Severability
16-37   NON-EMERGENCY REPAIR OF VEHICLES
   
16-37.1   Prohibition
   
16-37.2   Violation
16-38   PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF NEWSRACKS
   
16-38.1   Definitions
   
16-38.2   Certificate of Compliance
   
16-38.3   Installation
   
16-38.4   Maintenance
   
16-38.5   Enforcement
   
16-38.6   Abandonment
   
16-38.7   Emergency Removal
   
16-38.8   Fees
   
16-38.9   Effect on Other Laws
   
16-38.10   Severability
   
16-38.11   Initial Application Acceptance Date
   
16-38.12   Effective Date
16-39   SALE OF DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTS
   
16-39.1   Prohibition of Sale of Dangerous Instruments
   
16-39.2   Penalty
   
16-39.3   Exemption
   
16-39.4   Licensing Requirements for Stores Selling Certain Knives
16-40   LIMITING TOBACCO ACCESS BY YOUTH
   
16-40.1   Definitions
   
16-40.2   Tobacco Sales to Minors Prohibited
   
16-40.3   Enforcement
   
16-40.4   Public Education
   
16-40.5   Boston Public Health Commission Authority
16-41   REGULATING MANNER AND PLACE OF SOLICITATION
   
16-41.1   Definitions
   
16-41.2   Prohibited Acts
   
16-41.3   Enforcement
   
16-41.4   Penalties
   
16-41.5   Severability
16-42   LASER POINTERS
   
16-42.1   Definitions
   
16-42.2   Sales to Minors Prohibited
   
16-42.3   Sales Restricted
   
16-42.4   Possession Restricted
   
16-42.5   Harassment by Laser Beams in Public Prohibited
   
16-42.6   Penalty
16-43   TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
16-44   SALE OF MERCURY THERMOMETERS BANNED
   
16-44.1   Definitions
   
16-44.2   Retail Sale Prohibited
   
16-44.3   Manufacturing Prohibited
   
16-44.4   Importation Prohibited
   
16-44.5   Restriction on the Sale of Mercury Thermometers
   
16-44.6   Penalty
16-45   PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF KNIVES OR SIMILAR WEAPONS
   
16-45.1   Carrying of Weapons Prohibited
   
16-45.2   Distribution Exception
   
16-45.3   Applicability
   
16-45.4   Penalty
   
16-45.5   Severability
16-46   NONCRIMINAL DISPOSITION OF ZONING VIOLATIONS IN THE CITY
   
16-46.1   General Penalty: Noncriminal Disposition of Zoning Violations
   
16-46.2   Enforcing Person and Regulatory Authority
   
16-46.3   Violations
   
16-46.4   Enforcement, Penalties and Fines
   
16-46.5   Severability
16-47   PROHIBITING THE SALE AND/OR INSTALLATION OF A MUFFLER CUT-OUT OR BY-
PASS AND PROHIBITING CERTAIN MODIFICATIONS TO EXHAUST SYSTEMS
16-48   BOAT SLIPS AND MOORINGS
   
16-48.1   Purpose
   
16-48.2   Definitions
   
16-48.3   Harbormaster Authorization
   
16-48.4   Permits
   
16-48.5   Assignment
   
16-48.6   Fees
   
16-48.7   Decals
   
16-48.8   Application Dates
   
16-48.9   Use
   
16-48.10   Expiration
   
16-48.11   Changes
   
16-48.12   Marking on Mooring
   
16-48.13   Enforcement and Penalties
   
16-48.14   Annual Report
   
16-48.15   Boston Waterways Board
   
16-48.16   Applicability
   
16-48.17   Regulatory Authority
   
16-48.18   Severability
   
16-48.19   Implementation
16-49   IDENTIFYING JACKETS FOR VALET PARKERS
   
16-49.1   Purpose
   
16-49.2   Definitions
   
16-49.3   Prohibition
   
16-49.4   Enforcement and Penalties
   
16-49.5   Exemptions
   
16-49.6   Applicability
   
16-49.7   Regulatory Authority
   
16-49.8   Severability
   
16-49.9   Implementation
16-50   AFTER-HOURS PARTIES
   
16-50.1   Purpose
   
16-50.2   Definitions
   
16-50.3   Prohibitions
   
16-50.4   Applicability
   
16-50.5   Regulatory Authority
   
16-50.6   Severability
   
16-50.7   Implementation
16-51   CRACK PIPES
   
16-51.1   Prohibition Against Sale
   
16-51.2   Prohibition Against Possession
   
16-51.3   Penalty
   
16-51.4   Implementation
16-52   MAINTENANCE OF VACANT, FORECLOSING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
   
16-52.1   Purpose
   
16-52.2   Definitions
   
16-52.3   Registration of Vacant and/or Foreclosing Residential Properties;
Duty to Provide Written Notice of Vacant, Residential Property and/or Mortgage
Foreclosure
   
16-52.4   Maintenance Requirements
   
16-52.5   Inspections
   
16.52.6   Enforcement and Penalties
   
16-52.7   Appeal
   
16-52.8   Applicability
   
16-52.9   Regulatory Authority
   
16-52.10   Severability
   
16-52.11   Implementation
   
16-52.12   Notice
16-53   CLEANING OF COMMERCIAL COOKING HOOD AND VENTILATION SYSTEMS
   
16-53.1   Purpose
   
16-53.2   Applicability
   
16-53.3   Procedures
   
16-53.4   Penalties
   
16-53.5   Effective Date
16-54   PROHIBITION AGAINST SALVIA DIVINORUM
   
16-54.1   Sale Prohibited
   
16-54.2   Exception
   
16-54.3   Fines
   
16-54.4   Enforcement
16-55   UNPAID MUNICIPAL FINES
16-56   PENALTIES FOR VALID COMPLAINT PROBLEM PROPERTIES
16-57   PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
   
16-57.1   Purpose
   
16-57.2   Definitions
   
16-57.3   Application
   
16-57.4   Enforcement
   
16-57.5   Non-criminal Dispositions
   
16-57.6   Penalties
   
16-57.7   Remediation
   
16-57.8   Verifiable and Certified Inspection
   
16-57.9   Receivership
   
16-57.10   Reporting
16-58   OVER-THE-AIR DEVICES (“OTARD”)
   
16-58.1   Purpose
   
16-58.2   Definitions
   
16-58.3   Installations
   
16-58.4   Use and Maintenance
   
16-58.5   Removal
   
16-58.6   Unified Statement
   
16-58.7   Appropriate City Authority
16-59   PROHIBITION OF THE POSSESSION OR SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS AND
ILLICIT SYNTHETIC DRUGS
   
16-59.1   Purpose
   
16-59.2   Definitions
   
16-59.3   Prohibition of Synthetic Cannabinoids
   
16-59.4   Enforcement
   
16-59.5   Penalty
   
16.59.6   Severability
   
16-59.7   Effective Date
16-60   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
16-60.1   Recreational Vehicles
16-61   REGULATION OF LETTER GRADING OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND FOOD TRUCKS
   
16-61.1   Purpose
   
16-61.2   Definition
   
16-61.3   Requirements
   
16-61.4   Enforcement and Penalty
   
16-61.5   Appeal
16-62   ORDINANCE BANNING FACE SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY IN BOSTON
16-63   ORDINANCE ON SURVEILLANCE OVERSIGHT AND INFORMATION SHARING
   
16-63.1   Purpose
   
16-63.2   Definitions
   
16-63.3   Community Control Over Surveillance
   
16-63.4   Boston Public Schools and Boston Police Department Information-
Sharing Policy
   
16-63.5   Annual Surveillance Report
   
16-63.6   Enforcement
   
16-63.7   Severability
   
16-63.8   Effective Date and Implementation
   
16-63.9   Establishment of a Surveillance, Data and Privacy Working Group
16-64   AN ORDINANCE REGARDING TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
16-65   SAFE CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION OPERATIONS IN THE CITY
   
16-65.1   Definitions
   
16-65.2   Purpose and Scope
   
16-65.3   Responsibility for Safety
   
16-65.4   Fire Prevention Code
   
16-65.5   Site Safety Plan Affidavit Required
   
16-65.6   Site Safety Monitoring Plan Required
   
16-65.7   Site Safety Coordinator Required
   
16-65.8   Enforcement
   
16-65.9   Regulations
16-66   UNLAWFUL CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
   
16-66.1   Definitions
   
16-66.2   Purpose
   
16-66.3   Unlawful Camping on Public Property
   
16-66.4   Restrictions on Unlawful Camping During a Period when Shelter is
Unavailable
   
16-66.5   Offer of Shelter
   
16-66.6   Storage of Property
   
16-66.7   Removal
   
16-66.8   Notice to Individuals
   
16-66.9   Penalty for Violations
   
16-66.10   Reporting to Boston City Council
   
16-66.11   Severability
Editor’s note:
   For a history of many of the Sections in this Chapter, see Rev. Ord. 1961
and 1971 Supplement. See also Ord. 1972 c. 1, c. 10, c. 15; Ord. 1973 c.4; Ord.
1975 c.2.
16-A1   LICENSE AND PERMIT DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   16-A1.1   Failure and/or Refusal to Pay Municipal Charges.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to deny any application for, or to
revoke or suspend any license or permit, including renewals and transfers
thereof, issued by any City Board, Officer or Department for any person,
corporation or business enterprise who has neglected or refused to pay any
local taxes, fees, assessments, betterments or any other municipal charges, in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The Collector-Treasurer shall annually furnish to each City
Department, Board, Commission or Division, hereinafter referred to as the
licensing authority, that issues licenses or permits, including renewals and
transfers thereof, a list of any person, corporation or business enterprise,
hereinafter referred to as “the party”, that has neglected or refused to pay
any local taxes, fees, assessments, betterments or other municipal charges for
not less than a 12-month period, and that has not filed in good faith a pending
application for an abatement of such taxes or a pending petition before the
Appellate Tax Board.
      (2)   The licensing authority may deny, revoke or suspend any license or
permit, including renewals and transfers thereof, of any party whose name
appears on said list furnished to the licensing authority from the Collector-
Treasurer; provided, however, that written notice is given to the party and the
Collector-Treasurer, as required by applicable provisions of law, and that the
party is given a hearing by the licensing authority, to be held not earlier
than 14 days after the licensing authority sends said notice by regular mail to
the party. Said list shall be prima facie evidence for the denial, revocation
or suspension of said license or permit to any party. The Collector-Treasurer
shall have the right to intervene in any hearing conducted with respect to such
license or permit denial, revocation or suspension. Any findings made by the
licensing authority with respect to such license or permit denial, revocation
or suspension shall be made only for the purposes of such proceeding and shall
not be relevant to or introduced in any other proceeding at law, except for any
appeal from such license or permit denial, revocation or suspension. Any
license or permit denied, revoked or suspended under this Section shall not be
reissued, renewed or transferred until the licensing authority receives a
certificate issued by the Collector-Treasurer that the party is in good
standing with respect to any and all local taxes, fees, assessments,
betterments or other municipal charges payable to the city as of the date of
issuance of said certificate.
      (3)   Any party shall be given an opportunity to enter into a payment
agreement with the Collector-Treasurer, thereby allowing the licensing
authority to issue a certificate which indicates the conditions of the
agreement upon which the license or permit is granted, and the validity of said
license or permit shall be conditioned upon the satisfactory compliance with
said agreement. Failure to comply with said agreement shall be grounds for the
revocation or suspension of said license or permit; provided, however, that the
party be given notice and a hearing as required by applicable provisions of
law.
      (4)   The licensing authority may waive the denial, revocation or
suspension of a license or permit to a party if he or she finds there is no
direct or indirect business interest by the property owner, its officers or
stockholders, if any, or members of his or her immediate family, as defined in
M.G.L. Chapter 268A, Section 1, in the business or activity conducted in or on
said property.
   (B)   This Section shall not apply to the following licenses and permits:
open burning permits, M.G.L. Chapter 48, Section 13; temporary licenses for the
sale of articles for charitable purposes, M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section 33;
children work permits, M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 69; licenses for clubs,
societies, associations or other organizations dispensing food or beverages,
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 21E; dog licenses, M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 137;
fishing, hunting and trapping licenses, M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 12;
marriage licenses, M.G.L. Chapter 207, Section 28; and licenses for theatrical
events, public exhibitions and the like issued pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140,
Section 181.
   (C)   The city may exclude any other local license or permit from this
Section by amending this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-A1.1; Ord. 1992 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2016 c. 18 § 1)
   16-A1.2   Safety Concerns and History.
   Every Officer in charge of a Department issuing a permit is hereby
authorized to deny any application for, or revoke or suspend any permit,
including renewals, issued to any person, corporation or business entity with a
history of engaging in unsafe, hazardous or dangerous practices based on work
safety histories or concerns. Work safety histories or safety concerns shall
include information obtained by affidavit for each permit application,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration violation reports or other
information presented to or documented by the permit issuing Department.
(CBC 1985 16-A1.2; Ord. 2016 c. 18 § 2)
16-A2   FINGERPRINTING AND CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECKS REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN
LICENSES
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to deny any application for, or to
revoke or suspend any license or permit, including renewals and transfers
thereof, issued by any City Board, Officer or Department for any person who is
determined unfit for the license, as determined by the licensing authority, due
to information obtained pursuant to Subsection 11-1.8.
   (B)   The city may exclude any other local license or permit from this
Section by amending this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-A2; Ord. 2011 c. 2)
16-1   HEALTH.
16-1.1   Fish.
   (A)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 s. 250; CBC 1985 16-1.1; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 1)
   (B)   Fish for sale; requirements. No person shall have in his or her
possession with intent to sell, fish of any kind, except flounders, smelts and
other small fish, salmon and shad, until the same have been cleansed of their
entrails and other refuse parts, or fish of any kind unless they are kept in
covered stalls or fish-boxes or covered carts, which shall be clean and in good
order and well secured from the rays of the sun.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 250; CBC 1985 16-1.1; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 1)
16-1.2   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 251; CBC 1985 16-1.2; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 2)
16-1.3   Decayed Food.
   No person shall bring into the city, or have in his or her possession with
intent to sell, any decayed or damaged fruit, vegetable or animal substance,
except in accordance with a permit from the Division of Health Inspections,
Inspectional Services Department.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 252; CBC 1985 16-1.3; 1991 c. 5 § 3)
16-1.4   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (Ord. 1976 c. 11 § 2; CBC 1985 16-1.4; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 4)
16-1.4A   Bakery—Food Products, Retail Sale of.
   No person shall carry on the business of a bakery, nor sell at retail: meat,
produce, dry groceries, dairy products, frozen foods or any other food products
without a permit issued by the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional
Services Department under the authority of the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code.
(CBC 1985 16-1.4A; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 4)
16-1.5   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (Ord. 1976 c. 11 § 2; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 4)
16-1.6   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (Ord. 1977 c. 9; CBC 1985 16-1.6; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 4)
16-1.7   Permit for Catered Functions.
   Caterers who provide catering services to functions within the city and
whose establishments are not licensed by the Division of Health Inspections,
Inspectional Services Department but who are required to register with the
Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department pursuant to
the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, must have a permit from the Division of
Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department for each function for
which a registration is so required by said Code.
(Ord. 1981 c. 34; CBC 1985 16-1.7; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 5)
16-1.8   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 253; CBC 1985 16-1.8; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 6)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.8A   Live Fowl, Farm Animals.
   No person shall keep any live fowl or other farm animals, except in
accordance with a permit from the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional
Services Department.
(CBC 1985 16-1.8A; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 6) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.9   Restraining Dogs.
   No person owning or harboring a dog shall suffer or allow it to worry, wound
or attack any person, nor to be so unreasonably noisy as to disturb the peace,
nor shall such person suffer or allow it to go upon the premises of another
without the permission of the owner or occupant of such premises. No person
owning or harboring a dog shall suffer or allow it to run at large in any
street or public place in the city, nor permit it to go upon any street or
public place unless it is effectively restrained by a chain or leash not
exceeding 10 feet in length. For the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
173A, this Section shall be deemed an ordinance made under the provisions of
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 173.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 254; Ord. 1976 c. 7 § 1; CBC 1985 16-1.9) Penalty, see
Subsections 16-1.9A, 16-32.6
16-1.9A   Fines for Violation.
   Violations of Subsection 16-1.9 shall be punished as follows:
   (A)   For the first offense in a calendar year: a warning notice to the dog
owner;
   (B)   For the second offense in a calendar year: a fine of $50;
   (C)   For the third offense in a calendar year- a fine of $60; and
   (D)   For the fourth and each subsequent offense in a calendar year: a fine
of $100.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9A; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 7; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 7)
16-1.9B   Dangerous Dogs.
16-1.9B.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEARING AUTHORITY OF THE ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL UNIT. The person charged
with the responsibility of handling dog complaints in the city.
   OWNER OR KEEPER OF A DANGEROUS DOG. An individual who is the registered
owner, as well as an individual who keeps, harbors or possesses a dangerous
dog.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9B.1; Ord. 1996 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2000 c. 4 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 §§
5, 6, 8)
16-1.9B.2   Dangerous Dogs.
   (A)   (1)   A person may file a complaint in writing to the Hearing
Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation
Department that a dog owned or kept in the city is a dangerous dog; provided,
however that no dog shall be deemed dangerous:
         (a)   Solely based on growling or barking or solely growling and
barking;
         (b)   Based upon the breed of the dog; or
         (c)   If the dog was reacting to another animal or to a person and the
dog’s reaction was not grossly disproportionate to any of the following
circumstances:
            1.   The dog was protecting or defending itself, its offspring,
another domestic animal or a person from attack or assault;
            2.   The person who was attacked or threatened by the dog was
committing a crime upon the person or property of the owner or keeper of the
dog;
            3.   The person attacked or threatened by the dog was engaged in
teasing, tormenting, battering, assaulting, injuring or otherwise provoking the
dog; or
            4.   At the time of the attack or threat, the person or animal that
was attacked or threatened by the dog had breached an enclosure or structure in
which the dog was kept apart from the public and such person or animal was not
authorized by the owner of the premises to be within such enclosure including,
but not limited to, a gated fenced-in area if the gate was closed, whether
locked or unlocked; provided, however that if a person is under the age of
seven, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person was not committing
a crime, provoking the dog or trespassing.
      (2)   The Hearing Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit shall
investigate or cause the investigation of the complaint, including an
examination under oath of the complainant at a public hearing to determine
whether the dog is a dangerous dog. Based on credible evidence and testimony
presented at the public hearing, the hearing authority shall, if the dog is
complained of as a dangerous dog:
         (a)   Dismiss the complaint;
         (b)   Deem the dog a nuisance dog; or
         (c)   Deem the dog a dangerous dog.
      (3)   If the Hearing Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit deems
a dog a dangerous dog, the hearing authority shall order one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Spay or neutering;
         (b)   Microchip identification; and/or
         (c)   Behavior training.
      (4)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 157(c), the Hearing
Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit shall neither issue an order
directing that a dog deemed dangerous shall be removed from the city, nor
regulate dogs in a manner that is specific to breed.
   (B)   (1)   Once a dog has been deemed dangerous by the Hearing Authority of
the Animal Care and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department, while
on the owner’s or keeper’s property, said dangerous dog must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure of a
type meeting standards established by the Hearing Authority of the Animal Care
and Control Unit, suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and designed
to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have a minimum
dimension of 5 feet by 10 feet and must be securely enclosed. If it has no
bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded in the ground no less
than 2 feet. The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for
the dog.
      (2)   The owner or keeper shall display a sign or signs on his or her
premises facing out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a
dangerous dog on the property and location and design of which shall be
determined by the Hearing Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit. This
sign should be visible and capable of being read from a public way or within 20
feet of its placement. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a
sign with a symbol warning those who cannot read of the presence of a dangerous
dog.
      (3)   The Hearing Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit may
permit a dangerous dog to be off the owner’s or keeper’s premises if it is
muzzled and restrained by a leash or chain approved by the Hearing Authority of
the Animal Care and Control Unit not exceeding 3 feet in length and is under
the control of an adult, able-bodied person. The muzzle must be made in a
manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person or animal. No dog
designated as dangerous shall be permitted at public festivals, carnivals,
parades or similar events, without an event specific waiver from the Hearing
Authority of the Animal Care and Control Unit.
      (4)   The provisions of this Section regarding dangerous dogs shall not
apply to animals owned by Law Enforcement Agencies and used for law enforcement
purposes.
   (C)   The owner or keeper of any dangerous dog who fails to comply with the
requirements set forth in division (B) above shall be subject to a fine of $500
for a first offense, a fine of $1,000 for any subsequent offenses and all
provisions set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 157(h).
   (D)   Each day there exists a violation of any of the provisions of this
Section shall constitute and be punishable as a separate offense.
   (E)   A dog shall not be considered legally licensed, pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 140, Sections 137 and 147, unless the owner is in full compliance with
this Section.
   (F)   Compliance with the requirements of this Section shall not be a
defense to an order to euthanize a dangerous dog pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter
140, Section 157.
   (G)   The city’s Animal Control Officer shall be required to record the
breed of any dog quarantined because of biting a human being or other animal.
On October 1 of each year, the Animal Control Officer shall deliver to members
of the Boston City Council a report on the breeds of dogs that have bitten
human beings or other animals during the previous year.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9B.2; Ord. 1996 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2000 c. 4 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 15 §§
5, 6, 8; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.9C   Dog Registration and Licensing.
   (A)   All the powers and duties associated with dog registration and
licensing in the city pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140 heretofore exercised by
the Inspectional Services Department are hereby transferred to the Animal Care
and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department. All employees and
positions within the Animal Care and Control Unit of the Inspectional Services
Department shall be transferred to and within the Animal Care and Control Unit
of the Parks and Recreation Department. Each subject employee who immediately
prior to such transfer held an Office or position subject to Civil Service Laws
and Rules shall be appointed without examination or registration and shall upon
such appointment retain all rights to retirement with pension that shall or
would have accrued, and each such employee’s service shall be deemed to be
continuous to the same extent as if this transfer had not taken place.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 137, all dogs six months of
age and older in the city must be registered and licensed annually with the
Animal Care and Control Unit as established by Section 7-9.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9C; Ord. 1996 c. 8 § 6; Ord. 2000 c. 4 § 6; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 1;
Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 9; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 4) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.9D   Disposition of Fines.
   Fines collected pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection and Subsection
16-1.9A and all dog registration and licensing fees collected pursuant to
Subsection 18-1.4(F) through (J) shall be deposited into a revolving fund
within the Animal Care and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department
with disbursement at the direction of the Commissioner of Park and Recreation,
pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 44, Section 53E½, and shall be
subject to annual authorization by the Boston City Council with the approval of
the Mayor. Said fund shall be utilized as follows: to reimburse for
administrative costs to those City Agencies which enforce this Subsection and
Subsection 16-1.9 and for costs associated with licensing and registration. The
total amount which may be expended from such fund in a fiscal year shall not
exceed amounts authorized under the aforesaid Section 53E½.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9D; Ord. 1996 c. 8 § 2; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 10; Ord. 2019 c. 4 §§
5, 6)
16-1.9E   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (CBC 1985 16-1.9E; Ord. 2004 c. 4 § 1; Repealed by Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 11)
16-1.9F   Leasing of Licensed Dogs.
16-1.9F.1   Purpose.
   (A)   The purpose of dog licensing is to foster owner accountability by
ensuring that each dog is traceable to its owner. By requiring a dog to be
licensed, liability for a dog’s actions can easily be established and owners
are responsible for ensuring the safety of the pet and others. This is
especially important given that M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 155 imposes strict
liability upon the owner or keeper of a dog that causes bodily harm or property
damage. Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 173 and in order to advance the
purposes of dog owner accountability, the city has the power to further
regulate dog licensing. It is the intent of this Section to protect and
preserve public health, safety and wellness by prohibiting the leasing of
licensed dogs. The city has a duty to monitor and regulate dog ownership via
licensure. Allowing a licensed dog to be rented would create instability and
uncertainty regarding the care and treatment of the animal, presumably
resulting in aggressive and vicious conduct towards the lessee and public.
   (B)   The Animal Care and Control Unit shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to enforce this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.1; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2; Ord. 2019 c. 4 §§ 7, 8)
16-1.9F.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KEEPERSHIP. Harboring an animal with an assumption of custody, management
and control of the animal.
   LEASING. Does not include the following: temporary conveyance of Police dogs
or service animals; temporary conveyance of a dog to a research institution
licensed under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 174D for medical or scientific
purposes; temporary conveyance of a dog to a veterinarian or entity licensed
under M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 55 for medical purposes; temporary conveyance
of a dog to a kennel licensed under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 137A for the
purposes of breeding, boarding, sale, training or hunting; conveyance of a dog
by a pet business, as defined in Section 1, with the intent to permanently
transfer title of the dog at the time of conveyance; or temporary conveyance of
a dog by a pet shelter for the purposes of animal foster care or adoptions
services only; or temporary conveyance of a dog to a professional trainer/
handler.
   LEASING/RENTING. Offering, or entering into, an agreement by which an owner
or keeper of a licensed dog receives a fee in exchange for conveying the
temporary right of keepership of a licensed dog.
   PET BUSINESS. Anyone engaged in a business licensed under M.G.L. Chapter
129.
   PET SHELTER. A public animal control facility, or any facility which is
operated by any organization or individual for the purpose of protecting
animals from cruelty, neglect or abuse.
   POLICE DOG. Any dog owned by Police Departments or Police Agencies of the
commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions when such dogs are under the
direct supervision, care and control of a Police Officer.
   PROFESSIONAL HANDLER/TRAINER. Any person engaged in the breeding, training
and/or showing of another’s dog for either of the following purposes:
      (1)   Entering the dog in a show or exhibition; or
      (2)   Employing the dog in the entertainment field.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any guide dog, signal dog or other animal individually
trained to do work or perform for the benefit of an individual with a
disability, including, but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired
vision, altering individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds,
providing minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair or fetching
dropped items pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 36.104.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.2; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2)
16-1.9F.3   Prohibition.
   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Sections 137 and 173 and Subsection 16-1.9C,
no licensed dog shall be leased or rented in the city.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.3; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 9)
16-1.9F.4   Enforcement.
   The Boston Police Department and/or the Animal Care and Control Unit of the
Parks and Recreation Department shall have the authority to enforce all
violations of these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.4; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 12; Ord. 2019 c. 4 §
10)
16-1.9F.5   Fines.
   Any person or entity, except as provided by law, who rents or leases a dog
in violation of Subsection 16-1.9F and M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 80I shall be
fined $300 for the first violation, $500 for the second violation and $1,000
for subsequent violations. Each dog for lease or rent is a violation of
Subsection 16-1.9F.3. Any dog held in violation of these Sections shall be
seized or impounded by an organization or authorized agent thereof that is
authorized to seize or impound an animal pursuant to the M.G.L. Any seizure or
impoundment shall be governed by the general laws regulating the seizure of
animals, including, but not limited to, M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 104.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.5; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 13)
16-1.9F.6   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections or the application of these Sections to
any person or circumstance shall be held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the validity of the remainder of these Sections and the
applicability of such Sections to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.6; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2)
16-1.9F.7   Effective Date.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective upon passage.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9F.7; Ord. 2008 c. 6 § 2)
16-1.9G   Sale of Animals.
   For the purpose of this Subsection, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION. A not-for-profit organization that is registered
with the commonwealth’s Department of Agricultural Resources, if required,
whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue and
placement of dogs, cats, guinea pigs or rabbits into permanent homes, and which
does not obtain animals from a breeder or broker for payment or compensation.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. An animal control facility operated by a governmental entity
for the purpose of impounding seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, unwanted or
surrendered animals, or a facility operated by an individual or organization
for the same purposes under a written contract with a governmental entity, and,
if required, is registered with the commonwealth’s Department of Agricultural
Resources and which does not obtain animals from a breeder or broker for
payment or compensation.
   BREEDER. A person who maintains dogs, cats, guinea pigs or rabbits for the
purposes of breeding and selling their offspring.
   BROKER. A person who transfers dogs, cats, guinea pigs or rabbits at
wholesale for resale by another.
   FLEA MARKET. A building, structure or open area occupied by one or more
vendors, other than retail stores, for sale to the public of new or used goods
or products on a seasonal, limited or full schedule of operation.
   PET SHOP. Has the meaning provided in M.G.L. Chapter 129, Section 1. Such
definition shall not include an animal shelter or an animal rescue
organization.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.1; Ord. 2016 c. 1; Ord. 2023 c. 13 § 1)
16-1.9G.2   Sale of Dogs, Cats, Guinea Pigs or Rabbits by Pet Shops Prohibited.
   (A)   No pet shop shall display, sell, deliver, offer for sale, barter,
auction, give away, broker or otherwise transfer or dispose of a dog, cat,
guinea pig or rabbit, except that pet shop may provide space for the display of
dogs, cats, guinea pigs or rabbits available for adoption by a public animal
control agency or shelter or an animal rescue organization so long as the pet
shop receives no part of any fees associated with the display or adoption of
the animals and has no ownership interest in any of the animals displayed or
made available for adoption.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above shall not apply to a pet shop that offers for
sale guinea pigs as of the effective date of this Subsection until 90 days
thereafter unless such a pet shop:
         (a)   Expands the species of animals offered for sale, beyond those
offered for sale on the effective date of this Subsection, to include guinea
pigs; or
         (b)   Changes in ownership, location or the required business licenses
are transferred.
      (2)   A pet shop that violates the provisions outlined in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above is thereafter immediately subject to the sales
restriction in division (A) above.
   (C)   Each pet shop shall maintain records sufficient to document the source
of each dog, cat, guinea pig or rabbit the pet shop acquires for at least one
year following the date of acquisition. Such records shall be made available,
immediately upon request, to any officer of the Parks and Recreation
Department, its Animal Care and Control Unit, and/or the Boston Police
Department.
   (D)   No person shall sell, exchange, trade, barter, lease or display for a
commercial purpose any dog, cat, guinea pig or rabbit on or in any street,
public grounds, commercial parking lot, flea market or other market, except for
a dog, cat, guinea pig or rabbit displayed:
      (1)   By a shelter or animal rescue organization; or
      (2)   As part of a 4-H program or similar exhibition or educational
program.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.2; Ord. 2016 c. 1; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 11; Ord. 2023 c. 13 § 2)
16-1.9G.3   Penalties.
   Any person or entity, except as provided by law, who sells a dog, cat,
guinea pig or rabbit in violation of this Section shall be fined $300 per
violation. Each animal sold or offered for sale in violation of this Section
shall constitute a separate offense. Any animal being offered for sale or
transfer, or displayed in violation of these Sections, may be seized or
impounded.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.3; Ord. 2016 c. 1; Ord. 2023 c. 13 § 3)
16-1.9G.4   Enforcement.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Department, its Animal Care and Control Unit
and/or the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to enforce all
violations of these Sections. Any animal being offered for sale or transfer, or
displayed in violation of these Sections, may be seized or impounded unless the
enforcing Officer determines that failure to seize or impound will be
detrimental to the safety and/or health of the animal. In such cases, the
animal shall be seized.
   (B)   Animals seized pursuant to this Section will be held for a period of
seven days. The person or entity in violation of these Sections may file for an
administrative hearing to appeal the seizure within seven days of the seizure
of the animals. If, after seven days, the person or entity fails to file an
appeal, the animals shall be surrendered to the city’s Animal Care and Control.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.4; Ord. 2016 c. 1; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 12)
16-1.9G.5   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulations, rule, ordinance, order or policy, then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.5; Ord. 2016 c. 1)
16-1.9G.6   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-1.9G.6; Ord. 2016 c. 1)
16-1.10   Keeping of Animals.
   No person shall keep any animal upon any estate within the city, except in a
place that is properly fitted out for the healthful and sanitary maintenance of
that animal, nor shall any person keeping an animal allow any odor from such
animal to escape the premises so as to disturb the peaceful enjoyment of the
property of another, in addition to all other provisions set forth in M.G.L.
Chapter 140, Section 174E.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 254A; Ord. 1976 c. 7, s 2; CBC 1985 16-1.10; Ord. 2014 c.
15 § 14) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.10A   Dog Fouling.
   (A)   Duty to dispose. It shall be the duty of each person who owns,
possesses or controls a dog to remove and dispose of any feces left by his or
her dog on any sidewalk, street or other public area. It shall further be the
duty of each person who owns, possesses or controls a dog to remove and dispose
of any feces left by his or her dog on any private property neither owned nor
occupied by said person.
   (B)   Duty to possess means of removal. No person who owns, possesses or
controls such dog shall appear with such dog on any sidewalk, street, park or
other public area without the means of removal of any feces left by such dog.
Furthermore, no person who owns, possesses or controls such dog shall appear on
any private property neither owned nor occupied by said person without the
means of removal of any feces left by said dog.
   (C)   Method of removal and disposal. For the purposes of this Subsection,
the means of removal shall be any plastic bag, tool, implement or other device
carried and used for the purpose of picking up and containing such feces,
unexposed to said person and unexposed to the public. Disposal shall be
accomplished by transporting such feces to a receptacle or other place suitable
for the disposal of waste, trash or debris.
   (D)   Fines of violation. Violation of this regulation shall be punished by
a fine of $50 for each occurrence.
   (E)   Enforcement. Violation of this regulation shall be enforced in
accordance with law; provided, however, that, if simultaneously with the
issuance of a complaint hereunder, a complaint is issued pursuant to M.G.L.,
Chapter 40, Section 21D, and that complaint is disposed of pursuant to said act
and Subsection 16-32.3, the complaint issued hereunder shall be deemed disposed
of.
   (F)   Exemption. This regulation shall not apply to a dog accompanying any
handicapped person who, by reason of his or her handicap, is physically unable
to comply with the requirements of this Subsection, or any individual over 65
years of age accompanying a licensed dog.
   (G)   Severability. The provisions of this Subsection are severable; and if
any of the provisions of this Subsection shall be held unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such
court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 291; Ord. 1979 c. 34; CBC 1985 16-1.10A; Recodified by
Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 24; Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.11   Manure.
   No owner or occupant of a building shall permit any manure to be therein,
unless such building is used as a stable, or in that case permit more than two
cords of manure to accumulate or remain therein; nor shall any person permit
any manure to remain uncovered on his or her grounds outside of his or her
building, or permit his or her building or any grounds connected therewith to
be foul or unclean.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 255; CBC 1985 16-1.11) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.12   Removal of Manure.
   No person shall remove manure, or cause or suffer the same to be removed,
except in accordance with a permit from the Division of Health Inspections,
Inspectional Services Department and except in a tight vehicle with a canvas
cover so secured to the sides and ends as to prevent the manure from dropping
while being removed.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 256; CBC 1985 16-1.12; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 8) Penalty, see
Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.13   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 257; CBC 1985 16-1.13; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 9)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.14   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
   (CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 258; CBC 1985 16-1.14; Ord. 1986 c. 10 § 1; Recodified
by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 10) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.15   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 259; CBC 1985 16-1.15; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 11)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.16   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 260; CBC 1985 16-1.16; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 12)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.17   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 261; CBC 1985 16-1.17; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 13)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.18   Water-Closets.
   No person shall maintain a water-closet, vault or privy in an unwholesome,
unclean or improper place or condition.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 262; CBC 1985 16-1.18) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.19   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 263; CBC 1985 16-1.19; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 14)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.19A   Air Pollution Prohibited; Permit.
   No person shall cause the atmosphere to be polluted, as defined by the
regulations of the Air Pollution Control Commission except pursuant to a permit
issued by said Commission which permit shall be prominently displayed at the
site of said pollution.
(CBC 1985 16-1.19A; Ord. 1988 c.15 § 1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.20   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 264; CBC 1985 16-1.20; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.20A   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1985 16-1.20A; Ord. 1986 c.15 § 2; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.21   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c.13 §§ 1, 2; Ord. 1981 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1983 c. 34 §§ 2, 3, 4; CBC
1985 16-1.12; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. c. XVII, Section 17-11
16-1.22   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. 714 § 265; CBC 1985 16-1.22; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 15)
16-1.23   Cesspools and Privies.
   No person shall empty a cesspool, vault or privy, except in accordance with
a permit from the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services
Department.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 266; CBC 1985 16-1.23; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 16; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§§ 1, 2)
16-1.24   Sewage and Waste Water.
   No owner or occupant of a building or of land shall suffer sewage or waste
or stagnant water to remain in such building or upon such land. No owner or
occupant of land abutting on a private passageway and having the right to use
such passageway shall suffer any filth, waste or stagnant water to remain on
that part of the passageway adjoining such land. No person shall discharge any
waste water or water from a sink or water-closet, except through a drain into a
sewer or cesspool or in accordance with a permit from the Division of Health
Inspections, Inspectional Services Department.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 267; CBC 1985 16-1.24; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 17) Penalty, see
Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.25   Drains.
   No person shall suffer any particular drain from any building or land of
which he or she is the owner or occupant to leak or be out of repair; and no
person shall, except in accordance with a permit from the Commission of Public
Works, enter, or attempt to enter, a particular drain into a public drain or
sewer.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 268; CBC 1985 16-1.25; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 18; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§ 3)
16-1.26   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1988 c. 17 § 1; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 §§ 19, 28)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-1.27   Honey Bees.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section shall be for the regulation and
enforcement of keeping honey bees.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COLONY. A natural group of honey bees having a queen or queens.
      HIVE. A manufactured receptacle or container prepared for the use of
honey bees that includes movable frames, combs and substances deposited into
the HIVES by honey bees.
      HONEY BEE. A subset of bees in the genus Apis, primarily distinguished by
the production and storage of honey and the construction of perennial, colonial
nests out of wax.
   (C)   Registration; fee.
      (1)   Keeping of honey bees shall require registration with the
Inspectional Services Department pursuant to the regulations set forth in
division (D) below.
      (2)   The application fee shall be $25 dollars.
   (D)   Regulations.
      (1)   The maximum number of hives on any given lot or roof shall be five.
      (2)   No hive shall exceed six feet in height and 24 cubic feet in size
on any lot or roof. No hive will be placed on a roof that is not designed,
intended and permitted by ISD for access and occupancy.
      (3)   Where there is a wall, fence or similar barrier between the subject
property and adjacent property, no setback from the property line is required.
Where there is no wall, fence or similar barrier between subject property and
adjacent property, hives shall be set back five feet from the property line.
      (4)   Hives shall not be located in the front yard or in a side yard that
abuts a street in all residential and commercial zoning districts and
subdistricts.
      (5)   No hive shall be located closer than ten feet from a public
sidewalk.
      (6)   For any ground level hive that is within 20 feet of the doors and/
or windows of the principal building on an abutting lot, either of the
following conditions must exist:
         (a)   The hive opening must face away from doors and/or windows; or
         (b)   A flyway of at least six feet in height comprising of a lattice
fence, dense hedge or similar barrier must be established in front of the
opening of the hive such that the honey bees fly upward and away from
neighboring properties. The flyway shall be located within three feet of the
entrance to the hive and shall extend at least two feet in width on either side
of the hive opening.
      (7)   Hives shall be set back six feet from the edge of the roof.
      (8)   For any roof level hive that is within 20 feet of the doors and/or
windows of the principal building on an abutting lot, either of the following
conditions must exist:
         (a)   The hive opening must face away from doors and/or windows; or
         (b)   A flyway of at least six feet in height comprising of a lattice
fence, dense hedge or similar barrier must be established in front of the
opening of the hive such that the honey bees fly upward, and away from
neighboring properties, and safely secured. The flyway shall be located within
three feet of the entrance to the hive and shall extend
at least two feet in width on either side of the hive opening.
      (9)   Beekeepers shall adhere to appropriate beekeeping practices
including:
         (a)   Maintaining bee colonies in hives that are kept in good working
condition.
         (b)   Ensure a constant and adequate water source.
         (c)   Responding and taking immediate action as to any bee swarms
         (d)   Seeking to remediate any nuisance conditions.
      (10)   All beekeeping shall comply with applicable state laws and
regulations. Nothing about this Subsection is intended to waive or amend the
requirements of CBC Subsection
9-9.13 Regulating Access to Roof Areas of Buildings with Residential Units. To
the extent the provisions of this Subsection conflict, CBC Subsection
9-9.13 shall control.
   (E)   Exceptions. Any exceptions to this Subsection must be approved by
petition to the Inspectional Services Department, in a manner and form
determined by the Department. Waiver or exemption to any provision of this
Subsection shall be granted at the sole discretion of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services or designee.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Inspectional Services Department may promulgate rules and
regulations necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this
Subsection.
      (2)   Enforcement of this Subsection may be by written warning and/or
cancellation of registration, provided that this Subsection shall not preclude
the City of Boston from proceeding to restrain a violation of the terms of the
permit by injunction.
(Ord. 2024 c. 1 § 1)
16-2   HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
16-2.1   Registration.
   (A)   No person shall hawk or peddle any fruits or vegetables or any of the
articles enumerated in M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section 17 and acts in amendment
thereof or in addition thereto, until he or she has been assigned a number by
the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department and until
he or she has recorded with said Division, his or her name and residence, and
until a recent photograph of said applicant shall be presented to the Division
of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department, to be attached to his
or her license (said photograph to be a passport size—viz., 2 inch by 2 inch)
and if he or she hawks or peddles articles which are sold by weight or measure,
a certificate from the Sealer of Weights and Measures that all weights,
measures and balances to be used by him or her have been properly inspected and
sealed. The presence of unsealed weights or measures on the team, cart or
person of such hawker or peddler shall terminate permission to hawk or peddle
under such registration.
   (B)   No person shall hawk or peddle any fruits or vegetables until he or
she has obtained a license therefor from the Division of Health Inspections,
Inspectional Services Department, unless he or she is engaged in the pursuit of
agriculture or unless such articles are the product of his or her own labor or
of the labor of his or her family.
   (C)   The Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department
is hereby authorized to grant licenses to hawk or peddle fruits and vegetables
to persons 16 years of age or over who have complied with the foregoing
requirements, such licenses to be for the term of one year from the date of
issue.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to minors licensed by the
Mayor and Boston City Council.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 269; CBC 1985 16-2.1; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 20)
16-2.2   Crying of Wares.
   No person hawking, peddling, selling or exposing for sale any articles shall
cry his or her wares to the disturbance of the peace and comfort of the
inhabitants of the city, or in the neighborhood of school houses or of places
used for divine worship.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 270; CBC 1985 16-2.2)
16-2.3   Tobacco Products, Distribution in Public Places.
   No person shall, except at full retail price, in or upon any part of the
streets, parks, public grounds, public buildings and other public places within
the city, distribute any product containing tobacco or non-tobacco cigarette
products for any commercial purpose.
(Ord. 1984 c. 22; CBC 1985 16-2.3)
16-2.4   Vehicles and Receptacles.
   No hawker or peddler shall carry or convey articles enumerated in M.G.L.
Chapter 101, Section 17 and acts in amendment thereof or in addition thereto,
in a manner tending to injure or disturb the public health or comfort, or
except in vehicles or receptacles which are neat and clean and do not leak, and
which have printed on them in letters and figures at least 2 inches in height
the name of the person selling and the number given him or her by the Division
of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department and which are approved
monthly by the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services
Department.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 271; CBC 1985 16-2.4; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 21)
16-2.5   Sale of Propelled Novelty Substances Prohibited.
   No person shall in or about any part of the streets, parks, public grounds,
public buildings or other public places sell or expose for sale any toy,
amusement or novelty product fitted to propel, by compressed air or gas, any
substance primarily intended for amusement or decoration, in the nature of
“liquid string”, so-called.
(CBC 1985 16-2.5; Ord. 1994 c. 12 § 1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-2.6   Improper Preparation of Food.
   (A)   In the city, manufacturing, preparing, handling, serving and/or
distributing food from any vehicle and/or pushcart and/or by any hawker,
peddler or like transient vendor, as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 101, without the
use of sanitary gloves, shall be considered unsanitary or unhealthful
conditions in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 305A.
   (B)   This Section shall apply only to “Ready to Eat Food” as defined in the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 590.00.
   (C)   Sanitary gloves shall be used in the following manner: a new pair
shall be worn for each transaction.
(CBC 1985 16-2.6; Ord. 2000 c. 1)
16-2.7   Hawkers, Peddlers Selling Goods, Wares or Merchandise.
   No hawker or peddler may sell or barter or carry for sale or barter or
expose therefor any goods, wares or merchandise, except as permitted in this
chapter or by M.G.L. Chapter 101, Sections 14 and 17 and Acts in amendment
thereof or in addition thereto.
(CBC 1985 16-2.7; Ord. 2008 c. 4) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-3   RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 272; CBC 1985 16-3; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 22)
16-4   TAKING OF SHELLFISH.
16-4.1   Family Use and Commercial Permits.
   (A)   Applications; qualifications. There shall be granted by the Boston
City Council “Family Use” Shellfish Permits and “Commercial Use” Shellfish
Permits. A “Family Use” Shellfish Permit may be granted upon written
application by any inhabitant of the commonwealth; but a “Commercial Use”
Shellfish Permit shall be granted only upon written application by an
inhabitant of the city who shall have been such for not less than one year next
preceding the making of such application; provided, however, that, at such
times as the Boston City Council shall deem the number of “Commercial Use”
Shellfish Permits so granted to be insufficient for the proper working of the
shellfish areas in the city, a “Commercial Use” Shellfish Permit may be granted
upon the written application by any inhabitant of the commonwealth. No
application for a “Family Use”, or for a “Commercial Use” Shellfish Permit
shall be denied except for good cause.
   (B)   Conditions of permit. Every “Family Use”, and every “Commercial Use”
Shellfish Permit, shall be upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The permit shall not be transferable;
      (2)   The permit shall expire in accordance with law and, prior to such
expiration, may be terminated by revocation in accordance with law;
      (3)   The holder thereof shall at all times conform to all applicable
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations;
      (4)   The holder thereof shall not take shellfish from any area
determined under M.G.L. Chapter 130, Section 74 to be contaminated except in
accordance with a permit granted under M.G.L. Chapter 130, Section 75; and
      (5)   The holder thereof shall at no time during the period in any year
beginning May 15 and ending September 15 take any shellfish from a beach area.
   (C)   Revocation of permit; transferability. Any “Family Use” or “Commercial
Use” Shellfish Permit may, at any time, after due notice and hearing, be
revoked by the Boston City Council for any breach of condition or other good
cause. No “Family Use” or “Commercial Use” Shellfish Permit shall be
transferable. All such permits, unless sooner revoked, shall be valid for the
calendar year in which issued.
   (D)   Area permitted. Any inhabitant of the commonwealth holding a “Family
Use” Shellfish Permit granted under division (A) above may take, for his or her
own family use, shellfish from the following area in the city, to wit; the
flatland coastal waters lying within the territorial limits of the city and
easterly of a line drawn from Wind Mill Point in the Town of Hull to the
southeasterly point of Deer Island and through Deer Island to Point Shirley,
except the shores of Lovell’s, Gallup’s and George’s Island; provided, however,
that no shellfish shall be taken from said area of a size or at a season
prohibited by law; and provided, further, that the amount taken for any family
shall not exceed in any one week one bushel of any or all kinds of shellfish;
and provided, further, that no shellfish shall be taken from so much of said
area as shall, from time to time, be determined under M.G.L. Chapter 130,
Section 74 to be contaminated except in accordance with a permit granted under
M.G.L. Chapter 130, Section 75.
   (E)   Commercial use prohibited area. Except as otherwise provided in
division (D) above, no person shall take any kind of shellfish within the city
unless he or she holds a “Commercial Use” Shellfish Permit granted under
division (A) above. No shellfish shall be taken for commercial purposes from
the area described in division (D) above.
   (F)   Permits referred to Clerk of Committees. Every application for a
permit under this Section shall be referred to the Clerk of Committees of the
Boston City Council who shall cause the same to be placed upon the agenda of
the Council meeting next following with a report recommending that a permit be
granted, unless the Clerk believes that the application contains a false
statement, or that concerns of the public good require another action be taken,
in either of which event he or she shall make report to the Council together
with his or her recommendations.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 273; Ord. 1979 c. 5; Ord. 1981 c. 16, s. 1; CBC 1985 16-
4.1)
16-4A   PROHIBITED ACTS IN WETLANDS; PERMITS.
   No person shall, in or near a wetland, perform any act which requires a
permit under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 131, Section 40 and regulations
issued thereunder except pursuant to a permit issued by the Conservation
Commission, which permit shall be prominently displayed at the site of said
activity. In addition to those persons authorized to enforce this Subsection
under Subsection 16-32.4, this Subsection shall be enforced by such persons as
the Conservation Commission may designate.
(CBC 1985 16-4A; Ord. 1988 c. 15 § 2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-5   FIREARMS.
16-5.1   Firing of Cannons and Guns.
   No person shall fire or discharge a cannon, gun, fowling-piece or firearm,
within the limits of the city, except at a military exercise or review
authorized by the military authority of the commonwealth or by the Boston City
Council or Mayor of the city, or in the lawful defense of the person, family or
property of a citizen; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply
to persons engaged in target practice on a range or other premises licensed to
be used for such purpose by the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 274; CBC 1985 16-5.1)
16-5A   REGULATING THE SALE AND MARKETING OF REPLICA FIREARMS IN THE CITY.
16-5A.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, or his or
her designee.
   DEPARTMENT. The Boston Police Department.
   MARKET. To display for sale.
   REPLICA FIREARM. Any toy, imitation or facsimile pistol, revolver, shotgun,
rifle, air rifle, BB gun, pellet gun, machine gun or other similar simulated
weapon which because of its color, size, shape or other characteristics, can
reasonably be perceived to be a real firearm from which a shot or bullet can be
fired and which, pursuant to Subsection 16-5A.4, has been determined to pose a
threat to public safety.
   SELL. To exchange or deliver.
      (1)   For money or its equivalent; or
      (2)   As a promotion or an inducement to buy.
(Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 1 [A]; CBC 1985 16-5A.1)
16-5A.2   Regulation.
   Except as provided in Subsection 16-5A.3, no person or entity shall sell or
market any replica firearm in the city.
(Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 1 [B]; CBC 1985 16-5A.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-5A.4
16-5A.3   Exceptions.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sale of replica firearms shall be
permitted if the sale of such replica firearms is solely for purposes of or for
transportation in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
(CBC 1985 16-5A.3; Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 1 [C])
16-5A.4   Enforcement.
   (A)   The Commissioner shall identify those replica firearms which he or she
deems to pose a threat to public safety and shall make a list thereof. Such
list shall include, where available, the following information: the product
name, the manufacturer and the model number. The Commissioner shall post the
list in the Department and shall make available copies thereof to the general
public. The Commissioner shall update the list, from time to time, as he or she
deems warranted. Any individual may provide information to the Commissioner
regarding replica firearms to be added to the list.
   (B)   Any person who observes the sale or marketing of a replica firearm
which he or she believes to be a violation of this Section may register a
written or oral complaint with the Department. A Boston Police Officer, in
response to each complaint, shall investigate the complaint forthwith in person
and determine whether there is such a violation.
   (C)   Any Boston Police Officer who observes the sale or marketing of a
replica firearm which he or she believes to be a violation of this Section
shall investigate forthwith and determine whether there is such a violation.
   (D)   (1)   If a Boston Police Officer determines that there is a violation
of this Section, he or she shall order the individual or entity to remove
immediately from sale or marketing all the replica firearms found to be in
violation. In addition, the Department shall impose the following penalties on
the individual or entity violating the Section:
         (a)   A written citation or warning for the first violation;
         (b)   A $100 fine for the second violation; and
         (c)   A $200 fine for the second and any subsequent violations.
      (2)   For purposes of penalties to be imposed under this Section, if a
Boston Police Officer determines that a sale or marketing of replica firearms
has occurred, that determination shall constitute one violation, regardless of
the number of replica firearms involved. A Boston Police Officer shall return,
unannounced, to the site of the violation within the 30-day period following
the determination of a violation to ensure that the individual or entity has
not resumed the sale or marketing of replica firearms.
(CBC 1985 16-5A.4; Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 1 [D])
16-5A.5   Appeal Procedure.
   Any individual who is aggrieved by an action taken by a Boston Police
Officer under this Section may, within ten days of such action, file an appeal,
in writing, to the Commissioner. After notice to such individual, the
Commissioner shall hold a hearing, after which he or she shall issue a decision
in which he or she affirms, annuls or modifies an action taken by a Boston
Police Officer, giving his or her reasons therefor. The Commissioner shall send
the decision to the individual by first class mail within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be a final administrative decision. The individual
shall have 30 days from the date of the written decision to seek judicial
review in the Suffolk County Superior Court.
(CBC 1985 16-5A.5; Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 1 [E])
16-5A.6   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect 30 days after enactment.
(CBC 1985 16-5A.6; Ord. 1988 c. 1 § 2)
Editor’s note:
   This Section was enacted on April 15, 1988.
16-5B   REGULATING REPLICA FIREARMS IN THE CITY.
16-5B.1   Definition.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REPLICA FIREARM. Any toy, imitation, facsimile or replica pistol, revolver,
shotgun, rifle, air rifle, B-B gun, pellet gun, machine gun or other similar
simulated weapon which, because of its color, size, shape or other
characteristics, can reasonably be perceived to be a real firearm capable of
firing a bullet or other projectile.
(CBC 1985 16-5B.1; Ord. 2015 c. 10 § 1)
16-5B.2   Regulation.
   No person shall sell, offer to sell, possess, use, display or give away, any
replica firearm on a public property unless:
   (A)   The entire exterior surface of the imitation firearm is colored white,
bright red, bright orange, bright yellow, bright blue, bright pink or bright
purple, either singly or as the predominant color in combination with other
colors in any pattern;
   (B)   The imitation firearm is constructed entirely of transparent or
translucent materials which permits unmistakable observation of the imitation
firearm’s complete contents;
   (C)   The barrel of the imitation firearm, other than the barrel of a water
gun, is closed with a blase orange plug, permanently affixed, of the same
material of which the imitation firearm is made, for a distance of not less
than ½ inch from the front end of said barrel;
   (D)   The imitation firearm had legibly stamped thereon, the name of the
manufacturer or some trade name, mark or brand by which the manufacturer can be
readily identified; and
   (E)   The imitation firearm does not have a laser pointer attached.
(CBC 1985 16-5B.2; Ord. 2015 c. 10 § 1)
16-5B.3   Enforcement.
   (A)   If any individual under 18 years of age is found with a replica
firearm by a member of the Boston Police Department, the Officer shall contact
his or her parent or guardian to inform them that the individual has been found
with a replica firearm on public property. Parents or guardians shall be
informed that they will be able to pick up the replica firearms at the district
station after 24 hours. The Officer shall confiscate the replica firearm and
bring it to the district station for holding.
   (B)   If the individual is over 18 years of age, the Officer shall
confiscate the replica firearm(s) and inform the individual that they can pick
the item(s) up at the district station after 24 hours.
(CBC 1985 16-5B.3; Ord. 2015 c. 10 § 1)
16-5B.4   Penalties.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this Section in a
second or subsequent instance shall forfeit the weapon, contraband or dangerous
device giving rise to the violation of such Section and be subject to a fine of
$50.
(CBC 1985 16-5B.4; Ord. 2015 c. 10 § 1)
16-6   BONFIRES.
16-6.1   Permits Required.
   No person shall make a bonfire or other fire in the open air on any wharf or
street within the city, except in accordance with a permit from the Fire
Commissioner.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 275 CBC 1985 16-6.1)
16-7   BRICK-KILNS.
16-7.1   Permits Required.
   No person shall erect, make or fire, or cause to be erected, made or fired,
within the city, a brick-kiln or lime-kiln, except in accordance with a permit
from the Fire Commissioner.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 276; CBC 1985 16-7.1)
16-8   INFLAMMABLE ARTICLES.
16-8.1   Defined; Age and Marking Requirements.
   No article fabricated from cellulose nitrate or other similarly inflammable
substance shall be sold to any person under age 16 nor shall any such article
be sold to any person over said age unless conspicuously marked with the words
“HIGHLY INFLAMMABLE - KEEP AWAY FROM FLAME” in letters of boldface type not
less than inch in height.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 277; CBC 1985 16-8.1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-8.2   Sale of Certain Paints and Markers.
   No person shall within the city sell, display, expose or keep for sale any
aerosol spray paint can, nor any marker containing a fluid which is not water-
soluble and which has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface in
excess of ½ inch, unless at the point of display or sale there is posted a sign
with letters not less than 1½ inches in height bearing the following words:
“SALE OF SPRAY PAINT AND BROAD INDELIBLE MARKERS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN AND
THE UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF PAINTS AND SUCH MARKERS BY PERSONS UNDER
EIGHTEEN IS PUNISHABLE BY A THREE HUNDRED DOLLAR FINE”, nor shall any person
sell or deliver any aerosol spray paint, nor any marker containing a fluid
which is not water-soluble and which has a point, brush, applicator or other
writing surface in excess of ½ inch to any person under 18 years of age or to
any person of whatever age who refuses to submit for inspection if requested a
driver’s license, liquor purchase identification or other identification to
establish the age of such person, nor shall any person being under the age of
18 purchase, conceal or remove from the premises such items; providing that
nothing herein shall prevent the parent, guardian, employer or teacher of such
a minor person from delivering such items to a minor intending the same to be
lawfully used.
(CBC 1985 16-8.2; Ord. 1986 c. 10 § 2; Ord. 1994 c. 14 § 1)
16-8.3   Display of Certain Paints and Markers.
   (A)   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol spray paint or any marker containing a
fluid which is not water-soluble and which has a point, brush, applicator or
other writing surface in excess of ½ inch shall store or cause such aerosol
spray paint or markers to be stored in an area continuously observable by
employees of said retail commercial establishment during the regular course of
business.
   (B)   In the event a commercial retail establishment is unable to store such
aerosol spray paint or markers in an area as provided in this Section, as an
alternative such aerosol spray paint or markers, shall be stored in an area not
accessible to the public in the regular course of business without employee
assistance, pending the lawful sale or disposition of such aerosol spray paint
or markers.
(CBC 1985 16-8.3; Ord. 1994 c. 14 § 3)
16-8.4   Prohibiting Defacement of Property, and Possession of Certain Items.
   (A)   No person shall, in or upon any public way, street, alley, park,
playground, school, public building, public structure, wall, fence, post, sign,
rock, monument, gravestone, tablet, public motor vehicle or other public place
or property within the city nor in or upon any private estate within the city,
without the permission of the owner or person in charge thereof having first
been obtained, nor in any way or manner otherwise prohibited paint, mark,
scratch, etch, inscribe, injure, mar, destroy, tag, affix/apply a sticker to or
in any way deface such place or property. No person under 18 years of age,
without such permission, shall carry or use:
      (1)   Paint of any type; or
      (2)   A non-water-soluble marker with a point, brush or applicator with a
width exceeding ½ inch.
   (B)   Each and every painting, mark, scratch, etching, inscription, injury,
mar, destruction, tag, sticker or defacement shall be considered a separate and
distinct violation of this Section. Each and every violation of this Section
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of $300.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 258; CBC 1985 16-8.5; Ord. 1986 c. 10 § 1; Recodified by
Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 10; Ord. 1994 c. 14 § 2; Ord. 2007 c. 2 §§ 1, 2)
16-8.5   Graffiti Removal.
   (A)   Purpose. These Sections require property owners to remove graffiti
from their property within 30 days of knowledge of the graffiti. The city
currently provides a “Graffiti Busters” Program wherein the city, at its
expense, removes graffiti from public places and privately owned properties
upon written request. In order to afford some property owners an opportunity to
share the costs associated with the remediation of this form of vandalism, a
property owner may substitute participation in the Graffiti Busters Program for
his or her removal of local graffiti in order to satisfy the requirements of
this Section. This Section does not seek to punish victims of graffiti;
instead, it seeks to remove the blight of tagging from the city and encourages
victims of graffiti to use the city’s Graffiti Busters Program.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Boston.
      GRAFFITI. The intentional painting, marking, scratching, coloring,
tagging or other defacement of any public or private property without the prior
written consent of the owner.
      GRAFFITI BUSTERS. An initiative of the Property Management Department of
the city to remove graffiti.
      OWNER. Any person who owns, manages or controls any land, structure,
fixture or personal property (including, but not limited to, dumpsters).
      PERSON. Any individual, business or entity.
   (C)   Removal of graffiti. Each and every owner shall remove graffiti from
real and personal property within 30 calendar days of the time the owner knows
or reasonably should have known, either directly or through an owner’s agent,
of the presence of graffiti.
   (D)   Substitution and exemption. 
      (1)   The city currently provides a Graffiti Busters program wherein the
city, at its expense, removes graffiti from public spaces and from privately
owned properties upon request. An owner may satisfy the owner’s requirements
under this Section through participation in Graffiti Busters; provided that the
owner satisfies all of the requirements of the program.
      (2)   An owner may be exempt from the requirement to remove graffiti
under this Section upon demonstration that:
         (a)   Graffiti Busters is no longer in operation; and
         (b)   The owner lacks the financial capacity to remove the graffiti.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties. The Inspectional Services Department, the
Public Works Department and the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to enforce the provisions of this Subsection. Unless otherwise
specified in these Sections, a violation of this Subsection may be subject to a
fine of $100 for the first offense and $200 for any second and/or subsequent
offense. The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to
enforce this Section.
   (F)   Applicability. If any provision of this Section imposes greater
restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law,
special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy then the provisions
of this Section shall control.
   (G)   Regulatory authority. The Boston Police Department, the Property
Management Department and the Inspectional Services Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce this Section.
   (H)   Severability. If any provision of this Section shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
   (I)   Implementation. The provisions of this Section shall be effective
immediately upon passage and all provisions shall be enforced immediately but
no monetary fine shall be imposed pursuant hereto until 30 days after passage.
(CBC 1985 16-8.5; Ord. 2005 c. 8; Ord. 2014 c. 1 § 2)
16-9   OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE FIGHTERS AND FIRE APPARATUS.
16-9.1   Interference Forbidden.
   No person shall obstruct any member of the Fire Department in the discharge
of his or her duties, or willfully interfere with any engine or other apparatus
used by members of the Fire Department in the discharge of their duties.
(CBC 1975; Ord. T14 § 278; CBC 1985 16-9.1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
16-10   THE MARKET LIMITS.
16-10.1   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC Ord. 1975 Ord. T14 §§ 279; CBC 1985 16-10.1; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 §
23; further repealed by Ord. 1992 c. 7 § 4)
16-10.2   Obstruction to Travel.
   No person shall, within any market limits, so occupy or obstruct any
sidewalk as not to leave a clear and direct passage for travellers thereon; or
so place or stop any vehicle abreast of, or near to, any other vehicle as not
to leave a clear and direct passage for vehicles.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 280; CBC 1985 16-10.2; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 23; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§ 4)
16-10.3   Sunday Regulations.
   No person shall, within any market limits, permit any box, cask or other
receptacle, or any vehicle, or any horse or other beast, to remain in a street
or sidewalk on the Lord’s day, except in the evening and in a place assigned by
the Superintendent of Markets or his or her deputies.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 281; CBC 1985 16-10.3; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 23; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§ 4)
16-10.4   Disorderly Conduct.
   No person shall, within any market limits, play any game, lie down, sleep or
behave in a noisy, disorderly or riotous manner, or scuffle, or throw any
missile or thing whatsoever.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 282; CBC 1985 16-10.4; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 23; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§ 4)
16-10.5   Compliance with Directions.
   No person shall, within any market limits, neglect or refuse to obey or
comply with any reasonable direction of the Superintendent of Markets, or his
or her deputies, or any Police Officer.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 283; CBC 1985 16-10.5; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 23; Ord. 1992 c. 7
§ 4)
16-11   FANEUIL HALL MARKET LIMITS.
16-11.1   Place and Hours of Sale.
   No person shall, within the Faneuil Hall Market limits, sell or expose for
sale goods, wares or merchandise in any place other than that assigned by the
Superintendent of Markets, or his or her deputies, and except during the hours
for keeping open the market prescribed by the Superintendent of Markets.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 284; CBC 1985 16-11.1)
16-12   USE OF STREETS.
16-12.1   Reserved
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 285; CBC 1985 16-12.1; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 26)
16-12.2   Loitering.
   No person shall saunter or loiter in a street in such a manner as to
obstruct or endanger travellers or in a manner likely to cause a breach of the
peace or incite to riot; but nothing in this Section shall be construed to
curtail, abridge or limit the right or opportunity of any person to exercise
the right of peaceful persuasion guaranteed by M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 24
or to curtail, abridge or limit the intendment of any statute of the
commonwealth.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 286; CBC 1985 16-12.2)
16-12.2A   Display of Permits.
   Every person occupying any property owned by, or in control of, the city, or
any Officer, Board or Agency thereof, for any purpose requiring a license or
permit issued by the city shall have any and all such valid licenses and
permits posted and clearly visible at all times during such occupancy. Within
24 hours following the expiration of such occupancy, the license or permit
holder shall remove the license or permit from its posting.
(CBC 1985 16-12.2A; Ord. 1986 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 15 § 8; Ord. 2016 c. 21 §
2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.3   Advertising.
   (A)   Distribution of advertising and vehicles. Except in accordance with a
permit from the Commissioner of Public Works no person shall, for the purpose
of advertising goods, wards or merchandise for sale, while on foot in any
street, distribute to persons in any street any handbills, cards, circulars or
papers other than newspapers, nor shall any person having the control of any
vehicle used principally for advertising permit such vehicle to operate in any
street north and east of Massachusetts Avenue. The Commissioner of Public Works
shall establish, with respect to such advertising matter, such uniform rules
governing the size of showcards, placards, handbills, cards, circulars and
papers other than newspapers which may be distributed in the street as shall be
reasonably necessary to prevent littering or other hazard to public safety.
Each permit issued hereunder shall contain a copy of the rules relating thereto
and shall be limited by its terms to the authorization of conduct permitted
thereby and otherwise legal. No permit shall be required nor shall this Section
operate to affect, interfere with or in any way abridge the right of persons on
the street to carry or distribute non-commercial handbills, cards, circulars or
papers other than newspapers.
   (B)   Free-standing signs. No business establishment shall, for the purpose
of advertising their own goods, wares, services or merchandise for sale,
display any free-standing sign on the public walkway located outside the
business unless the free-standing sign is in compliance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Commonwealth Architectural Access Board Regulations to ensure
accessibility and prevent interference with public travel;
      (2)   The sign does not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in dimension;
      (3)   The sign is not adhered or attached to any structures or fixtures;
      (4)   The sign is constructed of weather resistant material;
      (5)   The sign is maintained in good condition;
      (6)   The sign is placed on the public walkway only during the hours of
operation of the related business;
      (7)   The sign identifies the name, address and telephone number of the
business establishment and owner of the sign, if different;
      (8)   The sign displays content limited to the business establishment’s
goods, wares, services or merchandise for sale at the location of the sign; and
      (9)   The sign does not display advertisement of alcohol or tobacco
products.
   (C)   Penalties. The Commissioner of Public Works shall be authorized to
remove any free-standing signs not in compliance with Boston Code 16-12.3(b).
   (D)   Effective. This Section shall be effective upon passage in order to
establish a Pilot Program relating to free-standing signs. The provisions of
divisions (B) and (C) above shall expire one year after passage.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 287; CBC 1985 16-12.3; Ord. 2015 c. 11; Ord. 2016 c. 17 §
1; Ord. 2018 c. 2)
16-12.4   Merchandise to and from Second Story.
   No person shall, except in accordance with a permit from the Commissioner of
Public Works, raise into or lower from, the second or any higher story of a
building, over any portion of a street, any article of merchandise.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 288; CBC 1985 16-12.4)
16-12.5   Sprinkling Ashes and the Like on Streets; Removal of Manure.
   No person shall, except in accordance with a permit from the Commissioner of
Public Works, or as provided in Subsection 16-2.16, sprinkle, scatter, put or
place any ashes, cinders, earth, dirt, gravel, sawdust, salt or mixture of
salt, in or upon a street, or without such permit remove any manure or dirt
from any street.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 289; CBC 1985 16-12.5) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.6   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 290; CBC 1985 16-12.6; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 27)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.7   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 291; CBC 1985 16-12.7; Ord. 1979 c. 34; Recodified by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 24) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.8   Littering.
   No person shall, in or upon any way, street, alley or other public place
within the city, nor in or upon any estate within the city, whether such person
is in or upon a vehicle or on foot, deposit, drop or throw, and suffer to
remain there, any filth, rubbish, litter so-called or any other substance,
without the permission of the owner or person in charge thereof, nor in any way
or manner otherwise prohibited.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 292; CBC 1985 16-12.8; Ord. 1986 c. 1 § 1) Penalty, see
Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.8A   Implementation and Maintenance of a System to Retain all Shopping
Carts within a Business Establishment.
16-12.8A.1   Purpose.
   These Sections require business establishments utilizing shopping carts or
similar devices and having more than 20 shopping carts on-site to install and
maintain a system to retain the shopping carts within the property boundaries
of the business establishment. The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department, in accordance with the powers and duties delineated in Subsection
9-9.1, is authorized to implement and enforce these Sections, and the
Commissioner of the Public Works Department, in accordance with the powers and
duties delineated in Subsection 11-6.1, is authorized to implement and enforce
these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.1; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, a grocery store,
supermarket, drugstore, pharmacy, dry goods store, department store, discount
store, variety store or other retail establishment which supplies 20 or more
shopping carts for the use of its customers.
   COMMISSIONER OF INSPECTIONAL SERVICES. The Commissioner of the Inspectional
Services Department, or his or her designee or Agent.
   COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Commissioner of the Public Works
Department or his or her designee or Agent.
   ISD. The Inspectional Services Department or its successor.
   OWNER. The owner of a business establishment if it is owner-operated or the
manager of a business establishment if it is not owner-operated.
   PARKING LOT. Any parcel of land owned, leased or otherwise under the
direction and control of the owner and used for parking motor vehicles related
to the daily operations of the business establishment and shall include the
areas of ingress and egress.
   PERMANENT IDENTITY TAG. A tag, label, plate or other form of identification
that is affixed to a shopping cart and is designed to be removed/removable only
by the business establishment. The PERMANENT IDENTITY TAG shall state the name
of the business establishment, the address of the business establishment and
the telephone number of the business establishment. The name, address and
telephone number on the PERMANENT IDENTITY TAG shall be of the neighborhood
business establishment rather than a state, regional or national headquarters,
except that business establishments using a total of more than 350 shopping
carts at more than two locations within the city may place a central telephone
number on the permanent identity tag as long as that telephone number is within
the 617 area code.
   PWD. The Public Works Department or its successor.
   SHOPPING CART or CART. Includes, but is not limited to, that type of mobile
vehicle used for transportation and portage by human propulsion of goods or
merchandise in and about markets, stores, shops, shopping centers, malls and
other business establishments.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.2; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.3   On-Site Retention.
   (A)   Each and every shopping cart utilized by a business establishment
shall have affixed thereto a permanent identity tag. A first violation of this
Section shall be subject to a warning, and each subsequent violation of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of $20. Each cart not in compliance with
this Subsection shall be considered a separate violation.
   (B)   Each and every business establishments shall implement and maintain a
system to retain all shopping carts within the property boundaries of the
business establishment including its parking lot. The business establishment
shall provide signage in a conspicuous location on the premises which clearly
notifies shopping cart users of the specific retention system in place and how
the retention system operates.
   (C)   Each method included in this Subsection shall be considered to be an
example of an on-site retention method complying with these Sections. If the
business establishment has a method for retention that is not delineated as an
example herein, then an owner may submit a plan to the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services that satisfies the intent of these Sections to retain
shopping carts on the premises of the business establishment and/or its parking
lot or to ensure the immediate retrieval of shopping carts outside of the
business establishment and/or its parking lot; no plan submitted by an owner to
the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall be valid until approved in
writing by the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. Examples of methods and/
or plans are as follows:
      (1)   A physical barrier, such as bollards, restricting shopping carts to
a portion of the exterior of the business establishment, but physical barriers
shall not interfere with fire lanes, handicap access or similar building
features;
      (2)   A protruding vertical arm, or other similar or similarly-
functioning device, attached to the cart which prevents the cart from being
removed from the interior of the business establishment;
      (3)   A system, which may be mechanical in nature, requiring the cart
user to remit collateral, including, but not limited to, a returnable monetary
deposit to use a shopping cart; the collateral shall be reasonable in scope and
shall not unreasonably deter the use of the cart but instead encourages the
user’s return of the cart; the collateral shall be returned to the user upon
the user’s return of the cart;
      (4)   A wheel-locking mechanism installed on the cart that is commonly
used in conjunction with an electronic barrier along the perimeter of a
business establishment and which mechanism is activated upon the cart’s
approach or passing through the electronic barrier;
      (5)   An attendant or attendants whose sole responsibility is to manage
and/or return the business establishment’s shopping carts from the exterior
premises of the business establishment and areas immediately adjacent thereto
to the interior premises of the business establishment or another exterior area
of the business establishment dedicated to the containment of shopping carts;
and
      (6)   Other similar methods or plans submitted by an owner for the
approval of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services which would satisfy the
intent of these Sections to retain shopping carts on the premises of the
business establishment and/or its parking lot or to ensure the immediate
retrieval of shopping carts outside of the business establishment and/or its
parking lot.
   (D)   No business establishment shall allow shopping carts to congregate or
“stack up” in such a manner as to impede ingress to or egress from the business
establishment or any public or private way adjacent to the business
establishment.
   (E)   Prior to the close of each business day, every business establishment
shall collect and secure its shopping carts on its premises, including its
parking lot. This action shall be commenced no sooner than 15 minutes prior to
the close of each business day.
(CBC 1985 16-8A.3; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.4   Removal of Shopping Carts.
   (A)   Any unattended shopping cart found outside the perimeter of a business
establishment or its parking lot may be removed and impounded by the Department
of Public Works, the Inspectional Services Department or an Agent thereof. The
enforcement personnel removing the cart shall make a written report that
identifies himself or herself as well as the date, time and location of the
cart at the time of the removal; this report may take the form of a tag
attached to the cart; a copy of the report shall be immediately forwarded to
the Commissioner of Inspectional Services.
   (B)   Within a reasonable time but not more than three business days after
removal, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall notify the owner of
the removed cart using the information provided on the permanent identity tag
attached pursuant to Subsection16-12.8A.3(A). If the cart does not have a
permanent identity tag, then the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may
attempt to notify the owner of the removed cart if the identity of the owner is
known or reasonably discernible. Any notification of removed and impounded
shopping carts shall be made in writing and shall include the date of removal,
the location of removal and the process for the owner’s retrieval of the cart.
   (C)   Any cart that does not have the permanent identity tag attached
pursuant to Subsection 16-12.8A.3(A) and which is removed pursuant to these
Sections is deemed to be abandoned property and the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services may sell any such cart at public auction and the proceeds
shall inure to the city, or destroy or otherwise dispose of any such cart.
   (D)   No person shall remove a shopping cart from a business establishment
without the express written authorization of the business establishment. Any
person that removes a shopping cart from a business establishment without the
express written authorization of the business establishment, although subject
to the criminal penalties in M.G.L. Chapter 266, Section 30A, shall also be
subject to a civil fine in the amount of $50. The Boston Police Department
shall have non-exclusive authority to enforce this Subsection.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.4; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.5   Retrieval of Shopping Carts.
   (A)   An owner or an owner’s agent may retrieve a shopping cart removed
pursuant to Subsection 16-12.8A.4 by appearing during normal business hours at
the location in the notice required under Subsection 16-12.8A.4 and by paying:
      (1)   A fee for the removal of the carts in the amount of $20 for each of
the first three carts and $40 for each additional cart thereafter; and
      (2)   A fee for the storage of the cart(s) in the amount of $5 per cart
per day.
   (B)   The obligation of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services to release
a shopping cart continues only as follows:
      (1)   If no hearing in accordance with Subsection 16-12.8A.7 has been
timely and properly requested and the cart has not been retrieved, then the
obligation of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services extends only 30
calendar days after notice of removal has been mailed; and
      (2)   If a hearing in accordance with Subsection 16-12.8A.7 has been
timely and properly requested, then the obligation of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services extends only 15 calendar days after a notice of decision
of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services has been made in accordance with
Subsection 16-12.8A.7.
   (C)   Any shopping cart that has not been retrieved by an owner within the
time periods contained in this Section shall be deemed to be permanently
abandoned, and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may, in said
Commissioner’s sole discretion:
      (1)   Continue to release such carts to the owner in accordance with
Subsection 16-12.8A.5(A);
      (2)   Sell such carts at public auction and the proceeds shall inure to
the city; or
      (3)   Destroy or otherwise dispose of such carts.
   (D)   An owner that does not retrieve a cart and that has not petitioned for
a hearing may be subject to additional fines and/or fees which may include a
fee to dispose of the cart of $40.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.5; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.6   Fines.
   Unless otherwise specified in these Sections, a violation of Subsection 16-
12.8A shall be subject to the issuance of a warning for a first offense, a fine
of $25 for a second offense and a fine of $50 for any third or subsequent
offense. Any fines and/or fees that remain unpaid by an owner for more than 12
months may become liens against the real estate of the business establishment.
The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce these
Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.6; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.7   Appeal.
   (A)   An owner who has incurred a shopping cart-related warning and/or fee
under these Sections may obtain a hearing regarding the propriety of the
warning and/or fee by making a written petition to the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for a hearing within 15 calendar days of receipt of the
notice of removal pursuant to Subsection 16-12.8A.4(B). The Commissioner of
Inspectional Services shall provide written notice to the owner of the date,
time and location of the hearing, and the hearing shall be held within 30
calendar days from the date of the hearing request.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall act as the Hearing
Officer and the decision resulting therefrom shall be final and subject only to
judicial review under M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall notify the owner of
the decision in writing within 30 calendar days of the hearing.
   (D)   Proceedings for review of the decision of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services may be instituted in any court of competent jurisdiction
within the commonwealth within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice of
decision of said Commissioner. The commencement of an action shall not operate
as a stay of enforcement of said Commissioner’s decision, but the Commissioner
of Inspectional Services, at his or her discretion, may stay enforcement; the
reviewing court may order a stay upon such terms as it considers proper as
prescribed by M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.7; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.8   Permits.
   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services and the Commissioner of Public
Works may withhold the issuance of any permit if the applicant therefor is an
owner, or is acting on behalf of an owner, of a business establishment that has
an uncorrected violation and/or amounts due for an unpaid fine or an unpaid
fee.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.8; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.9   Stolen Property.
   In their efforts to enforce the provisions of these Sections, nothing in
these Sections shall be construed to prohibit, encumber or impede PWD or ISD
from reporting a discovery of stolen property to the Boston Police Department.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.9; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.10   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services and/or the Commissioner of Public
Works shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
implement and enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.10; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.11   Effective Date.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately, but
enforcement of fines, fees and/or other penalties shall not be authorized until
July 31, 2004.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.11; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.8A.12   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-12.8A.12; Ord. 2003 c. 24)
16-12.9   Litter from Vehicles.
   No driver of any vehicle upon any public way, public alley or other public
place under the charge of the Commissioner of Public Works shall permit to drop
or fall from such vehicle onto such way, alley or place or any roadway or walk
thereof, and suffer to remain there, any substance except in the maintenance or
repair of such way, alley or place.
(CBC 1985 16-12.9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 293) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1,
16-32.6
16-12.10   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1975 c. 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 294; CBC 1985 16-12.10; Recodified in
Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.11   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 295; CBC 1985 16-12.11; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by
Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.12   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 296; CBC 1985 16-12.12; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by
Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.13   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 297; Ord. 1985 c. 7; CBC 1985 16-12.13; Recodified in
Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-23.6
16-12.14   Use of Propelled Novelty Substances Prohibited.
   No person shall in or about any part of the streets, parks, public grounds,
public buildings or other public places discharge without permission of every
person who would be struck, or the owners of property which would be struck, as
the case may be, as result of such discharge any toy, amusement or novelty
product fitted to propel, by compressed air or gas, any substance primarily
intended for amusement or decoration, in the nature of “liquid string”, so-
called.
(CBC 1985 16-12.14; Ord. 1994 c. 12 § 2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.15   Throwing or Shooting on Streets.
   No person shall, in any street, play ball, throw stones, snow balls or other
missiles, or shoot with or use a bow and arrow or sling.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 299; CBC 1985 16-12.15) Penalty, see Subsection 16-23.6
16-12.16   Snow, Slush and Ice on Sidewalks and Curb Ramps.
   (A)   Requirements for snow and/or slush. No owner, manager or tenant, if
expressly required to remove snow under a written lease and rental agreement,
of a building, estate or land abutting on a sidewalk shall place or suffer to
remain in place for more than three hours after snow fall has ended between
sunrise and sunset any slush or any loose, granular or packed snow upon such
sidewalk. Removal of any slush or snow should be conducted along the full paved
width of such sidewalk and in a manner that ensures the orderly flow and safety
of pedestrian traffic upon such sidewalks. Removal of any slush or snow shall
be conducted in a manner that clears a path of a minimum of 42 inches wide.
Each day that a violation exists shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation.
   (B)   Requirements for ice. No owner, manager or tenant, if expressly
required to remove ice under a written lease or rental agreement, of a
building, estate or land abutting on a sidewalk shall place or suffer to remain
in place for more than three hours after snow fall has ended between sunrise
and sunset any ice upon such sidewalk. Removal of any ice shall be in a manner
consistent with the requirements of division (A) above, except that any such
owner, manager or tenant shall be deemed to be in compliance with this division
(B) if such ice is made level and completely covered with sand, sawdust or
other similar material. Each day that a violation exists shall be considered a
separate and distinct violation.
   (C)   Requirements for snow and/or slush on curb ramps. No owner, manager or
tenant, if expressly required to remove snow and/or slush under a written lease
or rental agreement, of a building, estate or land abutting on one or more curb
ramps shall place or suffer to remain in place for more than three hours after
snow fall has ended between sunrise and sunset any slush or any loose, granular
or packed snow upon such curb ramp(s). Removal of any slush or snow should be
conducted along the full paved width of such curb ramp(s) and in a manner that
ensures the orderly flow and safety of pedestrian traffic upon such curb ramp
(s). Removal of any slush or snow shall be conducted in a manner that clears a
path of a minimum of 42 inches wide from the sidewalk to the street. Each day
that a violation exists shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   Requirements for ice on curb ramps. No owner, manager or tenant, if
expressly required to remove ice under a written lease or rental agreement, of
a building, estate or land abutting on one or more curb ramps shall place or
suffer to remain in place for more than three hours after snow fall has ended
between sunrise and sunset any ice upon such curb ramp(s). Removal of any ice
shall be in a manner consistent with the requirements of division (A) above,
except that any such owner, manager or tenant shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this division (D) if such ice is made level and completely
covered with sand, sawdust or other similar material. Each day that a violation
exists shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (E)   Removal. No person shall remove slush, snow or ice from privately
owned real property and place it upon any sidewalk, curb ramp or street.
   (F)   Enforcement/penalties.
      (1)   Any violation of divisions (A) or (B) above occurring at a sidewalk
abutting land zoned solely for residential use and that has 16 or fewer
residential units shall result in a fine of $100 for each such violation.
      (2)   Any violation of divisions (A) or (B) above occurring at a sidewalk
abutting land zoned solely for residential use and that has more than 16
residential units shall result in a fine of $150 for each such violation.
      (3)   Any violation of divisions (A) or (B) above occurring at a sidewalk
abutting land zoned for any use other than solely residential shall result in a
fine of $250 for each such violation.
      (4)   Any violation of divisions (C) or (D) above occurring at one or
more curb ramps abutting land zoned for any use other than solely residential
shall result in a fine of $250 for each such violation.
      (5)   Any violation of division (E) above occurring at a sidewalk, curb
ramp or street abutting land zoned solely for residential use and that has 16
or fewer residential units shall result in a fine of $100 for a cubic yard or
less and $150 for more than a cubic yard.
      (6)   Any violation of division (E) above occurring at a sidewalk, curb
ramp or street abutting land zoned solely residential use and that has more
than 16 residential units shall result in a fine of $150 for a cubic yard or
less and $200 for more than a cubic yard.
      (7)   Any violation of division (E) above occurring at a sidewalk or curb
ramp abutting land zoned for any use other than solely residential shall result
in a fine of $300.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 300; CBC 1985 16-12.16; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 30; Ord. 1994 c.
2 § 1; Ord. 2007 c.7 § 1; Ord. 2011 c. 13) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-
32.6
16-12.17   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 301; Ord. 1985 c. 9 § 1; CBC 1985 16-12.17; Recodified in
Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.18   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 302; Ord. 1985 c. 9 § 2; CBC 1985 16-12.18; Recodified in
Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1, 16-32.6
16-12.19   Cutting of Grass.
   No person in control of any estate abutting on a sidewalk shall knowingly
suffer to remain uncut any overgrowth of grass planted therein by the city.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 303; CBC 1985 16-12.19) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1,
16-32.6
16-12.20   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 304; CBC 1985 16-12.20; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 31)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.21   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 305; CBC 1985 16-12.21; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 32)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.22   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 306; CBC 1985 16-12.22; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 33)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.23   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 307; CBC 1985 16-12.23; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 34)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-12.24   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 308; CBC 1985 16-12.24; Repealed by Ord. 2005 c. 1)
16-12.25   Unlawful Games.
   No person shall expose in any street any table or device of any kind
intended for playing a game of hazard or chance; and no person shall play any
such game or any other unlawful game in any street.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 309; CBC 1985 16-12.25)
16-12.26   Protection of Trees, Lamp-Post and Hydrants.
   No person shall climb, or tie a horse or other animal to, a tree, lamp-post
or hydrant in any street; or attach a wire to a tree belonging to the city or
in a street, except by bending wire around a part of the tree over blocks
painted substantially the color of the tree and so placed as to protect the
tree from injury.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 310; CBC 1985 16-12.26)
16-12.27   Abusive Language; Soliciting in Streets.
   No person shall, in any street or other public place, accost or address
another person with profane or obscene language; nor shall any person in a
street solicit another person to engage in an unlawful sexual act.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 311; CBC 1985 16-12.27) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
16-12.28   Drinking of Alcoholic Beverages in Public.
   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverage as defined in M.G.L. Chapter
138, Section 1, or possess an open container, full or partially full, of any
alcoholic beverages, while on, in or upon any public way, upon any way to which
the public has right of access, in any place to which members of the public
have access as invitees or licensees, in any park or playground, conservation
area or recreation area, on private land or place without consent of the owner
or person in control thereof.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 312; Ord. 1982 c. 21 s 1; Ord. 1982 c. 23 s 1; CBC 1985
16-12.28) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.2
16-12.29   Procurement of Alcoholic Beverages for Underage Individuals.
   No person, while in or on any public way, public alley, sidewalk, park or
playground area or vehicle parking or apron pedestrian area serving mercantile
establishments within the city shall agree to procure for or deliver to an
individual who has not reached age 21 any alcoholic beverage, sealed or open.
The burden of ascertaining that the recipient meets age eligibility shall rest
upon the person delivering such container of alcoholic beverage. Violators
shall be subject to penalty as established by M.G.L. Chapter 138, Section 34
imposing a fine up to $200 or up to six months imprisonment or both, upon
conviction.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 312A; Ord. 1982 c. 21 s 2; CBC 1985 16-12.29; Ord. 1993 c.
2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
16-12.30   The Use of Intimidation to Obtain Alcoholic Beverages.
   No individual or individuals, while in or on any public way, public alley,
sidewalk, park or playground area or vehicle parking or apron pedestrian area
serving any mercantile establishment within the city and who are under age 21
shall persuade, intimidate or otherwise cause any other person to purchase or
obtain from a licensed establishment alcoholic beverages intended for
consumption by such individual or other individuals who are below the legal
drinking age in this commonwealth. Violators, including minors, shall be
subject to penalty as established by M.G.L. Chapter 138, Section 34A which
imposes a fine of $300 for each conviction.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 312B; Ord. 1982 c. 21 s 3; CBC 1985 16-12.30; Ord. 1993 c.
2)
16-12.30A   The Use of False Identification to Obtain Alcoholic Beverages.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall use transferred, altered, defaced or
forged identification in order to obtain alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Penalty. In addition to any penalties delineated in M.G.L. Chapter
138, Section 34B, any person violating the prohibition of this Section may be
subject to a fine of $250.
   (C)   Enforcement and regulatory authority. The Boston Police Department
shall have the authority to enforce these provisions and to promulgate rules
and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these provisions.
   (D)   Severability. If any provision of this Section shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
   (E)   Implementation. These provisions shall be effective immediately upon
passage.
(CBC 1985 16-12.30A; Ord. 2005 c. 2)
16-12.31   Posting of “Warning” Notice.
   In addition to requirements of M.G.L. Chapter 138, Section 34A, the
“warning” poster provided by the commonwealth’s Alcoholic Beverages Control
Commission shall in Boston be prominently displayed at the principal entrance
of every licensed establishment which sells alcoholic beverages for off-
premises consumption. Each Police Area Commander shall ascertain through
inspection at least twice annually that every such establishment located in his
or her jurisdiction has adequately posted such notice at the principal
entrance.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 312C; Ord. 1982 c. 21 s. 4; CBC 1985 16-12.31)
16-12.31A   Concerning Parental Responsibility for Public Consumption of
Alcoholic Beverages by Minors.
   A parent, guardian or legal custodian of an unemancipated minor child shall
be liable for any willful act committed by said child in violation of the
provisions of Subsections 16-12.28, 16-12.29 or 16-12.30, supra. This provision
shall be enforced by all Police Officers and shall be punishable by a fine of
$50. This Section shall be enforced under non-criminal disposition of
violations in the manner and to the extent provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D.
(CBC 1985 16-12.31; Ord. 1986 c. 16 § 1)
16-12.32   Vaults Under Sidewalks.
   No person shall make any permanent excavation under the surface of a street,
the inner face of the wall of which extends further under the street than to a
line 18 inches inside the line of the outer edge of the curbstone or sidewalk.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 313; CBC 1985 16-12.32)
16-12.33   Gratings.
   No person shall place or maintain in a street any grating which extends more
than 18 inches into the street, or the spaces between the bars of which are
more than 1 inch in width.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 314; CBC 1985 16-12.33)
16-12.34   Openings in Street.
   No person shall make a coal-hole or other opening in a street, except in
accordance with a permit from the Commissioner of Public Works.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 315; CBC 1985 16-12.34)
16-12.35   Steps.
   No person shall maintain an entrance to his or her estate by steps
descending immediately from or near the line of a public street, unless the
same is securely guarded.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 316; CBC 1985 16-12.35)
16-12.36   Street Openings.
   No person shall open or occupy any portion of a street, except in accordance
with a permit from the Commissioner of Public Works. Such permit shall be
exhibited to a Police Officer upon his or her request.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 317; CBC 1985 16-12.36)
16-12.37   Prohibiting Operation of Skateboards, Roller Blades, Roller Skates
and Stunt-Type Bicycles on Certain Public Property.
   (A)   Operation of skateboards, roller blades, roller skates and stunt-type
bicycles on public property prohibited.
      (1)   Unless otherwise permitted by city rule or regulation, it shall be
unlawful for any person to ride or operate roller blades, roller skates, a
skateboard or stunt-type bicycle upon public property in the city. Public
property includes, but is not limited to, stairs, fountain areas, plazas or any
area under the care, custody and control of the city but, for the purpose of
this Subsection, shall not include streets or sidewalks.
      (2)   The Transportation Commission may by regulation declare it unlawful
for any person to ride or operate roller blades, roller skates, a skateboard or
stunt-type bicycle upon specific streets or sidewalks within the city.
   (B)   Penalties. An individual who violates division (A) above shall be
subject to a fine of $100 for a first offense and $200 for any subsequent
offense, but a court may authorize community service in lieu of all or part of
this fine.
   (C)   Enforcement. The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be
utilized to enforce this Section.
   (D)   Severability. The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if
any Section, part or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair any remaining Section, part or portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 16-12.37; Ord. 1997 c. 8 §§ 1–3; Ord. 2003 c. 1)
16-12.38   Gas-Powered Vehicles: Scooters, Powerboards and Mini-Motorbikes.
   (A)   Definition. This Section refers to scooters, powerboards and mini-
motorbikes that have handlebars, that have two wheels, that are designed to be
stood upon or sat upon by the operator and that are gas-powered by an engine or
motor capable of propelling the vehicle with or without human thrust.
   (B)   Prohibition from sidewalks. No person may use, ride or otherwise
operate a gas-powered scooter, powerboard or mini-motorbike on a sidewalk of
the city.
   (C)   Prohibition from streets. No person may use, ride or otherwise operate
a gas-powered scooter, powerboard or mini-motorbike on a public way, private
way, street or on the grounds of any public school in the city unless that
person is 16 years of age or older and is carrying a valid driver’s/operator’s
license.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall
be subject to a fine of $25 for a first offense and $50 for a second or any
subsequent offense, but a court of competent jurisdiction may substitute
community service for any fine monies.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in these Sections shall prevent the legal use of:
      (1)   Any mechanical or motorized device designed and used to assist a
person with a disability affecting ambulation;
      (2)   A moped that has been registered with the commonwealth’s Registry
of Motor Vehicles; and
      (3)   A motorized bicycle that has been registered with the
commonwealth’s Registry of Motor Vehicles.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Boston Transportation Department and the Boston
Police Department shall have the authority to enforce this Section. The
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce these
Sections. The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to impound any
vehicle in violation of these Sections.
   (G)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
   (H)   Severability. If any provision of these Sections are held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
   (I)   Implementation. The provisions of this Section shall be effective
immediately after passage.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38; Ord. 2004 c. 6)
16-12.38A   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
16-12.38A.1   Definition of Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device or
EPAMD.
   An ELECTRICAL PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE (“EPAMD”) shall mean a
self-balancing device with two wheels not in tandem, designed to transport only
one person by an electric propulsion system having a maximum speed on a paved
level surface of less than 20 mph. For purposes of this Section, EPAMDs shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the Segway® PT. For purposes of this
Section, electric or motorized wheelchairs and powerchairs shall not be
considered EPAMDs.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.1; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.2   Prohibition of EPAMDs.
   The use of EPAMDs are hereby prohibited, based upon the interest of safety,
on all public property in the city except as specifically authorized by the
provisions of this chapter. Public property, includes but is not limited to,
all public ways, sidewalks, parks, plazas, bicycle paths and shared use paths
owned by and/or under the care, custody and control of the city.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.2; Ord. 2011 c.8)
16-12.38A.3   Definition of Tour Operator.
   A TOUR OPERATOR is any person, corporation or other entity engaged in the
business of providing tours to customers using EPAMDs and/or engaged in the
business of renting EPAMDs to customers in the city.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.3; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.4   Limited Use of EPAMDs for Tour Operations.
   (A)   In the city the use of EPAMDs in tour operations shall be permitted
subject to licensure by the Police Commissioner for the city who shall have
exclusive authority to license and promulgate regulations for the use of EPAMDs
in such tour operations. Subject to such licensure and regulations, tour
operators, their employees, customers and users may operate EPAMDs only on
public streets in the city on routes approved by the Boston Transportation
Department with a license issued by the Boston Police Department’s Hackney
Division to use and/or operate EPAMDs under the minimum conditions and
requirements as set forth in this Section. The Police Commissioner may
establish additional conditions and requirements by rule or regulation
consistent with his or her authority as Police Commissioner of the city. Such
licenses approved by the Police Commissioner shall be granted for a term not
exceeding one year but whenever granted they shall expire annually on March 1;
such licenses may be renewed annually by the Police Commissioner and may at any
time be revoked or suspended for cause by said Commissioner. The Police
Commissioner shall determine appropriate fees for administering such licenses.
Such license is nontransferable and authorizes only the named licensee and/or
its customers to use and/or operate EPAMDs in accordance with the provisions of
this Section. Such license shall be prominently displayed on the front of any
EPAMD used and/or operated by a licensee within the city.
   (B)   Such minimum conditions and requirements shall be as follows.
      (1)   The proposed tour route and months, days and hours of operation
must be pre-approved in writing by the Boston Transportation Department.
Thereafter, there shall be no deviations from the approved tour route without
prior written approval from the Boston Transportation Department.
      (2)   The tour operator shall provide an approved site for education and
instruction on the operation and use of EPAMDs by its employees and customers.
For purposes of this Section, customers shall include all tour patrons and
users, whether or not consideration is paid for such use.
   (C)   All tour users or customers must be shown a safety video and provided
with “hands on” EPAMD training by an experienced operator in a controlled area
prior to such user physically operating an EPAMD on any public property in the
city.
   (D)   Tour operators shall provide to their customers and/or users of EPAMDs
a fact sheet issued by the city summarizing the provisions of this Subsection
16-12.38A and any applicable regulations authorized herein regulating licensed
tour operators and EPAMD users. Tour operators shall ensure that every customer
and/or user of an EPAMD on its tour shall acknowledge, sign and date the fact
sheet prior to his or her use of an EPAMD. Tour operators shall retain such
record of acknowledgment in accordance with the rules or regulations authorized
to be promulgated hereunder.
   (E)   The maximum number of EPAMD users that can be included in any single
tour is six, and one tour leader.
   (F)   Tour leaders/operators must be able to communicate with each other
through the use of private communication devices (two-way radios, cellular
phones or similar devices) and have available the use of rearview mirrors or
other mirror device approved by the Boston Police Department.
   (G)   No rider under 14 years of age and/or 100 pounds in weight, and/or as
limited by the applicant’s insurance company requirements, and/or pursuant to
the EPAMD manufacturer’s specifications, shall be allowed on any tour.
   (H)   Tour leaders/operators must be at least 18 years of age and must be
experienced in the use and operation of EPAMDs to give tours. Tour leaders or
operators shall wear safety reflector vests, or other obviously visible
clothing as may be approved by the Boston Police Department.
   (I)   No EPAMD shall be used or operated in excess of a maximum speed of
eight miles per hour.
   (J)   Tours shall use only the public streets or roads of the city.
   (K)   No tour will be conducted or operated after dusk.
   (L)   Tours shall not enter any private property without prior permission
from the owner.
   (M)   Every EPAMD shall be equipped with a sounding device and all customers
or users shall be trained in the use of such sounding device.
   (N)   An EPAMD user shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and shall
give an audible signal with a sounding device before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian.
   (O)   All users or customers shall wear helmets during training and at all
other times during the tour or at any time while on or operating an EPAMD.
   (P)   Users or customers shall not be permitted to operate an EPAMD while
under the apparent influence of alcohol or drugs, including prescription drugs
that impair the user’s ability to operate machinery, or in the event that the
tour operator or employees have actual knowledge of the fact that such user or
customer is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, including prescription
drugs that impair the user’s ability to operate machinery.
   (Q)   All of the above requirements and conditions shall be explained and
specifically described by the tour operator or employees to each user or
customer prior to the use of an EPAMD by such user or customer.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.5; Ord. 2011 c.8)
16-12.38A.5   Limited Use of EPAMDs for Disabled Persons for Mobility Purposes.
   An EPAMD may be used and operated on public property in the city; provided
such EPAMD is used and/or operated by a person disabled for mobility purposes
in accordance with all the requirements established in this Section.
   (A)   Inquiry into use of EPAMDs by persons who are disabled for mobility
purposes.
      (1)   The city may ask any person using or operating an EPAMD on public
property in the city to provide evidence that the person’s use or operation of
the EPAMD is required because of his or her mobility disability. The city shall
accept one or more of the following as evidence that a person’s use or
operation of an EPAMD is required because of his or her mobility disability:
         (a)   A valid disability parking placard or card issued by the
commonwealth, presented by a person at the time of his or her use or operation
of the EPAMD;
         (b)   Any other valid proof of disability issued by the commonwealth,
presented by a person at the time of his or her use or operation of the EPAMD;
and
         (c)   A verbal representation by the person on, using or operating the
EPAMD that his or her use or operation of the EPAMD is required because of his
or her mobility disability. However, the city may assess any penalty or take
any other action authorized under this Subsection 16-12.38A if such person’s
verbal representation that his or her use or operation of the EPAMD is required
because of his or her mobility disability is contradicted by observable fact,
as determined by the city.
      (2)   Any person on, using or operating an EPAMD on public property in
the city who is unable to present the required evidence of his or her mobility
disability at the time of his or her use or operation of an EPAMD as described
above and as determined by the city, shall be deemed in violation of the
provisions of this Section.
   (B)   Groups of EPAMDs. Under no circumstances may any individual permitted
to use EPAMDs under the provisions of this Subsection travel in a group of more
than two on the sidewalks, public ways, parks or pedestrian ways and areas in
the city. When traveling in a group of two EPAMDs, such individuals shall
travel only in single file and shall not travel side-by-side in the city.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.5; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.6   Use of EPAMDs for Advertising.
   Except for the advertisement of and dissemination of information about the
tour operation, no person or tour operator shall, for the purpose of
advertising goods, wares or merchandise for sale, while on and/or using an
EPAMD in any street or on other public property in the city, carry and display
any show card, placard or sign or distribute to persons for the purpose of
advertising goods, wares or merchandise for sale, handbills, cards, circulars
or papers.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.6; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.7   Penalties.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for a first offense and $100 for a second or any subsequent
offense. In addition to the fines stated above, any tour operator violating the
provisions of this Section shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each offense.
Depending on the severity of the offense, as determined by the Boston Police
Department, a violation of any of the provisions of this Section may also
result in suspension or revocation of a tour operator’s license to use EPAMDs
from the Boston Police Department’s Hackney Division.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.7; Ord. 2011 C.8)
16-12.38A.8   Enforcement.
   The Boston Transportation Department and the Boston Police Department shall
have the authority to enforce this Section. The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter
40, Section 21D may be used to enforce these Sections. The Boston Police
Department shall have the authority to impound any EPAMD in violation of these
Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.8; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.9   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation Department and the
Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these
Sections. Pursuant to St. 1949, c. 222, the Commissioner of the Boston Police
Department may charge an appropriate fee for such services attendant to the
registration and licensure process.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.9; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.38A.10   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-12.38A.10; Ord. 2011 c. 8)
16-12.39   Pedicabs.
   (A)   Definition of pedicabs. For the purpose of this Subsection, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      PEDICAB. A bicycle-like vehicle that has at least three wheels, that
transports or is capable of transporting passengers on seats attached to the
bicycle, that is propelled by an individual or individuals and that is used for
transporting passengers for hire.
   (B)   Operation of pedicabs.
      (1)   Unless otherwise permitted by city rule or regulation, it shall be
unlawful for any person to ride or operate a pedicab upon public property in
the city without a license for the vehicle from the Boston Police Department’s
Hackney Division. The vehicle’s license must be renewed annually and a fee as
determined by the Boston Police Commissioner shall apply. Public property
includes, but is not limited to, all streets, sidewalks, parks, plazas or any
area under the care, custody and control of the city. Notwithstanding the
above, an additional license from the Parks Commission may be required to
operate within certain public property.
      (2)   Unless otherwise permitted by city rule or regulation, it shall be
unlawful for any person to ride or operate a pedicab upon public property in
the city without a license to operate a pedicab from the Boston Police
Department’s Hackney Division. The operator’s license must be renewed annually
and a fee as determined by the Boston Police Commissioner shall apply.
      (3)    No person may operate a pedicab in the city unless the person
possesses a valid driver’s license.
      (4)   No person may operate a pedicab in the city unless the proposed
route and times of operation have been approved by the Boston Transportation
Department.
      (5)   No person may place into service or operate any pedicab or other
like vehicle, three wheeled or otherwise, with a fixed bench or trailer, unless
approved by the Police Commissioner and inspected for condition and proven to
be safe and roadworthy.
   (C)   Penalties. An individual who violates division (B) above shall be
subject to a fine of $500 for a first offense and $1,000 for any subsequent
offense, but a court may authorize public service in lieu of all or part of
this fine. Depending upon the severity of the offense, a violation of any rule
or regulation regarding the operation of such a pedicab may also result in
suspension or revocation of the pedicab owner’s license to operate from the
Boston Police Department’s Hackney Division.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Boston Transportation Department and the Boston
Police Department shall have the authority to enforce those Sections. The
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce this
Section. The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to impound any
vehicle in violation of these Sections.
   (E)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
   (F)   Severability. The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if
any Section, part or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair any remaining Section, part of portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 16-12.39; Ord. 2007 c. 6)
16-12.40   Prohibiting Operation of Party Bikes.
   (A)   Definition of party bikes. For the purpose of this Subsection, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      PARTY BIKE. A bicycle-like vehicle that has at least three wheels, where
some seats are not facing the direction of travel, that transports, or is
capable of transporting, passengers on seats attached to the bicycle, that is
propelled or is capable of being propelled, by more than one individual, that
has a frame that is more than 5 feet in width, and that is used for
transporting passengers for hire.
   (B)   Operation of party bikes prohibited. Unless otherwise permitted by
city rule or regulation, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, ride or
operate a party bike upon public property in the city. Public property
includes, but is not limited to, all streets, sidewalks, parks, plazas or any
area under the care, custody and control of the city.
   (C)   Penalties. An individual who violates division (B) above shall be
subject to a fine of $500 for a first offense and $1,000 for any subsequent
offense, but a court may authorize public service in lieu of all or part of
this fine.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Boston Transportation Department and the Boston
Police Department shall have the authority to enforce this Section. The
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce this
Section. The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to impound any
vehicle in violation of these Sections.
   (E)   Regulation authority. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
   (F)   Severability. The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if
any Section, part or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair any remaining Section, part or portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 16-12.40; Ord. 2007 c. 6)
16-12.41   Parking in a Marked Bike Lane or Marked Shared Bike Lane.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish guidelines for
parking motor vehicles in marked bike lanes and shared bike lanes.
   (B)   Prohibition from marked bike lanes and shared lanes. No driver shall
stand or park any motor vehicle in a marked bike or shared bike lane in the
city.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall
be subject to a fine of $100 for each offense. This fine shall increase by $33
if it remains unpaid at least 21 days after issuance of a notice of the
violation.
   (D)   Exceptions. Nothing in these Sections shall prevent standing or
parking a motor vehicle in a marked bike lane or shared bike lane:
      (1)   When necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or pedestrians;
      (2)   In compliance with the lawful direction of a Police Officer or
official traffic sign; or
      (3)   Unless authorized to do so under existing regulations (including,
but not limited to, designated residential parking lanes or parking meters).
   (E)   Enforcement. The Boston Transportation Department and the Boston
Police Department shall have the authority to enforce this Section. The
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½ may be used to enforce these
Sections, and the adjudication provisions of this chapter and of Chapter 190 of
the Acts of 1982 shall apply to this Section. The Boston Police Department and
Boston Transportation Department shall have the authority to impound any motor
vehicle in violation of these Sections.
   (F)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-12.41; Ord. 2009 c. 7)
16-12.42   Parking or Stopping Within Any Pedestrian Safety Zone.
   (A)   Prohibition of non-authorized vehicles in the zone. Any vehicles
stopped, standing or parked in a Pedestrian Safety Zone may be ticketed and
fined $100, if not displaying a valid Pedestrian Safety Zone Permit (“Permit”).
Authorized vehicles displaying a valid Permit are allowed to load/unload at
designated loading zone areas within the Pedestrian Safety Zone between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. No vehicles, regardless of valid Pedestrian
Safety Zone Permit, shall be allowed to stop, stand or park in the Zone between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. The fine shall increase by $33 if it
remains unpaid at least 21 days after the issuance of a notice of the
violation.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Boston Transportation Department and Boston Police
Department shall have the authority to enforce this Section. The provisions of
M.G.L. Chapter 90, Section 20A½ may be used to enforce these Sections, and the
adjudication provisions of this chapter and of Chapter 190 of the Acts of 1982
shall apply to this Section. The Boston Police Department and Boston
Transportation Department shall have the authority to impound any motor vehicle
in violation of these Sections.
   (C)   Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation
Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections.
   (D)   Severability. If any provision of these Sections is held as invalid,
then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining
provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-12.42; Ord. 2010 c. 2)
16-12.43   Prohibiting the Selling, Leasing or Reserving of Public Ways.
   (A)   No person or entity other than the city and any of its Departments, or
designees, shall have the authority to sell, lease, reserve or facilitate the
reserving of any street, way, highway, road or parkway, or portion thereof,
under the city’s control.
   (B)   Any violation of this Section shall result in a fine of $250 for each
violation. Each day that an entity is operating in violation of this Section
shall constitute a separate violation.
(CBC 1985 16-12.43; Ord. 2014 c. 11)
16-13   BRIDGES AND WHARVES.
16-13.1   Rules Concerning Bridges and Wharves.
   No person shall deface or injure any public bridge or any wharf connected
therewith, or unnecessarily open the draw of any such bridge, or obstruct the
passage of the same; nor shall any person, without the consent of the draw-
tender, make fast to any public bridge, or draw, guard or pier thereof, any
vessel, scow, raft or float; nor shall any person remain inside of the draw-
gates, or on any pier, wharf, fender or appurtenance of such draw, while such
gates are closed; nor shall any person, having under his or her charge a vessel
passing through the draw of any such bridge, refuse or neglect to comply with
the directions of a draw-tender relating to such passing.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 318; CBC 1985 16-13.1)
16-13.2   Relative to the Licensing of Certain Bridges and Tunnels.
   (A)   No person shall undertake to construct, maintain, set up or operate,
whether or not for a fee or charge, any bridge or tunnel wholly located within
the city, not existing on the date of passage hereof, without first having
obtained a license therefor, granted by the Mayor and Boston City Council, only
upon recommendation of the Conservation Commission indicating that the same is
without significant adverse environmental effect.
   (B)   Without further authority, the Corporation Counsel shall seek to
restrain any violation of the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1981 c. 36 §§ 1, 2; CBC 1985 16-13.2)
Editor’s note:
   The date of passage of this Subsection was July 14, 1982.
16-14   RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 35)
16-14.1   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 319; CBC 1985 16-14.1; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 35)
16-15   USE OF ROADWAY FOR VEHICLES.
16-15.1   Horse-Drawn Vehicles.
   No person having charge of a horse-drawn vehicle shall allow the same
without an animal harnessed thereto remain in a street for more than five
minutes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 320; CBC 1985 16-15.1)
16-15.2   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 321; CBC 1985 16-15.2; Repealed by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 36)
16-15.3   Bells on Vehicles.
   No person shall drive an animal drawing a vehicle in a street during any
time that snow or ice is upon or covers the street, unless there are three or
more bells attached to the shaft or pole of the vehicle or to the animal or to
some part of the harness thereon.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 322; CBC 1985 16-15.3)
16-15.4   Direction of Vehicles.
   No person having charge of a vehicle shall, unless otherwise directed by a
Police Officer, pass along a street or public alley in a direction contrary to
that designated by the sign placed on the side of such street or alley.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 323; CBC 1985 16-15.4)
16-15.5   Vehicles for Hire.
   (A)   In the city, no person, firm or corporation driving or having charge
of a taxicab or other private vehicle shall offer the vehicle for hire for the
purpose of transporting, soliciting and/or picking up a passenger or passengers
unless said person is licensed as a hackney driver and said vehicle is licensed
as a hackney carriage by the Police Commissioner of said city. In addition, no
person, firm or corporation driving of having charge of a taxicab or other
private vehicle shall operate identifiable taxi top lights for the purpose of
transporting, soliciting and/or picking up a passenger or passengers unless
said person is licensed as a hackney driver and said vehicle is licensed as a
hackney carriage by the Police Commissioner of said city.
   (B)   Any Police Officer witnessing a violation of division (A) above may
arrest the driver of the vehicle and seize evidence of said violation. Such
evidence shall include, but is not limited to, meters, whether mechanical or
electrical, for the computation of fares based on mileage or predetermined
periods of time. Any Officer who seizes such items as evidence of a violation
of division (A) above shall take them to a place of safety until they are
produced or used as evidence in any trial or other Court proceedings. All such
property seized shall be disposed of as the Court Orders, and may be forfeited,
sold or destroyed in the discretion of the Court.
   (C)   No owner or association of owners, whose principal place of business
is located in the city, and who owns a taxicab or taxicabs licensed by the
city, shall be allowed to dispatch taxicabs within the city unless said
taxicabs are licensed by the Boston Police Commissioner and the operators of
said taxicabs possess valid hackney carriage driver licenses issued by the
Boston Police Department. However, nothing herein contained shall be construed
as prohibiting a driver of a taxicab licensed outside the city from driving
through said city, or from accepting within the city, a passenger, passengers,
packages or other merchandise if summoned by or at the request of said
passenger or client by telephone, or by radio dispatch from the owner or
operator’s principal place of business outside the city; provided that the
name, pick-up address and destination of said passenger or client are
immediately supplied by the driver to any inquiring Police Officer.
   (D)   Anyone found in violation of this Subsection shall be punished by fine
of not more than $500 for each violation.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 323; CBC 1985 16-15.5; Ord. 1986 c. 13 § 2-5; Ord. 2002 c.
8)
16-15.6   Use of Protective Headgear.
   All persons operating a motorized bicycle, as defined by the Registry of
Motor Vehicles of the commonwealth, or riding as a passenger on a motorized
bicycle shall wear protective headgear in the city. The headgear shall conform
with such minimum standards of construction and performance as the registrar
may prescribe for use by motorcycle operators.
(Ord. 1985 c. 13; CBC 1985 16-15.6)
16-16   STREET CARS.
16-16.1   Speed Limits.
   No person having the control of the speed of a street railway car on the
surface of any street, except in spaces especially reserved for street railway
cars, shall allow such car to go at a rate of speed faster than ten mph in any
part of the city included within the following bounds: Charles Street, Park
Square, Eliot Street, Kneeland Street, Atlantic Avenue, Commercial Street,
Causeway Street and Leverett Street, including said boundary streets; or in any
other part of the City Proper, so called, lying north of Massachusetts Avenue
and Southampton Street, at a rate of speed faster than 12 mph; or in any other
part of the city at a rate of speed faster than 15 mph; or in turning a corner
in any part of the city at a rate of speed faster than four miles per hour.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 325; CBC 1985 16-16.1)
16-16.2   Intersections.
   In approaching any public or private way intersecting that in which the
railway is located, the speed of the car must be reduced to such a rate as will
make it possible to stop immediately.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 326; CBC 1985 16-16.2)
16-16.3   Curves.
   In rounding curves and in all cases where the view of the motorman is
obstructed for any reason, the speed of the car must be reduced to meet the
condition of limited vision of railway and highway.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 327; CBC 1985 16-16.3)
16-16.4   Grades.
   Before taking any heavy descending grade, the speed of the car must be so
reduced as to test the working of the brakes.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 328; CBC 1985 16-16.4)
16-16.5   Proximity to Roads.
   Where the railway lies within a highway and is close to narrow travelled
road, the speed of the car must be reduced to meet this condition whenever such
road is in rightful use by others.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 329; CBC 1985 16-16.5)
16-16.6   Joint Use of Roads.
   Where the railway occupies a portion of the travelled road, the absence of
any exclusive right-of- way on the part of the car makes it necessary that its
speed be, from time to time, so restricted as to permit others to safely
exercise their common right to a reasonable use of the road.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 330; CBC 1985 16-16.6)
16-16.7   Safety Distances.
   No person having the control of the speed of a street-railway car in any
street shall, except in case of accident, or to prevent injury to persons or
property, allow such a car to go within 10 feet of a car or other vehicle in
front.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 331; CBC 1985 16-16.7)
16-16.8   Avoiding Collisions; Obeying Police Directions.
   No person having control of the speed of a street-railway car shall allow it
in any street to go against or afoul of any person, vehicle or thing
whatsoever; nor shall any such person fail to stop his or her car at any place
in a street when directed by a Police Officer so to do.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 332; CBC 1985 16-16.8)
16-16.9   Precautions; Warning Bells.
   No person having control of the speed of a street-railway car passing in a
street shall fail to keep a vigilant watch for all teams, carriages and
persons, especially children, nor shall such person fail to strike a bell
several times in quick succession on approaching any team, carriage or person,
and no person shall, after such striking of a bell, delay or hinder the passage
of the car.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 333; CBC 1985 16-16.9)
16-16.10   Prompt Stopping.
   No person having control of the speed of a street-railway car passing in a
street shall, on the appearance of danger to any team, carriage or person from,
or on the appearance of any obstruction to, his or her car, fail to stop the
car in the shortest time and space possible.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 334; CBC 1985 16-16.10)
16-16.11   Stopping in Intersections.
   No person having control of the speed of a street-railway car shall stop any
such car on a cross-walk or in front of an intersecting street, except to avoid
collisions or danger to persons or as directed by a Police Officer.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 335; CBC 1985 16-16.11)
16-16.12   Spreading of Gravel, Sand, and the Like.
   No street-railway company shall, except by permission of the Commissioner of
Public Works, sprinkle any gravel or sand, or any salt or other article of a
decomposing nature, on its tracks or rails in a street, or wash such tracks or
rails with brine or pickle.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 336; CBC 1985 16-16.12)
16-17   MOVING BUILDINGS AND BULKY MACHINERY.
16-17.1   Moving Buildings.
   No person shall move bulky machinery, cars or other merchandise, through, or
place or move a building in or through, a street, except in accordance with a
permit from the Commissioner of Public Works.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 337; CBC 1985 16-17.1)
16-17.2   Removing Hindrances.
   No person moving a building in a street under a permit therefor shall remove
any shade-tree or branch thereof in a street, except in accordance with the
permission of the Parks and Recreation Commission; or interfere with any fire-
alarm telegraph wire, except in accordance with the permission of the Fire
Commissioner; or interfere with any street lamp or lamp-post, except in
accordance with the permission of the Commissioner of Public Works.
(CBC 1975 T 14 § 338; CBC 1985 16-17.2)
16-18   SIDEWALKS.
16-18.1   Use of Sidewalks.
   No person shall use a sidewalk for any purpose which subjects it to more
than ordinary wear, or injures the material of which it is composed, unless
such sidewalk is, by the owner of the abutting estate, constructed of granite
or other stone, in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner of Public Works,
and kept in repair by such owner.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 339; CBC 1985 16-18.1)
16-19   PUBLIC GROUNDS.
16-19.1   Use of Public Grounds.
   No person shall, in or upon the Common, Public Garden or other public
grounds of the city, walk, stand or sit upon the grass, or upon any land
planted or prepared for planting or upon a fountain, monument or statue, or a
bandstand, wall, fence or other structure, or within the basin of a pond
otherwise than upon ice, or stand or lie upon a bench or sleep thereon, except
that the Mayor may, from time to time, by proclamation and order permit
walking, standing and lying upon the grassed land of the Common or designated
part thereof, or the grassed land of any other public grounds or any other
designated part thereof, except the Public Garden, for such days or parts of
such days as he or she shall specify; and he or she may in like manner by
proclamation and order permit sleeping on such days as he or she shall specify,
on any of the benches and any of the grassed lands of the Common or other
public grounds, except the Public Garden. Nothing contained in this Subsection
or in Subsection 16-19.4 shall be held to prohibit the doing of any act in the
reasonable performance of his or her work or employment by any person acting
under the authority or direction of any Board or Officer in charge of any of
the places described in this Subsection.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 340; Ord. 1977 c. 11; CBC 1985 16-19.1)
16-19.2   Public Addresses, Vending and the Like.
   No person shall, in any of the public grounds, use any device intended to
amplify or broadcast sound using a megaphone, loud speaker or any other
amplification device, expose for sale goods, wares or merchandise, erect or
maintain a booth, stand, tent or apparatus for purposes of public amusement or
show, except in accordance with a permit from the Mayor, providing, however,
that such permit shall be in addition to any other license or permit required
by law, and that when such use is for commercial purposes, or where admission
to an event, show, exhibition, amusement or the like is restricted to those
making a payment of consideration, which shall include payment, donation or
contribution of money or a thing of value, or surrender of a ticket, voucher,
token or the like, obtained by purchase, for value or as result of a donation
or contribution or the like, the fee shall be that specified in Subsection 18-
1.16(KK), and provided that when the portion of the public ground to be used is
within the Common, the Public Garden or more than 500 persons are expected to
view or attend the same simultaneously and the same is within 1,000 feet of any
dwelling house, such permit shall be invalid unless approved by the Boston City
Council.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 341; Ord. 1977 c. 10; Ord. 1982 c. 40 § 2; CBC 1985 16-
19.2)
16-19.3   Permit for Use of Park Land for Demonstrations.
   (A)   No person or organization shall hold or sponsor a demonstration, as
herein defined, upon park land unless a permit therefor has first been obtained
from the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation. The Commissioner shall honor all
requests for such permits, except that the Commissioner may specify the time,
place and manner of the demonstration in order to accommodate competing demands
for public use of park land and to protect the public safety and convenience.
The permit shall require that the permittee be responsible for restoration,
rehabilitation and cleanup of the park land which is the subject of the permit.
The term DEMONSTRATION shall include demonstrating, picketing, speechmaking,
marching, holding of vigils and all other like forms of conduct which involve
the communication or expression of views or grievances engaged in by one or
more persons, the conduct of which has the effect, intent or propensity to
attract a substantial crowd of onlookers or participants. The term
DEMONSTRATION shall not include casual park land use which does not have the
intent and propensity to attract a substantial crowd of onlookers or
participants.
   (B)   As a condition of permit issuance, the Commissioner shall require in
the nature of a fee the filing of a bond with a satisfactory surety payable to
the Department of Parks and Recreation in an amount sufficient, as determined
by the Commissioner, to cover costs of restoration, rehabilitation and cleanup
of the park land which is the subject of the permit. In lieu of a bond, the
permittee may elect to deposit cash equal to the amount of the required bond.
Any amount not actually used to restore or rehabilitate the park land shall be
returned to the permittee. Whoever violates any provision of this Section shall
be punished by a fine of $300, and shall be liable for the cost of restoration,
rehabilitation and cleanup of the park land used for the demonstration and the
reasonable costs of collection of the fee.
(Ord. 1983 c. 26 § 1; CBC 1985 16-19.3)
16-19.4   Profanity and Other Offenses.
   No person shall, in the Common, Public Garden or other public grounds of the
city, annoy another person; or utter profane, threatening, abusive, obscene or
indecent language or loud outcry; or do any obscene or indecent act; or have
possession of, drink or be under the influence of, intoxicating liquor; or play
any game of chance or have possession of any instrument of gambling; or dig up,
cut, break, deface, defile, ill-use, handle, take or remove any turf, flower,
plant, bush, tree, rock, sign, fence, structure or other thing or part thereof
belonging to the city; or cut, break or remove the ice in or from a pond; or
drive an animal, or suffer an animal in his or her charge to feed or go at
large, except dogs on the Common; or propel any vehicle, except a vehicle
pushed or drawn by hand and designed to convey children; or throw a stone or
other missile; or injure or have possession of a fish, bird or wild animal; or
injure or disturb a bird’s nest or eggs; or set a trap or snare; or drop or
place and suffer to remain paper or other refuse, except in receptacles
designated therefor.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 342; CBC 1985 16-19.4)
16-20   WATER SUPPLY.
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
16-20.1   Use of Water.
   No person shall, without permission of the Commissioner of Public Works,
make an opening in or connection with, or turn on or off or draw off water
from, a water pipe or reservoir owned by the city; or, except in accordance
with a written permit from the Commissioner or in case of fire in the
neighborhood, allow water to be taken from his or her premises, or use water
for any purpose other than that for which he or she pays; or unscrew or open a
hydrant attached to the water pipes of the city; or, except in accordance with
the regulations of the Commissioner, discharge water through a hand-hose. Nor
shall any person interfere with the registering apparatus of a water meter put
in by the city, or damage or injure such meter.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 343; CBC 1985 16-20.1)
16-21   WARD-ROOMS; FANEUIL HALL.
16-21.1   Ward Meetings.
   No persons not included in a call for a meeting held under a permit granted
by the Assistant Commissioner of Real Property and no person, when objection is
made by the majority of the applicants for such permit present at the meeting
or by the presiding Officer at such meeting, shall mark a ballot, or vote, or
remain, at such meeting.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 344; CBC 1985 16-21.1)
16-21.2   Voter Lists.
   No person, other than the Assistant Commissioner of Real Property or some
person by him or her duly authorized, shall carry away or interfere with a copy
of a list of voters posted or hung up in a ward-room.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 345; CBC 1985 16-21.2)
16-21.3   Decorations.
   No person shall put up any decoration in or on Faneuil Hall unless
authorized thereto by an order of the Boston City Council; nor shall any person
so authorized drive any nail or screw into the building or any part thereof in
putting up any decoration.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 346; CBC 1985 16-21.3)
16-22   NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
16-22.1   Regulation Concerning Numbering of Buildings.
   No person shall neglect or refuse to affix to or inscribe on any building
owned by him or her the street number assigned to such building by the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services; nor shall any person affix to or
inscribe on or suffer to remain on any building owned or occupied by him or her
a street number other than the one assigned to such building by the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 347; CBC 1985 16-22.1; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 37) Penalty, see
Subsection 16-23.6
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
16-23   NOTICES AND PLACARDS.
16-23.1   Prior Consent to Post Notices.
   No person shall post up or affix in any manner, paint, print or write, or
cause to be painted, printed or written, a notice, advertisement or bill, upon
a post, pole, fence, wall or building in the city, unless he or she has
previously obtained the consent of the person having possession of such post,
pole, fence, wall or building.
(CBC 1975 Ord. 714 § 348; CBC 1985 16-23.1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-23.2   Removal After Elections.
   No candidate for any public Office shall allow any political notice,
advertisement or bill bearing his or her name to remain posted up or affixed in
any manner to a post, pole, fence, tree, wall, building or other structure in
the city, beyond 30 days after the election in which he or she was a candidate,
without having previously obtained the written consent of the person having
possession of such post, pole, fence, tree, wall, building or other structure.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 349; CBC 1985 16-23.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-23.3   Posting in Public Places.
   No person shall, without the consent of the Mayor, post up, or affix in any
manner, or paint, print or write, or cause to be painted, printed or written, a
notice, advertisement or bill, upon a curbstone, sidewalk, tree, telegraph-
pole, lamp-post or hydrant, in a street or public place, or upon a walk, fence
or building belonging to the city.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 350; CBC 1985 16-23.3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-23.4   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 351; CBC 1985 16-23.4; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c.5 § 41)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-24   JUNK AND SECOND-HAND ARTICLES.
16-24.1   Business Hours.
   No person keeping a shop for the purchase, sale or barter of junk, old
metals or second-hand articles shall purchase any of the aforesaid articles or
have his or her shop open for the transaction of business, except between
sunrise and 9:00 p.m. of any week day except Saturday, on which day such shop
may be kept open, and such articles purchased, from sunrise until 10:00 p.m.;
and no such person or junk collector shall, directly or indirectly, either
purchase or receive by way of barter or exchange any junk, old metals or
second-hand articles from a minor or apprentice, knowing or having reason to
believe him or her to be such.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 352; CBC 1985 16-24.1)
16-25   OBSCENE AND PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
16-25.1   Fine for Selling.
   Whoever sells, or distributes, or imports, or loans, or possesses with the
intent to sell, or exhibits, prints or publishes for the purpose of selling or
distributing a book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, phonographic record,
print, picture, figure, image or description which depicts or describes:
   (A)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; or
   (B)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation,
excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for each day on which such violation occurs or during which such
violation continues.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 353; CBC 1985 16-25.1)
Editor’s note:
   This Section was passed in 1973, under the guidelines established in Miller
v. California, 441 U.S. 925, 37 L. Ed 2d 419, (June 21, 1973).
16-26   UNREASONABLE NOISE.
16-26.1   General Prohibition and Definitions.
   (A)   No person shall make, or cause to be made, any unreasonable or
excessive noise in the city, by whatever means or from whatever means or from
whatever source.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      dBa. A-weighted sound level in decibels, as measured by a general purpose
sound level meter complying with the provisions of the American National
Standards Institute, “Specifications for Sound Level Meters (ANSI S1.4 1971)”,
properly calibrated, and operated on the “A” weighting network.
      LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE OR SIMILAR EQUIPMENT. A radio, television,
phonograph, stereo, record player, tape player, cassette player, compact disc
player, loud speaker or sound amplifier which is operated in such a manner that
it creates unreasonable or excessive noise.
      UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
      (1)   Noise measured in excess of 50 dBa between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., or in excess of 70 dBa at all other hours; or
      (2)   In the absence of an applicable noise level standard or regulation
of the Air Pollution Control Commission, any noise plainly audible at a
distance of 300 feet or, in the case of loud amplification devices or similar
equipment, noise plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from its source by a
person of normal hearing.
(CBC 1985 16-26.1; Ord. 714 § 354; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 1) Penalty, see Subsection
16-32.6
16-26.2   Unreasonable Noise-Making Automobile Safety Devices.
   The use, maintenance, installation or keeping of any device whose purpose it
is to protect an owner’s vehicle from damage and/or theft through the
mechanical creation of a noise of sufficient magnitude to be plainly audible at
a distance of 200 feet from such device which does not automatically terminate
any such noise within five minutes shall be unlawful. Penalty for violation of
this Section shall be a fine of $50. This Section shall be deemed a part of the
Environment Protection Ordinances, so called, and shall be enforced pursuant to
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D.
(Ord. 1984 c. 4; [354a]; CBC 1985 16-26.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-26.3   Unreasonable Noise From Automobile Safety Devices.
   The use of any device whose purpose it is to protect an owner’s vehicle from
damage and/or theft through the mechanical creation of a noise of sufficient
magnitude to be plainly audible at a distance of 200 feet from such device
which does not automatically terminate any such noise within five minutes shall
be declared an unlawful use of a noise making instrument. The penalty for
violation of this Section shall be $50 and shall be in compliance with the
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D. This Section shall be deemed a
part of the Environment Protection Ordinances, so called.
(Ord. 1984 c. 5 § 1 [354b]; CBC 1985 16-26.3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-26.4   Regulation of Construction Hours.
   No erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building and excavation
in regard thereto, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on
weekdays or except in the interest of public safety or welfare, upon the
issuance of and pursuant to an Off Hours Permit from the Commissioner,
Inspectional Services Department, which may be renewed for one or more periods
of not exceeding one week each. Any person violating this Section hereof shall
be punished by a fine of $300 for each offense. All fines issued under this
Section may be recovered by the noncriminal disposition procedures promulgated
in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D. Each day shall constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 1984 c.10 § 1 [354c]; CBC 1985 16-26.4; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 38; Ord. 2016 c.
8 §§ 1-4)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9.9 of this Code).
16-26.5   Noise Levels at Residential Lot Lines.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except in emergencies by Public Utility
Companies to operate any construction device(s), including, but not limited to,
impact devices, on any construction site if the operation of such device(s)
emits noise, measured at the lot line of a residential lot in excess of 50 dBa
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1985 c. 3 § 1 [354d]; CBC 1985 16-26.5) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.6
16-26.6   Disturbing the Peace.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons in a residential area
within the city to disturb the peace by causing or allowing to be made any
unreasonable or excessive noise, including, but not limited to, such noise
resulting from the operation of any radio, phonograph or sound related
producing device or instrument, or from the playing of any band or orchestra,
or from the use of any device to amplify the aforesaid noise, or from the
making of excessive outcries, exclamations or loud singing or any other
excessive noise by a person or group of persons, or from the use of any device
to amplify such noise; provided, however, that any performance, concert,
establishment, band, group or person who has received and maintains a valid
license or permit from any Department, Board or Commission of the city
authorized to issue such license or permit shall be exempt from the provisions
of this Section. UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE shall be defined as noise
measured in excess of 50 dBa between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or
in excess of 70 dBa at all other hours when measured not closer than the lot
line of a residential lot or from the nearest affected dwelling unit. The term
dBa shall mean the A-weighted sound level in decibels, as measured by a general
purpose sound level meter complying with the provisions of the American
National Standards Institute, “Specifications for Sound Level Meters (ANSI S1.4
1971)”, properly calibrated, and operated on the “A” weighting network.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by such disturbance of the peace may complain to
the Police about such unreasonable or excessive noise. The Police, in response
to each complaint, shall verify by use of the sound level meter described
herein that the noise complained of does exceed the limit described herein and
if so, may thereupon arrest and/or make application in the appropriate court
for issuance of a criminal complaint for violation of M.G.L. Chapter 272,
Section 53, which sets forth the penalties for disturbing the peace.
(CBC 1985 16-26.6; Ord. 1986 c.19 §§ 1, 2 [354e]; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 2) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.6
16-26.7   Prohibition Against Certain Sound Devices in Motor Vehicles.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any area of the city to operate
a loud amplification device or similar equipment, as defined in Subsection 16-
26.1, in or on a motor vehicle which is either moving or standing in a public
way.
   (B)   No person shall operate or use on any public right-of-way any
electronically operated or electronic sound signal device attached to, on or in
a motor vehicle from which food or any other items are sold, or offered for,
sale when the vehicle is stopped, standing or parked. This Subsection shall not
apply to sound signal devices used as a safety device, such as, but not limited
to, a car horn or back-up signal that is actually used for its intended
purpose. For the purposes of this division (B), the term STOPPED means the
halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with a Police Officer or other
authorized Enforcement Officer or a traffic control sign or signal. For
purposes of this subdivision, the terms STANDING and PARKED shall be as defined
in the city’s Traffic Rules and Regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-26.7; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 2008 c. 7) Penalty, see Subsection
16-26.11, 16-32.6
16-26.8   Prohibition Against Loud Amplification Devices in Public Ways or
Places.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any area of the city to operate a
loud amplification device or similar equipment, as defined in Subsection 16-
26.1, in a public way or in any other public place.
(CBC 1985 16-26.8; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-26.11, 16-
32.6
16-26.9   Prohibition Against Loud Amplification Devices in or on Residential
Premises.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any area of the city to operate a
loud amplification device or similar equipment, as defined in Subsection 16-
26.1, in a dwelling house or on the land or other premises of such dwelling
house.
(CBC 1985 16-26.9; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-26.11, 16-
32.6
16-26.10   Enforcement.
   Subsections 16-26.7, 16-26.8 or 16-26.9 may be enforced by any Police
Officer, any special Police Officer designated by the Commissioner to do so, by
any designee of the Air Pollution Control Commission or of the Board of Health
and Hospitals or of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. The Housing
Court may enjoin violation of these Subsections.
(CBC 1985 16-26.10; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1995 c. 5)
16-26.11   Penalties.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates Subsections 16-26.7, 16-26.8 or 16-26.9
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period, $100 and for
the second violation in any 12-month period and $200 for the third violation
and each subsequent violation in any 12-month period. The enforcing person
shall make a record of the complaint, such record to include the following
information, to the extent that it is available:
         (a)   Name and address of person in violation;
         (b)   Name and address of landlord of person in violation, if
applicable;
         (c)   Date of violation;
         (d)   Time of violation;
         (e)   Location of violation;
         (f)   Source of violation; and
         (g)   Motor vehicle registration number, if applicable. If the person
in violation refuses to provide the above-required information or if any
information provided proves to be false, then said person shall be punished by
a fine of an additional $100.
   (B)   (1)   The Air Pollution Control Commission shall keep and make
available to the public and all persons authorized to enforce these provisions,
and the certification or the information there appearing by an enforcing
official to a court shall establish a rebuttable presumption of the accuracy
thereof.
      (2)   No person, being the landlord or person in charge of a residential
structure shall permit, allow or suffer repeated violations of these ordinances
after notice thereof and shall be fined at the time of the third such violation
and at the time of every violation thereafter within 12 months of the first
violation by a fine of $150 and by a fine of $300 for each violation
thereafter. It shall be a defense that the landlord or person in charge of a
residential structure has made and documented good faith efforts, including,
but not limited to, the seeking of a court order, to prevent violations.
      (3)   For all other violations of these Sections, the penalties for such
violations are:
         (a)   For the first violation in any 12-month period, $100;
         (b)   For the second violation in any 12-month period, $200; and
         (c)   For the third violation and each subsequent violation in any 12-
month period, $300.
   (D)   (1)   The enforcing person shall provide a person in violation with a
written notice of the violation and fine. If applicable, a copy of each notice
of violation shall be sent to the person in violation’s landlord and to the
school, college or university at which the person in violation is enrolled.
      (2)   All fines issued under these Sections may be recovered by the
noncriminal disposition procedures promulgated in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section
21D, which procedures are incorporated herein by reference; provided, however,
that if a person in violation fails to follow the procedures and requirements
of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, then the fine or fines shall be recovered by
indictment or by complaint pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 41.
(CBC 1985 16-26.12; Ord. 1991 c. 4, § 3; Ord. 1995 c. 5; Ord. 2003 c. 19 §§ 1,
2, 3)
16-26.12   Arrest and Seizure of Property.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance of the city, if
a person is arrested by a Boston Police Officer under the authority of the
M.G.L., including, without limitation, the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 272,
Section 54 for disturbing the peace under M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 53, or
any applicable M.G.L., the arresting Officer may, pursuant to said M.G.L.,
seize any loud amplification device or similar equipment, as defined in
Subsection 16-26.1, as evidence. In the event of such seizure for evidence by a
Boston Police Officer incident to such arrest, such amplification device or
similar equipment shall be inventoried and held by the Boston Police Department
or its Agents, and shall be returned to its owner according to the terms of
this Section, unless a court of competent jurisdiction orders otherwise.
   (B)   The Arresting Officer, in addition to any other reports or procedures
required of him or her, shall give the person claiming to be the owner of said
loud amplification device or similar equipment a receipt indicating where, when
and for what reason said device or equipment was seized, and for what purpose
it is being held. Copies of said receipt shall be filed in the Boston Police
Department and shall be made available to the court. No receipt shall be
redeemed and no such device or equipment shall be returned to any person unless
and until all judicial proceedings that may be held regarding the criminal
allegations shall have been finally completed; provided, however, that if a
motor vehicle shall be seized incident to an arrest, such motor vehicle may be
returned to its registered owner if said loud amplification device or equipment
has been duly removed therefrom with the written permission of the registered
owner of said motor vehicle. In such cases, the Boston Police Department shall
provide said owner with a receipt for the removed device or equipment as herein
provided.
(CBC 1985 16-26.12; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3)
16-26.13   Exemptions.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of Section 16-26 and shall
not be considered unreasonable or excessive noise for purposes of this Section:
   (A)   Noise from law enforcement motor vehicles;
   (B)   Noise from emergency vehicles which is emitted during an actual
emergency; or
   (C)   Noise which a person is making or causing to be made where such person
has received and maintains a valid license or permit therefor from any
Department, Board or Commission of the city authorized to issue such license or
permit; provided, however, that such noise shall be permitted only to the
extent allowed by the license or permit.
(CBC 1985 16-26.13; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 3)
16-26.14   Severability.
   If any provision or Subsection of this Section shall be held to be invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision or Subsection shall
be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions or Subsections
of this Section, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-26.14; Ord. 1991 c. 4 § 4)
16-27   NUISANCE CONTROL.
16-27.1   Purpose.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city, this Section shall permit the city to impose liability on property owners
and other responsible persons for the nuisances and harm caused by unruly
gatherings on private property and shall prohibit the consumption of alcoholic
beverages by underage persons at such gatherings.
(CBC 1985 16-27.1; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVICTION. Actively trying to evict a tenant from a premise by delivery of a
notice to quit and subsequent court proceedings, if a tenant fails to vacate
the premises.
   GATHERING. A party or event where two or more persons have assembled for a
social occasion or social activity.
   PREMISES. Any residence or other private property, place or location,
including any commercial or business property.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The legal owner of record of a premises as listed by the tax
assessor’s records.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A gathering of persons on any premises in a manner which
constitutes a violation of law or creates a substantial disturbance of the
quiet enjoyment of private or public property in a neighborhood. Behavior
constituting a PUBLIC NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, excessive
noise, obstruction of public ways by crowds or vehicles, illegal parking, the
service of alcohol to underage persons, fights and disturbances of the peace.
(CBC 1985 16-27.1; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.3   Mailing of Notice to Property Owners and Others.
   If a Police Officer or other local officials have responded to a gathering
constituting a public nuisance as defined pursuant to Subsection 16-27.2, the
Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, or designee, shall inform the
Inspectional Services Department. The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department, or his or her designee, shall cause a notice of response to be made
within 30 days of the gathering as follows.
   (A)   Notice of response shall be mailed by certified mail to the property
owner(s) of the premises where the gathering occurred as listed on the property
tax assessment records. The notice shall advise the property owner(s) that the
second response on the same premises within a one-year period, as measured from
the date of the first notice, shall result in liability of the property owner.
   (B)   Notice of response shall be sent by mail or other appropriate means to
any person who was personally cited at the time of the offense. The notice
shall be sent to the address stated on the individuals’ government issued
identification.
   (C)   Notice of response shall be sent to the president/headmaster, or his
or her designee, of an educational institution if the persons who are liable
under Subsections 16-27.4 and 16-27.5 are students at such educational
institution. The notice shall be sent by mail or other appropriate means.
(CBC 1985 16-27.3; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.4   Liability for a First Response to a Gathering.
   (A)   If the Boston Police Department or other local officials have
responded to a gathering constituting a public nuisance on a premises under the
provisions of this Section or Subsections, the following persons shall be
jointly or severally liable for fines as set forth below; provided that no
previous gathering constituting a public nuisance has occurred at the premises
within the previous one-year period:
      (1)   The person or persons residing on or otherwise in control of the
premises where such gathering took place whether present or not;
      (2)   The person or persons who organized or sponsored such gathering;
and
      (3)   All persons attending such gatherings who engage in any activity
resulting in the public nuisance as defined pursuant to Subsection 16-27.2.
   (B)   In lieu of issuing a fine(s), a Police Officer may issue a written
warning if the response to the complaint occurs prior to 10:00 p.m.
(CBC 1985 16-27.4; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.5   Liability for a Second or Subsequent Response to a Gathering
Constituting a Public Nuisance.
   If the Boston Police Department is required to respond to a gathering
constituting a public nuisance pursuant to Subsection 16-27.2 more than once in
any one-year period, as measured from the date of the first response, the
following persons shall be jointly and severally liable for fines as set forth
below.
   (A)   The person or persons residing on or otherwise in control of the
premises where such gathering took place whether present or not.
   (B)   The person or persons who organized or sponsored such gathering.
   (C)   All persons attending such gathering who engage in any activity
resulting in a public nuisance pursuant to Subsection 16-27.2.
   (D)   The person, persons or business entity which at the time of the
gathering owned the premises where the gathering constituting the public
nuisance pursuant to Subsection 16-27.2 occurred; provided that notice of the
first and subsequent responses has been mailed to the property owner of the
premises as set forth herein and the gathering occurs at least 14 days after
the mailing of the first notice. The property owner of the premises shall not
be held responsible for any violation and penalties if the property owner is
employing reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Boston Police Department or
other local officials. “Reasonable efforts” shall include, but not be limited
to, the following: notifying the Commissioner, or his or her designee, in
writing of the owner’s willingness to cooperate with the Police or other local
officials; returning all telephonic and written inquiries from the Boston
Police Department or other local officials in a timely manner; retention of a
security service or a Police detail; issuance of written warning(s) to the
occupants of the owner’s intention to seek eviction for further public
nuisances; and, the inclusion of a security rider in a lease agreement. The
property owner of the premises shall not be held responsible for any violation
and penalties if the property owner is actively pursuing eviction from the
premises of a tenant who controlled, organized, sponsored or attended the
gathering. The one-year time period for violations for a premises shall pertain
only to the same residents occupying the premises who have had prior violation
(s). New residents shall start a new time cycle of one year.
(CBC 1985 16-27.5; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.6   Enforcement.
   (A)   The provisions of Subsections 16-27.4 and 16-27.5 may be enforced in
accordance with the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D. The provisions of this Section may also be enforced according to
M.G.L. Chapter 40U as accepted by the city, also known as the “Green Ticket”
Law. The enforcing persons shall be any authorized Law Enforcement Officer of
the Boston Police Department. A fine of $100 for the first response shall be
imposed to such person(s) cited; and, a fine of $300 for the second and
subsequent response(s) shall be imposed to such person or persons cited.
   (B)   Such person(s) or a business entity cited pursuant to these provisions
shall have 14 days to request a hearing to contest violations of these
Sections.
   (C)   The provisions of this Section are enforceable without reference to
the provisions of Subsection 16-26.6, disturbing the peace, and without
reference to the fact that the Police Officer issuing a citation has not
obtained a scientific noise measurement prior to issuing the citation. No such
scientific noise measurement is required under the provisions of this Section
and the lack of a noise measurement shall not constitute a defense.
(CBC 1985 16-27.6; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-27.7   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-27.7; Ord. 2012 c. 8 § 1)
16-28   JITNEY LICENSES.
16-28.1   Requirement.
   No person, firm or corporation shall, in the city, operate any motor vehicle
upon any public way, for the carriage of passengers for hire, in such a manner
as to afford a means of transportation similar to that afforded by a railway
company, by indiscriminately receiving and discharging passengers along the
route on which the vehicle is operated or may be running, or for transporting
passengers for hire as a business between fixed and regular termini, without
first obtaining a license therefor from the Boston City Council, and unless
such license is in force according to the provisions of and subject to this and
the following Subsections. Such license shall be subject to revocation at any
time by order of the Boston City Council. Whenever the word LICENSEE is used in
this and the following Subsections, it shall mean the person, firm or
corporation licensed under this Subsection.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 356; CBC 1985 16-28.1)
16-28.2   Publication and Notice.
   No person shall prosecute a petition to the Boston City Council for a
license under M.G.L. Chapter 159A, Section 1 unless, at his or her own expense,
he or she has caused to be published, in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the city, at least seven days before the public hearing to be held
by the proper committee of the Boston City Council, a notice of the time and
place of such hearing, nor unless at his or her own expense he or she has also
sent by registered mail not less than seven days before such hearing a copy of
such notice to the Police Commissioner, the Metropolitan Transit Authority and
such persons as shall file with the Clerk of Committees a written request for
noticed under this Subsection.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 357; CBC 1985 16-28.2; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 39)
16-28.3   Route.
   No licensee shall so operate any such motor vehicle except between such
termini and over such route and with such stopping places as shall be specified
by the Boston City Council in the license granted under the provisions of
Subsection 16-28.1, and except in case of emergency, the licensee shall not
deviate from the specifications of said license without the approval of the
Boston City Council.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 358; CBC 1985 16-28.3)
16-28.4   Fare.
   No licensee shall charge, demand, collect or receive a greater, or less, or
different compensation for the transportation of passengers or for any service
in connection therewith, than the rates, fares and charges applicable to such
transportation as specified in the license granted by the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 359; CBC 1985 16-28.4)
16-28.5   Information to Passengers.
   No such motor vehicle shall be used or operated without a printed sign
thereon stating the termini of the route, the fare to be charged and the
license number, which sign shall be so printed and attached to the motor
vehicle as to be plainly visible to persons on the street, or without a printed
sign thereon showing the schedule of service filed and in effect at the time,
which sign shall be so printed and attached to the said motor vehicle as to be
plainly visible to passengers boarding such motor vehicle.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 360; CBC 1985 16-28.5)
16-28.6   Number of Passengers.
   The license issued for such motor vehicle shall designate the number of
passengers, exclusive of the operator, the licensee is authorized to carry in
said vehicle, and no person driving or in charge of said vehicle shall take on
or suffer or permit any more persons to ride or to be carried thereon at any
one time than the number designated in the license, or permit any person to
stand inside or to stand or sit upon any running board, steps, fender, dash or
hood thereof, or permit any person to ride on such motor vehicle outside the
body thereof; provided, however, that in addition to the number of passengers
which said motor vehicle by the terms of its license is permitted to carry,
children under seven years of age may be carried therein, in arms, or seated on
the laps of adult persons accompanying them, but no passenger with a child in
arms or seated on the lap shall be permitted on any front seat of the vehicle.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 361; CBC 1985 16-28.6)
16-28.7   Operation.
   The schedule of operation filed by the licensee shall provide for the
regular operation of a motor vehicle between the termini and over the route
designated in the license. The licensee shall regularly operate a motor vehicle
in substantial accordance with the schedule of operation filed and in effect at
the time, except in cases of accident, breakdown or other controlling
emergency, shall operate such motor vehicle to the terminus of the route before
turning around, and shall not operate nor permit to be operated any such motor
vehicle off or away from the route stated and fixed in the license for the
operation of such motor vehicle except in case of controlling emergency.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the operation, in addition to the
service described in the schedule on file and in effect at the time, of special
or extra trips over said route and between said termini during certain hours or
on special occasions.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T 14 § 362; CBC 1985 16-28.7)
16-28.8   Carriage of Passengers.
   No person operating any motor vehicle so licensed shall refuse to carry any
person offering himself or herself at any regular stopping place for carriage,
unless the seats of such vehicle are fully occupied, or unless such person is
in an intoxicated condition, or conducting himself or herself in a boisterous
or disorderly manner, or is using profane language.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 363; CBC 1985 16-28.8)
16-28.9   Lighting and the Like.
   No motor vehicle so licensed shall be operated from one-half hour after
sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, with the top and curtain of said
vehicle up, or while said vehicle is otherwise enclosed, unless there be
sufficient light provided to adequately light the whole of the interior of said
vehicle; and all motor vehicles so licensed with a seating capacity of more
than seven passengers shall come to a full stop immediately before crossing the
tracks of any railroad at grade.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 364; CBC 1985 16-28.9)
16-28.10   Conduct of Operators.
   No person operating any motor vehicle so licensed shall collect fares, make
change or take on or discharge passengers while such vehicle is in motion; nor
shall he or she have a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in his or her
possession while any passenger is being carried therein, nor drink any
intoxicating beverage or use morphine, cocaine, opium or other harmful drug of
any kind, or be under the influence thereof while engaged in operating such
vehicle.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 365; CBC 1985 16-28.10)
16-29   OPEN-AIR THEATERS.
16-29.1   Open-Air Projection.
   No person shall project a motion picture upon any screen in the open air on
any estate in the city to which admission is obtained upon the payment of money
or the delivery of any valuable thing or by a ticket or voucher obtained for
money or any valuable thing if such screen is open to view from a public or
private way or an adjacent estate or from any part of a building or other
structure in the vicinity.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 366; CBC 1985 16-29.1)
Editor’s note:
   Enforcement preliminary enjoined. Northeast Theatre, Inc. v. McNamara,
U.S.D.C. of Mass. #72-1558-F.
16-30   ABANDONMENT OF AUTOMOBILES.
16-30.1   Abandoned, Unregistered or Uninsured Vehicles.
   (A)   Abandoned cars or automotive parts prohibited. No person shall place
an automobile or any automobile parts upon public or private land for the
purpose of abandonment.
   (B)   Unregistered and/or uninsured vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall place, store or keep more than one unregistered
automobile, truck, trailer, moped and/or motorcycle that is required to be
registered under the laws or regulations of the commonwealth, including, but
not limited to, M.G.L. Chapter 90, upon public or private land zoned for
residential purposes of six or fewer residential units.
      (2)   No person shall place, store or keep more than one uninsured
automobile, truck, trailer, moped and/or motorcycle that is required to be
insured under the laws or regulations of the commonwealth, including, but not
limited to, M.G.L. Chapter 90, upon public or private land zoned for
residential purposes of six or fewer residential units.
      (3)   This Section shall not apply to vehicles stored within a fully-
enclosed building or to vehicles stored, parked or displayed on property duly
licensed in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 140, Sections 57 through 69.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   The first violation of this Subsection in any calendar year shall
be issued a warning with the instructions to remediate the violation by
registering, insuring or removing the motor vehicle in violation within ten
business days of the issuance of the violation.
      (2)   A violation of this Subsection shall be subject to a fine of $300.
Each week that a violation remains uncorrected shall be a separate and distinct
violation. Any fines that remain unpaid for more than 12 months may become
liens against the real estate at which the violation(s) occurred.
      (3)   The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to
enforce these Sections.
   (D)   Enforcement and regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the
Inspectional Services Department, the Commissioner of the Public Works
Department, the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department and the
Commissioner of the Boston Transportation Department shall have the authority
to enforce these Sections and to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
implement and enforce these Sections.
   (E)   Applicability. If any provision of these Sections imposes greater
restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law,
special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy, then the provisions
of these Sections shall control.
   (F)   Severability. If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 367; CBC 1985 16-30.1; Ord. 2006 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2014 c. 1
§ 3)
16-31   RODENT AND INSECT PREVENTION MEASURES AT CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   In the city, no building permit shall be issued for renovation, conversion
or new construction until the applicant shows evidence the premises have been
treated for, or are free from insects and rodents in compliance with the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.550. The applicant shall be held
responsible for corrective measures should his or her construction, renovation
or conversion work cause infestation to immediate abutters.
(Ord. 1982 c. 38 § 1; CBC 1985 16-31)
Cross-reference:
   Section 17-10
16-32   FINES.
16-32.1   Generally.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of Subsections 16-9.1, 16-12.8, 16-
12.9, shall, unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, be punished by a fine
not exceeding $50 for each offense for a violation of any provision of this
Chapter. Any person violating Subsection 16-2.3 shall be punished by a fine of
$200. Any person violating any other provision of this Chapter or Chapter XVII
or Chapter XVIII shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $20 for such
offense, and not only the person actually doing the prohibited thing, but also
his or her employer and every other person concerned in so doing shall be
punished by such fine.
   (B)   Each day or part thereof of violation of any provision of any Section
of this Chapter, whether such violation be continuous or intermittent, shall be
construed as a separate and succeeding offense.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 368; Ord. 1982 c. 23 s 2; Ord. 1984 c. 22; CBC 1985 16-
32.1; Ord. 1988 c. 15 § 2A, 3; Ord. 1994 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2007 c. 7 § 2; Ord.
2008 c. 3)
16-32.2   Drinking of Alcoholic Beverages in Public, Fine.
   Any person violating any provision of Subsection 16-12.28 shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $200.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 368A, Ord. 1982 c. 23 § 3; CBC 1985 16-32.2)
16-32.3   Alternative Noncriminal Disposition of Violations of Subsection 16-
1.9, 16-1.9B, 16-12.7 and 16-32.4.
   (A)   Subsections 16-1.9, 16-1.9B and 16-12.7 shall be enforced by the
Commissioner of Health and Hospitals and his or her authorized Agents, by the
Commissioner of Housing Inspection and his or her authorized Agents, by all
Police Officers, by all special Police Officers including parking meter
supervisors, so called, appointed under the provisions of Chapter 282 of the
Acts of 1898, as amended, and by the Animal Control Officer appointed under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 151 or the domestic charitable corporation, from
time to time, performing by contract the duties of Animal Control Officer in
accordance with said Section 151, and by the authorized Agents of such Animal
Control Officer or such domestic charitable corporation and the Animal Care and
Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department. If any Officer empowered
to enforce Subsections 16-1.9 and 16-12.7 takes cognizance of a violation
thereof, he or she may, as an alternative to instituting criminal proceedings,
forthwith give to the offender a written notice to appear before the Clerk of
the District Court having jurisdiction at any time during Office hours, not
later than 21 days after the date of such violation. Such notice shall be in
triplicate and shall contain the name and address of the offender, the specific
offense charged and the time and place for his or her required appearance. Such
notice shall be signed by the Officer, and shall be signed by the offender
whenever practicable in acknowledgment that such notice has been received. The
Officer shall if possible deliver to the offender at the time and place of the
violation a copy of said notice. Whenever it is not possible to deliver a copy
of said notice to the offender at the time and place of the violation said copy
shall be mailed or delivered by the Officer, or by his or her Commanding
Officer, or by the Head of his or her Department, or by any person authorized
by such Commanding Officer or Head of Department, to the offender’s last known
address, or to the address of the owner of the dog as it may appear on the
collar of such dog or as it may appear on the application for a license for
such dog in the records of the Police Commissioner, within five days thereof,
exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. Such notice as so mailed
shall be deemed a sufficient notice, and a certificate of the Officer or person
so mailing such notice that it has been mailed in accordance with this
Subsection shall be prima facie evidence thereof. At or before the completion
of each tour of duty the Officer shall give to his or her Commanding Officer or
Department Head those copies of each notice of such a violation he or she has
taken cognizance of during such tour which have not already been delivered or
mailed by him or her as aforesaid. The Commanding Officer or Department Head
shall retain and safely preserve one of the copies and shall, at a time not
later than the next court day after such delivery or mailing, deliver another
of such copies to the Clerk of the Court before whom the offender has been
notified to appear.
   (B)   Any person notified to appear before the Clerk of a District Court as
hereinbefore provided may appear before such Clerk and confess the offense
charged, either personally or through an Agent duly authorized in writing, or
by mailing to such Clerk, with the notice, the sum of $50, such payment to be
made only by postal note, money order or check. Payment to such Clerk of such
sum shall operate as a final disposition of the case. Proceedings under this
division (B) shall not be deemed criminal; and no person notified to appear
before the Clerk of a District Court as provided herein shall be required to
report to any Probation Officer, and no record of the case shall be entered in
the probation records.
   (C)   If any person so notified to appear before the Clerk of a District
Court fails to appear and pay the fine provided hereunder or, having appeared,
desires not to avail himself or herself of the procedure hereinbefore provided
for the non-criminal disposition of the case, the Clerk shall, as soon as may
be, notify the Officer concerned, who shall forthwith make a complaint and
follow the procedure established for violations of these Ordinances.
   (D)   As used in this Section the term “District Court” shall include, with
the limits of its jurisdiction, the Boston Municipal Court.
   (E)   The notice to appear provided herein shall be printed in such form as
may be satisfactory to the Chief Justice of the Boston Municipal Court and to
the Administrative Committee of the District Courts as created by M.G.L.
Chapter 218, Section 43A.
   (F)   The provisions of this Subsection are severable, and if any of the
provisions of this Subsection shall be held unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court
shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 369; Ord. 1979 c. 35; CBC 1985 16-32.3; Ord. 1996 c. 8 §
3-5; Ord. 2000 c. 4 §§ 3-5; Ord. 2004 c.4 § 2; Ord. 2014 c. 15 §§ 15-17; Ord.
2019 c. 4 § 13)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
16-32.4   Enforcement of Certain Sections.
   City of Boston, Ordinances, Subsection 16-1.8 through Subsection 16-1.20A;
Subsection 16-1.24; Subsection 16-1.26; Section 16-4A; Section 16-8A;
Subsection 16-12.2A; Subsection 16-12.5 through Subsection 16-12.23; and
Subsection 16-22.1 through Subsection 16-23.4 may be enforced in accordance
with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D as inserted by St. 1977,
Chapter 401.
(Ord. 1977 c.16; CBC 1985 16-32.4; Ord. 1986 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1986 c. 8 § 1; Ord.
1986 c. 10 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 15 § 6; Ord. 1988 c. 17 § 2; Ord. 2003 c. 19 § 3)
16-32.5   Enforcement in Accordance with Massachusetts General Law.
   Any person taking cognizance of a violation of the Sections of this Code set
forth in Subsection 16-32.4 hereof which he or she is empowered to enforce by
statute, ordinance or by appointment as special Police Officer may enforce said
ordinances in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D as inserted by St.
1977, Chapter 401.
(Ord. 1977 c. 16 [371]; CBC 1985 16-32.5)
16-32.6   Violations; Fine Established.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of the Sections enumerated in
Subsection 16-32.4 hereof shall be punished by a fine of $10 for each offense
except that the following so-enumerated Sections shall carry the following
penalties for violations thereof; and not only the person actually doing the
prohibited thing, but also his or her employer and every other person concerned
in so doing shall be punished by such fine.
      (1)   Subsection 16-1.14: $300;
      (2)   Subsection 16-1.17: $50;
      (3)   Subsection 16-1.19A: For the first violation in any 12-month
period: $50, for the second violation within 12 months of a prior violation:
$100 and for the third or subsequent violation within 12 months of a prior
violation: $200;
      (4)   Subsection 16-2.5: $100;
      (5)   Subsection 16-2.7: $200;
      (6)   Subsection 16-4A: For the first violation in any 12-month period:
$50, for the second or consequent violation: $200;
      (7)   Subsection 16-8.1: $300;
      (8)   Subsection 16-12.2A: $50, except that for the second violation
within 12 months of a prior violation: $100, and, for the third or subsequent
violation within 12 months of a prior violation: $200;
      (9)   Subsection 16-12.7: $15;
      (10)   Subsection 16-12.8: $25;
      (11)   Subsection 16-12.14: $50;
      (12)   Subsection 16-12.19: $15;
      (13)   Subsection 16-23.1: $300; and
      (14)   Subsection 16-23.3: $300.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 30 who violates any of the foregoing
provisions may, on application to, and approval by, the Judge hearing a
complaint with respect to such violation, or any Judge of the Court to which
the notice under M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D is returnable (as the case may
be) in lieu of paying such fine, perform such public service reasonably related
to the violation as the Judge shall require and upon completion of such public
work, the fine shall be reduced by $5 for each such hour of service, to the
extent of such fine.
(Ord. 1977 c. 16; CBC 1985 16-32.6; Ord. 1986 c. 1 § 4; Ord. 1986 c. 8 § 1;
Ord. 1986 c. 10 § 2; Ord. 1988 c. 15 §§ 6, 7; Ord. 1988 c. 17 § 3; Ord. 1994 c.
2 § 1; Ord. 1994 c. 12 § 3; Ord. 1999 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 2003 c. 19 § 3; Ord. 2007
c. 7 § 3; Ord. 2008 c. 3; Ord. 2008 c. 4)
16-32.7   Enforcement of Certain Environmental Protection Ordinances.
   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services, and any designee, of said
Commissioner, be, and hereby is, authorized pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D to enforce (in addition to those heretofore authorized to enforce)
all of the Sections of the ordinances cited in Subsection 16-32.4; Boston
Police Rule 401 (CBC St. Title 14, s 164); Subsection 16-12.3; Subsections 16-
33.2 and 16-33.7.
(Ord. 1983 c. 22 § 1; Ord. 1983 c. 24 § 1; CBC 1985 16-32.7)
16-33   SIGNS, AWNINGS AND THE LIKE.
16-33.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGN. Any sign, structure, device, light, letter, word, clock, model,
banner, pennant, insignia, trade flag or representation designed to be seen
from outside a building and capable of, or, in fact, advertising or announcing
a use conducted, or goods, products, services or facilities, except legal
displays of flags, emblems or insignia of our nation or any political
subdivision thereof, and except the following if not projecting over a parkway,
other way under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, or public
way:
      (1)   Temporary for sale or for rent signs located on the property
advertised;
      (2)   Temporary display posters without independent structural support,
in connection with political campaigns or with noncommercial civic, health,
safety or welfare campaigns, unless not removed within 30 days following the
conclusion of the campaign;
      (3)   Temporary displays of a patriotic, religious, charitable or civic
nature;
      (4)   Historical or scenic markers approved by a recognized historical or
conservation agency; and
      (5)   Signs not prohibited by any other code or ordinance that identify
only the occupant of a house or the name and business of a professional person.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.1)
16-33.2   Issuance of Number by Appropriate Department.
   No owner or tenant of an estate within the city shall, in view of a parkway,
other way under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or public
way, erect, maintain or suffer to remain any sign, awning, canopy or marquee
upon such estate unless such sign, awning, canopy or marquee bears a currently
valid distinctive number issued with respect to such sign, awning, canopy or
marquee by the Department empowered by this Section.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-33.7
16-33.3   Inspectional Services Department.
   The Inspectional Services Department shall issue distinctive numbers to all
signs, awnings, canopies or marquees complying with the applicable provisions
of the Boston Zoning Code, subject to the allowances and exceptions therein
contained, that do not project over a parkway, other way under the control of
the Parks and Recreation Commission or public way. The Commissioner of
Inspectional Services shall promulgate such regulations as reasonably necessary
to ensure compliance with this Section including, but not limited to, number
size requirements.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.3)
16-33.4   Public Works Department.
   The Public Works Department shall issue distinctive numbers upon payment of
the permit fee required by Chapter XVIII to all signs, awnings, canopies or
marquees projecting over a public way and complying with the applicable
provisions of the Boston Zoning Code, subject to the allowances and exceptions
therein contained. The Commissioner of Public Works shall promulgate such
regulations as reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this Section
including, but not limited to, number size requirements.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.4)
16-33.5   Parks and Recreation Commission.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall issue distinctive numbers upon
payment of the permit fee required by Chapter XVIII to all signs, awnings,
canopies or marquees projecting over a parkway or other way under its control
and complying with the applicable provisions of the Boston Zoning Code, subject
to the allowances and exceptions therein contained. The Commission shall
promulgate such regulations as reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with
this Section including, but not limited to, number size requirements.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.5)
16-33.6   Enforcement.
   This Section may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 40, Section 21D as inserted by St. 1977, Chapter 401.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.6)
16-33.7   Fine.
   Any owner or tenant of an estate within the city who erects, maintains or
suffers to remain any sign, awning, canopy or marquee upon such estate in
violation of this Section shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each day such
sign shall remain in violation.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5 s 2; CBC 1985 16-33.7)
16-34   UNLAWFUL TO TAKE REPRISAL AGAINST ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO TESTIFIES BEFORE
THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL.
16-34.1   Reprisal Action Against Person Who Testifies Before Boston City
Council Unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual employed by, under contract to or
any Agent of the city, either directly or indirectly, to take or threaten to
take, direct others to take, recommend or approve any personal action against
any individual or employee as reprisal for making a complaint, testifying
before or disclosing information to a Committee of the Boston City Council,
unless the complaint was made or the information disclosed or testimony given
was given with willful disregard for its truth or falsity.
(CBC 1985 16-34.1; Ord. 1989 c. 8 § 1)
16-34.2   Complaint of Reprisal; Action by Chair of Committee.
   Upon information and belief that retaliatory action was unlawfully taken by
an employee, contractor or any Agent of the city against an individual who
makes a legitimate complaint, testifies before or discloses information
relative to the activities described hereinabove to a Committee of the Boston
City Council, the Chair of said Committee may upon information and belief that
the complaint is bonafide, have issued a summons on said employee, contractor
or Agent of the city and shall convene a Committee hearing to investigate such
complaint further.
(CBC 1985 16-34.2; Ord. 1989 c. 8 § 2)
16-34.3   Report to Boston City Council of Reprisal; Boston City Council May
Impose Disciplinary Action.
   Upon a finding that an individual employed by, under contract to or an Agent
of the city has engaged in reprisal against an individual who makes a
complaint, testifies before, or discloses information to a committee of the
Boston City Council, the Chair of the Boston City Council Committee shall issue
a finding and shall report such finding to the full Boston City Council, a copy
of which shall be forwarded to the Mayor for additional disciplinary action
which may result in suspension or termination of said individual, or
termination of said individual’s contract with the city.
(CBC 1985 16-34.3; Ord. 1989 c 8 § 3)
16-34.4   Definition.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REPRISAL ACTIVITY. Any extraordinary individual or municipal activity
against an individual who testifies before a Committee of the Boston City
Council, occurring within six months of said testimony before said Committee,
shall create a rebuttable presumption that such activity is a reprisal against
the individual so testifying.
(CBC 1985 16-34.4; Ord. 1989 c. 7 § 4)
16-34.5   Severability.
   This Section is severable. The ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction
that any one part may be invalid shall not affect the remainder of this
Section.
(CBC 1985 16-34.5; Ord. 1989 c. 8 § 5)
16-35   WORKPLACE SMOKING POLLUTION CONTROL ORDINANCE.
16-35.1   Legislative Intent.
   The use of tobacco for smoking purposes is found to be increasingly
dangerous and life-threatening, not only to the person smoking, but also to the
nonsmoking person who is required to breathe air contaminated by environmental
tobacco smoke. The most pervasive intrusion of the nonsmokers’ right to a
healthy, unpolluted air space is the uncontrolled smoking in the workplace. The
Boston City Council’s intent, by the passage of this Section, is to protect the
health and welfare of the nonsmoker by regulating smoking and the discomforting
effect it creates in the confined environment of the workplace.
(CBC 1985 16-35.1; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-35.2   Title.
   This Section shall be known as the Boston Workplace Smoking Pollution
Control Ordinance.
(CBC 1985 16-35.2; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-35.3   Purpose.
   (A)   Because the smoking of burning tobacco or any other weed or plant is
extremely dangerous to health and is a cause of material annoyance and
discomfort to those employees who are exposed to it and have, of economic
necessity, to work in the confines of a workplace, the Boston City Council
hereby declares that the purposes of this act are:
      (1)   To protect the public health and welfare by regulating smoking in
the workplace; and
      (2)   To minimize the toxic effects of smoking in the workplace by
requiring an employer to adopt a policy that reasonably accommodates insofar as
possible, the preferences of nonsmokers and smokers.
   (B)   If an employer allows employees to smoke in the workplace, the Section
requires that:
      (1)   The employer make reasonable accommodations for the preferences of
both nonsmoking and smoking employees;
      (2)   The employer must give particular preference to employees who as a
result of either a cardiovascular illness, pulmonary illness or any other
physical condition affecting the eyes, nose and throat, are sensitive to the
discomforts of tobacco smoke;
      (3)   The employer use without incurring additional expense to the extent
possible existing architectural design and ventilation systems to separate
designated smoking areas from designated nonsmoking areas;
      (4)   All nonsmoking areas to be designated and conspicuously marked with
signs; and
      (5)   The employer be prohibited from terminating without due cause or
discriminating against any employee because the employee exercised his or her
right under this act.
(CBC 1985 16-35.3; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-35.4   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The municipal Department, division, unit or body of the
municipality charged with regulating and/or enforcing the health laws or
regulations in the Massachusetts community of Boston.
   BOSTON CITY COUNCIL. The law-making body of the community of Boston in the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wage or profit.
   EMPLOYER. Any person who employs the service of an individual person.
   ENCLOSED. An area, other than a public lobby, which is closed in by a roof
and four walls or sides or partitions, either complete or partial, with
appropriate openings for ingress and egress.
   OFFICE SPACE or OFFICE SPACES or WORK SPACE or WORK SPACES. Any area
occupied by an employee during the course of his or her employment, including,
but not limited to, hallways, waiting areas, restrooms, lounges, eating areas,
as well as enclosed motor vehicles, ships, boats and airplanes.
   PERSON. Any individual person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or legal entity of any kind.
   SMOKING or TO SMOKE or SMOKE. The inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying of
any lighted cigarette; cigar, pipe or other article; or paraphernalia for
tobacco or any other weed or plant.
   WORKPLACE. Any enclosed area of a structure or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by any private or public business entities which will provide
primarily, but not exclusively, clerical, professional or business services of
the business entity, or which will provide primarily, but not exclusively,
clerical, professional or business services to other business entities or to
the public, at that location. The WORKPLACE includes, but is not limited to,
office spaces or work spaces in office buildings, office spaces or work spaces
in all municipal office buildings, office spaces or work spaces in all public
buildings, office spaces or work spaces in all federal office buildings where
other than federal employees are employed and the federal regulations
restricting smoking in federal buildings are not applied, medical office
waiting rooms or areas and other medical treatment facilities, all
manufacturing plant office spaces or work spaces not under the control of the
federal government regulations restricting smoking in federal buildings or the
General Service Administration (“GSA”) regulations restricting smoking in
federal buildings.
(CBC 1985 16-35.4; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-35.5   Regulation of Smoking in the Workplace.
   (A)   Each employer who operates a workplace in Boston must implement,
maintain and conspicuously post, for all employees to see, a written smoking
policy which will contain, at a minimum, the following provisions and
requirements.
      (1)   Any employee may object to his or her employer about the smoke
hazard or discomfort in his or her workplace. Using existing means of
ventilation or separation or partition of the work space, the employer must
attempt expeditiously, within 30 days of the initial date of objection, to
reach a reasonable accommodation, insofar as possible, between the preferences
of all the nonsmoking and smoking employees. However, an employer is not
required by this Section to make any expenditures or structural changes to
accommodate the preferences of nonsmoking or smoking employees.
      (2)   Where the employer prohibits smoking in any portion of the
workplace, the area(s) in which smoking is prohibited must be clearly and
conspicuously marked with signs.
   (B)   The employer’s smoking policy must be announced to all employees and
posted conspicuously in all workplaces under the employer’s jurisdiction in
Boston.
   (C)   Anyone who becomes an employer in Boston after the passage of this
Section must, within three months of becoming an employer, adopt, implement,
maintain and conspicuously post for all employees to see, a written smoking
policy with all the provisions mentioned herein.
(CBC 1985 16-35.5; Ord. 1993 c. 3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-35.7
16-35.6   Where Smoking Not Regulated.
   This Section is not intended to regulate smoking in the following places and
under the following conditions within Boston:
   (A)   A private home which may serve as a workplace;
   (B)   Any office space leased or rented by a sole independent contractor for
his or her own use;
   (C)   A business used exclusively for the sale of tobacco products;
   (D)   (1)   Provided further, that no employer or Agent of any employer
shall require as a condition of employment that any employee or prospective
employee refrain from smoking or using tobacco products outside the course of
his or her employment or otherwise discriminate against any individual with
respect to his or her compensation terms, conditions or privileges of
employment for smoking or using tobacco products outside the course of his or
her employment. Provided, however, that any nonprofit organization or
corporation whose primary purpose is to discourage use of tobacco products by
the general public shall be exempt from the provisions of this statute; and
provided that employers within the commonwealth which are regulated under
M.G.L. Chapter 22, Section 9A; Chapter 26, Section 2; Chapter 31, Section 64;
or Chapter 41, Section 101A shall be exempt from the provisions of this
statute.
      (2)   In any civil action alleging a violation of this provision, the
court may:
         (a)   Award punitive damages to a prevailing employee or prospective
employee in addition to any award of actual damages;
         (b)   Award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to a prevailing
employee or prospective employee; and
         (c)   Afford injunctive relief against any employer who commits or
proposes to commit a violation of this provision.
   (E)   City Hall cafeterias.
(CBC 1985 16-35.6; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-35.7   Penalties and Enforcement.
   (A)   The Boston Board of Health, having received a written and signed
letter of complaint from an employee citing a violation of this Section, must
enforce, within 30 days, the entire Section against violations by either of the
following actions:
      (1)   Serving written notice to comply to an employer, with a copy of the
notice to the complaintant, requiring the employer to correct, within 30 days,
any violation of any Section of this Subsection. The employer must also be sent
a copy of this Section at the time notice is served. Upon receiving a second
signed complaint at the Boston Board of Health for the same or continued
violation by the same employer, and failing all other attempts by the Boston
Board of Health to expeditiously; and
      (2)   Within 30 days, mediate the complaint, the complaint must be
resolved by calling upon the attorney for Boston to maintain promptly an action
for injunction to enforce the provisions of this act, to cause the correction
of such violation of Section, and for assessment and recovery of a civil
penalty for such violation.
   (B)   An employer who violates this act shall be liable for a civil penalty,
not to be less than $50 or exceed $300, which penalty shall be assessed and
recovered in a civil action brought by the attorney for Boston in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In undertaking the enforcement of this Section, the city is assuming
an undertaking only to promote the health and general welfare of the working
public. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees,
an obligation for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person
who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.
   (D)   Any revenues accumulated from violations of this Section should be
used only to increase the public awareness of this Section or for public health
programs related to this issue and not reverted to the city’s General Fund.
   (E)   If any provision of this Section is invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the other provisions of the act shall not be
affected thereby, but shall continue in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-35.7; Ord. 1993 c. 3)
16-36   CIGARETTE SALES BY VENDING MACHINES RESTRICTED.
16-36.1   Regulations.
   All sales of cigarettes by vending machines within the city shall be
prohibited unless:
   (A)   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity, plain
view and control of a responsible employee, so that all purchases are
observable and controllable as if cigarettes were sold over the counter;
   (B)   The vending machine must not be located in a coatroom, restroom,
unmonitored hallway, outer waiting area or similar unmonitored area and must be
inaccessible to the public when the establishment is closed;
   (C)   The vending machine is equipped with a lock-out device approved by the
Board of Health. Said device shall lock-out sales from vending machines unless
an employee releases the locking mechanism. The release mechanism must not
allow continuous operation of the vending machine and must not be accessible to
customers. Vending machines shall be posted with a sign stating that the
machine is equipped with a lock-out device and identifying the person(s) to
contact to purchase cigarettes from the machine;
   (D)   All cigarette vending machines must display a conspicuous sign stating
that it is illegal for minors to purchase cigarettes; and/or
   (E)   The use of the premises is restricted to persons over the age of 18.
(CBC 1985 16-35.1; Ord. 1993 c. 9) Penalty, see Subsection 16-36.3
16-36.2   Enforcement.
   The Board of Health or its Enforcement Officer(s) shall enforce these
regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-36.2; Ord. 1993 c. 9)
16-36.3   Violations and Penalties.
   (A)   Any person or corporate entity selling tobacco to any person under age
18 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 for the first offense, not
less than $200 for the second offense and not less than $300 for any third and
subsequent offense.
   (B)   Any person or corporate entity selling tobacco to any person under age
18 three times within 12 months shall be cause, after public hearing, for the
suspension of the license to sell tobacco. All tobacco must be removed from the
premises when said license is suspended. Licenses suspended cannot be
reinstated for one calendar year following the date of removal.
(CBC 1985 16-36.3; Ord. 1993 c. 9)
16-36.4   Severability.
   If any of these regulations is declared invalid or unenforceable, the other
provisions shall not be affected thereby but shall continue in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-36.4; Ord. 1993 c. 9)
16-37   NON-EMERGENCY REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
16-37.1   Prohibition.
   (A)   No person shall in or on any fire lane, public way, sidewalk or other
public land, nor on any land used for retail purposes not having a main use and
occupancy of repair and/or servicing of motor vehicles (other than upon land
leased by such person), install or remove any motor vehicle part or accessory
or make any repair or servicing of a motor vehicle, nor put, place or suffer to
remain on such land, any motor vehicle part, any fluid other than water used or
intended for use in a motor vehicle, or any container or packaging for or from
such part or fluid; provided that minor repairs of equipment required by law or
essential to the operation of the vehicle not involving the draining of fluid
nor the removal or installation of moving parts (other than a tire on a rim),
shall not be deemed a violation hereof.   
   (B)   No owner, lessee or person in charge of property used for retail
purposes not having a main use and occupancy of repair and/or servicing of
motor vehicles shall permit, allow or suffer any person to violate this Section
thereon. Maintenance or repair of vehicles owned or leased by persons lawfully
residing on the property, or owned or leased by, and used in connection with, a
trade or business lawfully conducted on the property, shall not be deemed a
violation hereof.
(CBC 1985 16-37.1; Ord. 1996 c. 2; Ord. 1996 c. 11) Penalty, see Subsection 16-
37.2
16-37.2   Violation.
   The penalty for violation of Subsection 16-37.1 shall be $250 which may be
enforced criminally, or noncriminally as a part of the Environmental
Ordinances.
(CBC 1985 16-37.2; Ord. 1996 c. 2)
16-38   PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF NEWSRACKS.
16-38.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE HOLDER. The holder of a Certificate of Compliance issued by the
Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. The certificate issued by the Commissioner on a
yearly basis to the certificate holder upon successful completion of the
application process each year.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Public Works of the city, or such person
as said Commissioner may delegate.
   CORRAL. A structure which allows for the appropriate placement of newsracks
within designated high traffic areas.
   NEWSRACK. Any type of unmanned device for the vending or free distribution
of newspapers, periodicals or printed material of whatever nature located in or
on a public way.
   NEWSRACK STICKER. A sequentially numbered sticker issued by the Commissioner
for placement on individual newsracks in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
   OPERATOR. Any natural person or other legal entity including, but not
limited to, corporations, partnerships, joint ventures and the like who either
own, operate or are otherwise in control of a newsrack located in or on a
public way in the city.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any public highway, private way laid out under authority of
statute, way dedicated to public use or way under control of the Park
Commissioner or other body having like power.
(CBC 1985 16-38.1; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.2   Certificate of Compliance.
   (A)   Requirement. No person shall place, affix, erect, construct or
maintain a newsrack in or on any part of a public way without first obtaining a
yearly Certificate of Compliance from the Commissioner in accordance with the
provisions of this Section. Only one annual Certificate of Compliance per
operator shall be required.
   (B)   Application process. Each operator of newsracks who intends to place
newsracks in any part of the public way must complete an application on a
yearly basis via the means required by the Commissioner. Any person with fees
owed to the city shall not be eligible to apply for a Certificate of Compliance
until outstanding debts are paid.
   (C)   Application. The application shall describe in detail the location of
each proposed newsrack, including the side of the street and/or corner at which
each newsrack is planned to be placed and indicating the distance, in feet, of
the newsrack from curbs, crosswalks, fire hydrants, street lights, trash
receptacles, traffic signal equipment, bike racks and mail boxes within a 20-
foot radius of the newsrack. The application must also certify that the
placement of the newsrack is in compliance with the regulations of the
commonwealth’s Architectural Access Board, 521 CMR, and will not reduce the
clear space for the passage of pedestrians to less than 4 feet. The application
shall also include:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the
applicant who is the operator of the newsrack(s);
      (2)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of a natural
person (if different from the applicant) who the city may notify and/or contact
at any time concerning the operator/applicant’s newsrack(s). The Commissioner
may use the email address to provide official notice to the person pursuant to
this Section, including notices of violation and removal of newsracks;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance naming the city as an additional insured
to indemnify the city and hold it harmless from any and all claims or judgments
for personal injury, including death, or property damage and from costs and
expenses to which the city may be subjected or which it may suffer or incur by
reason of the design, placement, installation, operation or maintenance of any
of the applicant/operator’s newsrack(s). The amount of insurance coverage shall
be at least $300,000 for operators with between one and 99 newsracks and at
least $1,000,000 for operators with 100 or more newsracks;
      (4)   A signed statement holding the city harmless for any damage to the
newsracks as the result of routine city maintenance, including, but not limited
to, snow plowing and street cleaning, or as the result of reasonable
enforcement of these provisions;
      (5)   A signed statement acknowledging the certificate holder’s agreement
to pay a per-newsrack removal fee in the case for all boxes left on the street
in the case of an emergency declared by the city; and
      (6)   A schedule for quarterly inspections by the operator of permitted
newsracks condition and placement compliance.
   (D)   Issuance of Certificate of Compliance. Each year, within 30 days of
the submission of a completed application, upon a finding that the applicant is
in compliance with the provisions of the Section, the Commissioner shall issue
a Certificate of Compliance. Included with the Certificate of Compliance shall
be an appropriate number of sequentially numbered newsrack stickers. Each
sticker shall be color-coded to indicate year of applicability and indicate the
permitted location. Only those newsrack(s) that have been issued a newsrack
sticker in conjunction with the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance shall
be deemed approved. The Commissioner shall approve proposed locations subject
to the conditions and restrictions set forth in Subsection 16-38.3(C) on a
first come, first serve basis. No preference shall be given to operators who
may have had newsracks in a particular location prior to the effective date of
this Section. No publication shall be approved for more than one newsrack at
any particular location. Certificates of Compliance are nontransferable, unless
allowed by written permission of the Commissioner.
   (E)   Denial of Certificate of Compliance. If an application for a
Certificate of Compliance is denied in whole or in part, the Commissioner shall
state the specific reasons for denial. The Commissioner shall assist the
applicant in determining reasonable alternative locations to those which were
denied. Any applicant who has been denied a Certificate of Compliance may
appeal such denial to the Public Improvement Commission (“PIC”) by submitting a
written request for such a hearing to the Commissioner. Such hearing shall be
heard at the next regularly scheduled hearing or within 30 days. The PIC shall
issue a decision within ten days and any decision shall be subject to M.G.L.
Chapter 30A.
   (F)   Fees for Certificate of Compliance. The nonrefundable application fee
for each yearly Certificate of Compliance shall be $100 to cover the
administrative costs of processing the application plus an annual nonrefundable
fee of $25 per newsrack to cover the administrative costs of monitoring
compliance with these provisions.
   (G)   Amending Certificate of Compliance. If, within the applicable year
after the Commissioner has issued a Certificate of Compliance, the certificate
holder wishes to install additional newsracks, beyond those which have been
approved under division (D) above, the certificate holder must submit an
application to amend the Certificate of Compliance. Only the $25 per newsrack
nonrefundable fee shall apply to such amendments.
(CBC 1985 16-38.2; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.3   Installation.
   (A)   Stickers. Each newsrack shall prominently display the newsrack sticker
issued by the Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 16-38.2(D).
The sticker must be adhered in a clearly visible location on the upper right-
hand corner of the street-facing side of the newsrack. The Commissioner will
give the certificate holder until the expiration of 30 days of issuance of
stickers to affix stickers to permitted newsracks.
   (B)   Standards. Any newsrack placed in any part of the public way shall be:
      (1)   Made of metal, plastic or an equivalent sturdy material approved by
the Commissioner, with a clear plastic window through which the printed
material is dispensed, and shall not be more than 50 inches in height and not
more than 32 inches in length and width;
      (2)   Sufficiently weighted and secure so as not to be easily moved or
tipped over; and
      (3)   Completely enclosed, with a self-closing door that is either self-
latching or otherwise requires manual or mechanical release at each use.
   (C)   Placement. 
      (1)   Placement of any newsracks must be done in accordance with
Subsections 16-38.2(C) and (D) and division (D) below, the regulations of the
Architectural Access Board, 521 CMR and subject to the following prohibitions.
Newsracks shall be placed parallel to and not less than 18 inches nor more than
24 inches from the edge of the curb. No newsrack shall be placed within 150
feet of another newsrack containing the same newspaper or periodical unless
approved by the Commissioner after a demonstration that the placement of two
such newsracks would not impair traffic, affect accessibility or otherwise
create a hazardous situation. Newsracks placed near a building or structure
must be placed parallel to and not more than 6 inches from the wall and shall
not be placed:
         (a)   At any location whereby the clear space for pedestrian passage
is reduced to less than 4 feet;
         (b)   Within 5 feet of any marked or unmarked crosswalk;
         (c)   Within 5 feet of any fire hydrant, fire lane, fire call box or
other emergency facility;
         (d)   Within 5 feet of any traffic control signal or traffic sign;
         (e)   Within 5 feet of any mailbox, bicycle rack, city trash
receptacle, telephone booth or stand;
         (f)   Within 5 feet of any part of a curb return of a curb ramp or
driveway, or in the case of a curb ramp or driveway without a curb return,
within 5 feet of the point where the curb edgestone or edging begins a change
in grade toward the driveway or ramp on each side thereof, or in the case of a
termination of the curb, edgestone or edging without a change in grade or a
turn, within 5 feet of the point of the same terminates on each side of the
ramp or driveway;
         (g)   Within 5 feet ahead or 15 feet to the rear of any designated bus
stop, taxi stand, valet parking area, loading zone or fire lane; and
         (h)   Which in any way protrudes onto a street or interferes or
hinders city removal of snow, ice and debris from the streets and sidewalks.
      (2)   Should circumstances require relief from a placement provision set
forth above, the Commissioner shall have the discretion to grant relief upon a
demonstration of actual hardship and of non-interference with the safe and
efficient operation of the public way by the certificate holder. The
Commissioner shall have the sole discretion to determine whether a proposed
location interferes with the safe and efficient operation of the public way,
and the presumption shall be that proposed locations that do not conform to the
standards of divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(h) above interfere.
   (D)   Placement at designated high traffic areas. In the interest of
maintaining safe, accessible and unobstructed pedestrian flow, the Commissioner
may designate certain areas of the city as high pedestrian traffic areas.
Freestanding newsracks shall not be allowed in such designated areas. The
Commissioner shall determine the appropriate placement of newsracks, through
the use of corrals or other similar devices as the Commissioner deems
necessary. The Commissioner is authorized to establish high pedestrian traffic
areas subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The Commissioner shall determine the location of the corrals or
other similar devices consistent with the purpose and intent of this Section
based on the following criteria:
         (a)   Whether the area has a large amount of pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Whether limited space is available for freestanding newsracks;
and
         (c)   Whether said designation is consistent with the goal of
eliminating pedestrian congestion and enhancing pedestrian safety in the area.
      (2)   (a)   Within five days of designating a high pedestrian traffic
area, the Commissioner shall send notice to all operators. The notice shall
contain the following information:
            1.   The precise area being designated;
            2.   The date the designated area regulations will go into effect,
which shall be at least 30 days after sending the notice; and
            3.   The procedure for obtaining a slot in the area corral or other
similar device.
         (b)   The Commissioner shall approve placement of newsboxes in
designated devices within high traffic area locations on a first come, first
serve basis. No preference shall be given to operators who may have had
newsracks in a particular location prior to the effective date of this Section.
No publication shall be approved for more than one location at any particular
high traffic area.
   (E)   Attachment to property. No operator shall chain or otherwise attach
any newsrack to any other newsrack, tree, street light post, traffic signal of
sign or other city infrastructure in the public way.
   (F)   Groupings of newsracks. Newsracks may be grouped together side-by-
side; provided that no group of newsracks extends beyond four newsracks placed
side-by-side along a curb and an open space of not less than 5 feet unimpeded
by any commonwealth- or city owned infrastructure components or any piece of
street furniture separates each group of newsracks. Notwithstanding this
permissible grouping, no newsrack may be grouped with any other newsrack unless
such location has been approved pursuant to Subsections 16-38.2(C) and (D).
   (G)   Advertising prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
newsrack for advertising or publicity purposes other than dealing with the
display, sale or purchase of the publications dispensed therein.
(CBC 1985 16-38.3; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.4   Maintenance.
   (A)   Condition. Each newsrack shall be maintained in a state of good repair
and in a neat and clean condition, and free of accumulations of outdated
printed materials, trash, rubbish or debris.
   (B)   Service. Each newsrack shall be regularly serviced so that:
      (1)   It is kept reasonably free of graffiti;
      (2)   It is kept reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling and cracked
paint or rust and corrosion;
      (3)   The clear plastic window through which the printed material is
dispensed is not broken and is kept reasonably free of tears, peeling or
fading;
      (4)   The structural parts of the newsrack are not broken or unduly
misshapen; and
      (5)   The immediate area surrounding and underneath the newsrack is kept
reasonably free of dirt and debris.
(CBC 1985 16-38.4; Ord. 2013 c.4)
16-38.5   Enforcement.
   (A)   Nonconforming newsracks. Any newsrack found not to be in compliance
with this Section shall be subject to the enforcement provisions contained
herein.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and shall have the authority to issue regulations for the purpose of
enforcement.
      (1)   If a newsrack is placed in the public way without a newsrack
sticker as required by Subsection 16-38.3(A), the Commissioner may remove it
from the public way immediately and may dispose of such newsrack immediately.
      (2)   Upon a determination that a newsrack permitted pursuant to
Subsection 16-38.2(D) placed in any part of a public way is damaged in a manner
which poses an immediate threat to public safety, or has profane, racist or
sexually-explicit graffiti present on it, the Commissioner may remove such
newsrack immediately. The Commissioner shall send notice to the individual
provided pursuant to Subsection 16-38.2(C)(1) or (C)(2), informing the
certificate holder that the newsrack has been removed, the location of the
facility where the newsrack has been stored and that it will be disposed of in
ten days, unless the certificate holder retrieves the newsrack.
      (3)   Upon a determination by the Commissioner that a newsrack permitted
pursuant to Subsection 16-38.2(D) is in violation of 16-38.3 or 16-38.4,
excluding those violations stipulated in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, the
certificate holder shall have five days to correct the violation. Upon a
determination of such a violation, the Commissioner shall send notice of the
violation to the individual provided pursuant to Subsection 16-38.2(C)(1) or
(C)(2). Such notice shall include:
         (a)   The newsrack sticker number and location;
         (b)   The date of the incident, inspection or other cause giving rise
to the violation;
         (c)   A brief and concise statement of the facts causing the
violation; and
         (d)   A statement informing the individual that at the expiration of
five days from the date of notice the Commissioner shall be free to remove the
newsrack from the street if the violation has not been corrected and that at
the expiration of 15 days from the date of notice the Commissioner shall be
free to dispose of the newsrack unless the newsrack is retrieved and the
violation is corrected.
      (4)   A certificate holder may comply with its obligation under
Subsection 16-38.5(3) to correct the violation by permanently replacing the
newsrack with a properly-stickered newsrack, or by temporarily positioning
another newsrack in place of the offending newsrack while the violation is
corrected. In the event that the certificate holder elects to use a temporary
replacement, it shall:
         (a)   Give the Commissioner written notice of the location including
the side of the street and/or corner at which the newsrack is temporarily
placed and the date and time by which a properly stickered newsrack will be
returned to the position; and
         (b)   Return a properly-stickered newsrack to the position by the date
specified in the notice of temporary replacement.
      (5)   Any person aggrieved by Subsection 16-38.5(3) may appeal such
action to the Public Improvement Commission by submitting a written request for
such a hearing to the Commissioner before the expiration of ten days from the
date of notice. Such hearing shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled
hearing. The Public Improvement Commission shall issue a decision within ten
days and any decision shall be subject to M.G.L. Chapter 30A.
(CBC 1985 16-38.5; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.6   Abandonment.
   (A)   Abandonment. Newsracks properly installed pursuant to this Section
shall be deemed abandoned if no printed material is found for a period of more
than ten days.
   (B)   Notice and removal. Upon a determination that a newsrack is abandoned,
the Commissioner shall remove the newsrack and send notice to the individual
provided pursuant to Subsection 16-38.2(C)(1) or (C)(2), informing the
certificate holder that the newsrack has been removed, the location of the
facility where the newsrack has been stored and that it will be disposed in ten
days, unless the certificate holder retrieves the newsrack.
   (C)   Voluntary abandonment. In the event that a certificate holder
voluntarily abandons a newsrack location, the certificate holder shall notify
the Commissioner, completely remove the newsrack and restore the public way to
a safe condition.
(CBC 1985 16-38.6; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.7   Emergency Removal.
   (A)   The placement of any newsrack in the public way pursuant to the
issuance of a Certificate of Compliance shall be subject to an agreement by the
certificate holder that the certificate holder agrees to remove the newsrack,
and agrees to pay to the city the reasonable cost of removing the newsrack,
whenever the Commissioner determines that removal by the certificate holder or
removal by the city is required to prevent an imminent threat to public safety.
   (B)   When the Commissioner determines that removal of a newsrack is
required to prevent an imminent threat to public safety, the Commissioner shall
endeavor to provide reasonable notice to the individual provided pursuant to
Subsection 16-38.2(C)(1) or (C)(2) instructing them to remove newsracks in the
time and fashion deemed necessary by the Commissioner. When reasonable notice
is not possible, or newsrack removal has not occurred prior to the date and
time stipulated in emergency removal notices, the city shall have the right to
remove newsracks immediately through any public Officer, employee, contractor
or other authorized representative of the city at the lowest reasonable cost
and shall notify the certificate holder of such removal, the sticker numbers of
the newsracks removed, and the total cost of removal for the certificate
holder’s newsracks as soon as practicable. The certificate holder shall pay the
city the removal costs indicated.
(CBC 1985 16-38.7; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.8   Fees.
   (A)   A newsrack removed pursuant to the regulations set forth in
Subsections 16-38.5 or 16-38.6 may be retrieved by the certificate holder
within 15 days of its removal upon payment of a removal fee of $50 plus a
storage fee often $10 per day, to a maximum combined removal and storage fee of
$200 per newsrack.
   (B)   After 15 days, any newsracks removed by the Commissioner pursuant to
this Section shall be deemed “abandoned property” and shall be disposed of.
   (C)   Failure of a certificate holder to retrieve a newsrack within the
specified 15-day period shall not operate to dismiss any fees owed to the city
for removal and storage of such newsrack. Unpaid fees accrued pursuant to this
Subsection shall be considered a debt payable to the city.
(CBC 1985 16-38.8; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.9   Effect on Other Laws.
   Nothing in this Section shall affect the adoption of regulations affecting
newsracks by other government bodies, such as historic district commissions, to
the extent such bodies are authorized to adopt such regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-38.9; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.10   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if any Section, part
or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair
any remaining Section, part or portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 16-38.10; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.11   Initial Application Acceptance Date.
   The Commissioner shall send written notice to all operators affected by this
Section informing them of the date when the Commissioner will accept the first
applications for Certificates of Compliance. The Commissioner shall send said
notice at least 30 days prior to the initial application acceptance date.
(CBC 1985 16-38.11; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-38.12   Effective Date.
   This Section shall take effect 90 days from the date of approval.
(CBC 1985 16-38.12; Ord. 2013 c. 4)
16-39   SALE OF DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTS.
16-39.1   Prohibition of Sale of Dangerous Instruments.
   (A)   No person shall sell, give or deliver to any person under 18 years of
age (hereinafter referred to as “minor”) any of the following:
      (1)   Knife having a blade with a length of 2 inches or more;
      (2)   Ice pick or similar implement having a metal pointed shaft and
handle; or
      (3)   Straight edged razor or razor blade fitted with a handle.
   (B)   Transient vendors, peddlers or hawkers, as defined in M.G.L. Chapter
101 (licensed or unlicensed) are prohibited from selling the above listed
dangerous instruments in the city.
(CBC 1985 16-39.1; Ord. 1997 c. 9 § 1; Ord. 2001 c. 1) Penalty, see Subsection
16-39.2
16-39.2   Penalty.
   Any person found to be in violation of this Section shall be fined $300 per
offense. Enforcement of this Section shall be by non-criminal disposition as
provided by in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or by the filing of a criminal
complaint at the appropriate venue.
(CBC 1985 16-39.2; Ord. 1997 c. 9 § 2)
16-39.3   Exemption.
   The sale, gift, loan or delivery of any of the instruments detailed in
Subsection 16-39.1 by a parent or an adult who is an immediate family member of
the minor, to include siblings and grandparents, shall not be a violation of
this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-39.3; Ord. 1997 c. 9 § 3)
16-39.4   Licensing Requirements for Stores Selling Certain Knives.
   (A)   Any store, except as provided in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) below,
which sells knives having a fixed or locking blade of 2 inches or more but not
cutlery, shall obtain a license from the Licensing Unit of the Boston Police
Department, hereinafter referred to as the Licensing Unit. For purposes of this
Section, the term CUTLERY shall mean utensils used as tableware or used for
cutting and eating foods. The following stores shall have the following
meanings for the purpose of this Section and are exempt from the licensing
provisions of this Section.
      (1)   DEPARTMENT STORE. A large retail store offering a variety of
merchandise and services organized into separate Departments and commonly part
of a chain.
      (2)   HARDWARE STORE. A store in the business of selling metal goods and
utensils, such as locks and tools.
   (B)   A convenience store, as defined herein, shall not be considered a
department store as defined pursuant to division (A)(1) above. For purposes of
this Section, a CONVENIENCE STORE shall mean a retail business with a primary
emphasis placed on providing the public with a convenient location to quickly
purchase a limited variety of consumable products. A convenience store shall be
subject to the licensing provisions of this Section.
   (C)   The Licensing Unit shall issue a license only if the applicant’s
license is not currently in a term of revocation or the applicant is not
currently in violation of these Sections or any regulations with any violations
left unremedied or any fines left unpaid. An applicant must be free from
violations of the provisions of these Sections and Subsections for one year
before application for a license. In determining suitability for a license, the
Licensing Unit shall consider previous violations of city ordinances and if the
applicant has previous violations of ordinances, the license shall be denied. A
license issued under the provisions of this Section shall be renewed
automatically as provided by the regulations promulgated by the Boston Police
Department.
   (D)   Upon denial of a license the licensing unit shall notify the applicant
in writing. The notice shall state the reasons for denial of the license and
establish a date and time for a hearing. The hearing date shall be no earlier
than seven days after the date of said notice. The applicant shall have the
opportunity to be heard at such hearing and shall be notified of the licensing
unit’s decision and reasons in writing.
   (E)   Stores licensed to sell knives under the provisions of this Section
shall be prohibited from selling machetes and other knives as defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 269, Section 12.
   (F)   The Licensing Unit shall promulgate rules and regulations relating to
the licensing of the stores under the provisions of this Section. The Licensing
Unit shall revoke a license issued pursuant to this Section for a violation of
Subsection 16-39.1.
   (G)   Any fine imposed for violations of this Section shall be subject to
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40U and Section 16-55 relating to the
collection of municipal fines.
   (H)   Any person violating the provisions of Subsection 16-39.4 shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $300.
(CBC 1985 16-39.4; Ord. 2011 c. 15; Ord. 2013 c. 2)
16-40   LIMITING TOBACCO ACCESS BY YOUTH.
16-40.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs services for an employer in return for
wages or profit.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust or
other organized group of individuals, including the city or any Agency thereof,
which regularly uses the services of two or more employees.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any employee, volunteer or any other person who patronizes an
area where tobacco products are sold.
   RETAIL STORE. Any establishment selling goods or articles or personal
services to the public.
   SELF SERVICE DISPLAY. (Also known as FREE-STANDING DISPLAY). A display from
which individual packs or cartons of tobacco products may be selected by a
customer.
   TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE. Any machine or device designated for or used for
the vending of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco or tobacco products upon the
insertion of coins, trade checks, swipe cards, slips or any other form of
payment.
(CBC 1985 16-40.1; Ord. 1997 c. 1 § I)
16-40.2   Tobacco Sales to Minors Prohibited.
   (A)   Sale to minors. In conformance with M.G.L. Chapter 270, Section 6,
whoever sells a cigarette, chewing tobacco, snuff or any tobacco in any of its
forms to any person under the age of 18 or, not being his or her parent or
guardian, gives a cigarette, chewing tobacco, snuff or tobacco in any of its
forms to any person under the age of 18, shall be punished according to the
fine schedule set forth in division (H) below.
   (B)   Posting commonwealth law.
      (1)   In conformance with M.G.L. Chapter 270, Section 7, a copy of M.G.L.
Chapter 270, Section 6, shall be posted conspicuously by the owner or other
person in charge thereof in the shop or other place used to sell cigarettes at
retail.
      (2)   The notice to be posted shall be provided by the commonwealth’s
Department of Public Health and made available from the Boston Public Health
Commission. Such notice shall be at least 48 square inches and shall be posted
at the cash register which receives the greatest volume of single cigarette
package sales in such a manner so that it may be readily seen by a person
standing at or approaching the cash register. Such notice shall directly face
the purchaser and shall not be obstructed from view or placed at a height of
less than 4 feet or greater than 9 feet from the floor. For all other cash
registers that sell cigarettes, a notice shall be attached which is no smaller
than 9 square inches, which is the size of the sign provided by the
commonwealth’s Department of Public Health. Such notice must be posted in a
manner so that it may be readily seen by a person standing at or approaching
the cash register. Such notice shall directly face the purchaser and shall not
be obstructed from view or placed at a height of no less than 4 feet or more
than 9 feet from the floor.
   (C)   Permit for location and sales of tobacco.
      (1)   After the effective date of this Section, the Public Health
Commission of the city will issue a “Permit for Location and Sales” only if:
         (a)   The applicant’s permit is not currently in a term of suspension;
and
         (b)   The applicant is not currently in violation of these Sections or
any regulations with any violations left unremedied or any fines left unpaid
and such permit will specify the name, address and approved location per the
Public Health Commission of the city or their designated Agent(s) for retailers
who sell tobacco products.
      (2)   After the effective date of this Section, all retailers who are
required to hold a commonwealth license to sell cigarettes or other tobacco
products, will be required to hold and maintain a valid “Permit for Location
and Sales” from the city for each location at which tobacco products are sold.
      (3)   (a)   Subsequent to receipt of the permit, the Boston Public Health
Commission shall make available and the successful applicant/retailer shall
obtain and post in a clear and conspicuous manner signage that states “Sale of
cigarettes or any tobacco products to persons under the age 18 is illegal,
M.G.L. Chapter 270, Sections 6 and 7. The Boston Public Health Commission shall
make available and the successful applicant/retailer shall obtain and post in a
clear and conspicuous manner signage that discloses:
            1.   Current information for reporting violations of the provisions
of this Section; and
            2.   Current referral information about smoking cessation. The
Boston Public Health Commission may provide updated signage to retailers during
the term of the permit.
         (b)   Any merchant that does not post the signage required under this
Section shall be deemed to be in non-compliance of these provisions and shall
be subject to penalties promulgated by the Boston Public Health Commission.
      (4)   The term of the permit shall be one year.
      (5)   The fee for a one-year tobacco retailer’s “Permit for Location and
Sales” is $100 for each tobacco retail location.
      (6)   A “Permit for Location and Sales” is nontransferable, except a new
permit will be issued to a tobacco retailer who changes locations.
      (7)   During such time that a “Permit for Location and Sales” of tobacco
products has been suspended for violations of this Section, all tobacco
products must be removed from the premises. Any person or entity selling any
tobacco products without said permit shall be fined according to division (H)
below until said permit is reinstated by the Public Health Commission of the
city or its designated Agent(s).
   (D)   Tobacco vending machines. After the effective date of this Section, it
shall be unlawful to sell or distribute any tobacco product through a cigarette
vending machine or any other device used in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products within the city unless said machine:
      (1)   Is located in a private club or bar licensed by the Licensing Board
of the city to sell or serve alcoholic beverages; and
      (2)   Is equipped with a lock out device, installed in view of the
attendant operating such device and posted with a sign not less than 6 inches
by 16 inches reading “Attention! This machine is equipped with a lockout
device, to purchase a tobacco product, you must first see the person in
charge”.
   (E)   Out-of-package sales prohibited. No person or entity may sell or cause
to be sold, or distribute or cause to be distributed, any cigarette package
that contains fewer than 20 cigarettes.
   (F)   Self-service display restrictions. No retailer shall sell or offer for
sale tobacco products by means of a self-service display (also known as “free-
standing display”) unless such display is in strict compliance with the
regulations promulgated by the Office of the Attorney General, specifically
including, but not limited to, 940 CMR 21.04.
   (G)   Sales by employees.
      (1)   In the event of a prospective purchase of cigarettes or other
tobacco products at retail by a person age 26 years old or younger, the
employee responsible for completion of the sale shall request and examine
photographic identification establishing the purchaser’s age as 18 years or
greater as long as such is not in conflict with federal law.
      (2)   No commercial entity selling tobacco products at retail shall allow
any employee to sell cigarettes or other tobacco products until such employee
reads the Boston Tobacco Control Ordinance and commonwealth laws regarding the
sale of tobacco and signs a statement, a copy of which will be placed on file
in the Office of the employer that he or she understands the Section.
   (H)   Penalties, fines, suspension and/or suspension hearings of permit. It
shall be the responsibility of the permit holder and/or individual in charge of
the area where tobacco products are being sold to ensure compliance with all
Sections of this Section pertaining to their place of business. The permit
holder and/or individual in charge of the area permitted for tobacco sales, or
persons involved in violation of any of the provisions of this Section may
receive.
      (1)   In the case of a first violation, the permit holder and/or
individual in charge of the area permitted for tobacco sales, or persons not in
compliance with the provisions of this Section shall receive a fine of $100.
      (2)   In the case of two violations within 24 months, the permit holder
and/or individual in charge of the area permitted for tobacco sales, or persons
not in compliance with the provisions of this Section, shall receive a fine of
$200 and the permit shall be suspended for seven consecutive business days.
      (3)   In the case of three violations within 24 months, the permit holder
and/or individual in charge of the area permitted for tobacco sales, or persons
not in compliance with the provisions of this Section, shall receive a fine of
$300 and the permit shall be suspended for 30 consecutive business days.
      (4)   In the case of four or more violations within 24 months, the permit
holder and/or individual in charge of the area permitted for tobacco sales, or
person not in compliance with the provisions of the Section shall receive a
fine of $400 and the permit shall be suspended for 60 consecutive business days
and, upon public notice and comment, the permit may be permanently revoked at
the sole discretion of the Public Health Commission.
      (5)   The Public Health Commission of the city shall provide written
notice to the permittee of the intent to suspend a Permit for Location and
Sales of Tobacco. The notice shall contain the reasons for the suspension and
establish a date and time for a hearing. The date of the hearing shall be no
earlier than seven days after the date of said notice. The permittee shall have
an opportunity to be heard at such hearing and shall be notified of the
Commission’s decision and reasons in writing.
      (6)   Any permit fees and fines collected under this Section shall be
used for enforcement of these regulations or for educational programs on the
harmful effects of tobacco products.
   (I)   Non-criminal disposition.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this Section, the violation of
which is subject to a specific penalty, may be penalized by the noncriminal
method of a disposition as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or by
filing a criminal complaint at the appropriate venue.
      (2)   Each day on which any violation exists shall be deemed to be a
separate offense:
         (a)   Penalty of $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Penalty of $200 for second offense;
         (c)   Penalty of $300 for third offense; and
         (d)   Penalty of $300 for the fourth offense in addition to the
provisions of division (H) above.
(CBC 1985 16-40.2; Ord. 1997 c. 1 § II; Ord. 1997 c. 6; Ord. 2004 c. 10; Ord.
2011 c. 11)
16-40.3   Enforcement.
   (A)   Enforcement of this Section shall be implemented by the Public Health
Commission of the city or its designated Agent(s).
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint of noncompliance under
the Section may do so by contacting the Public Health Commission of the city or
its designated Agent(s).
(CBC 1985 16-40.3; Ord. 1997 c. 1 § III)
16-40.4   Public Education.
   The Public Health Commission of the city shall engage in a continuing
program to explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of the Section to
citizens affected by it, and to guide owners, operators and managers in their
compliance with it. Such program may include publication of a brochure for
affected business and individuals explaining the provisions of this Section.
The Public Health Commission of the city shall respond to any requests from
tobacco retailers for assistance in training sales personnel.
(CBC 1985 16-40.4; Ord. 1997 c. 1 § V)
16-40.5   Boston Public Health Commission Authority.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 31 and M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Section 2-8A, the Boston Public Health Commission of the city is authorized to
fix, revise, determine and collect any fees set forth in this Section.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter111, Section 31 and M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Sections 2-6B, 2-7(a)(1) and 2-7(a)(15), the Boston Public Health Commission of
the city is further authorized to adopt, amend and repeal reasonable health
regulations not inconsistent with any public health regulation of the
commonwealth’s Department of Public Health or with any other provision of law
and to prescribe a penalty for any violation of said regulations according to
the nature of the offense.
   (C)   To the extent this Section conflicts with or is inconsistent with any
Boston Public Health Commission regulation, penalty or fee, the Boston Public
Health Commission regulation, penalty or fee shall prevail.
(CBC 1985 16-40.5; Ord. 2011 c. 11)
16-41   REGULATING MANNER AND PLACE OF SOLICITATION.
16-41.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRESSIVE MANNER.
      (1)   Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that is:
         (a)   Intended to, or is likely to, cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the
person’s possession; or
         (b)   Intended to or is likely to intimidate the person being
solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
      (2)   Conduct during soliciting that includes:
         (a)   Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or
touching another person in the course of the solicitation, or approaching
within an arm’s length of the person, except with the person’s consent;
         (b)   Using violent or threatening gestures or profane, offensive or
abusive language; or
         (c)   Intentionally or recklessly blocking or interfering with the
safe or free passage of a pedestrian or vehicle.
      (3)   Closely following or continuing to solicit a person who has been
solicited and who has informed the solicitor by words or conduct that such
person declines the solicitor’s request.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A device, linked to a financial institution’s
account records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not
limited to: account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries
and mortgage and loan payments.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY. The area comprised of one or more
automated teller machines, and any adjacent space which is made available to
banking customers after regular banking hours.
   BANK. Any association or corporation chartered by the commonwealth under
M.G.L. Chapter 168, 170, 171 or 172, or an individual, association, partnership
or corporation incorporated or doing a banking business in the commonwealth
subject to the supervision of the Commissioner of Banks.
   BUS SHELTER. A covered structure at a bus stop providing protection against
the weather for people waiting for a bus.
   BUS STOP. A place on a bus route, usually marked by a sign, at which buses
stop for passengers to alight and board.
   CHECK CASHING BUSINESS. A location that houses a person or entity engaged in
cashing checks, drafts or money orders for a consideration licensed under
M.G.L. Chapter 169A.
   PARKING GARAGE. A building designed specifically to be for automobile
parking.
   PARKING LOT. A cleared area dedicated and intended for parking vehicles.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area or building owned, leased, operated or controlled by
or on behalf of any government, municipality, public authority or public
corporation in the city which is generally accessible by the public, including,
but not limited to, any city street, sidewalk, bridge, tunnel, park,
playground, recreation area, cemetery, school or school grounds, building,
facility, driveway, parking lot or parking garage and the doorways and
entrances to buildings and dwellings.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. The portion of the public right-of-way kept, used, maintained
and held out to the public as a place where food or drink are served for
consumption on the premises, or which is used directly in conjunction with a
pedestrian pick-up window.
   SOLICIT. To request an immediate donation of money or other thing of value
from another person, regardless of the solicitor’s purpose or intended use of
the item requested. The SOLICITATION may be, without limitation, by the spoken,
written or printed word, bodily gestures, signs, performing or offering to
perform any service or by other means of communication.
(CBC 1985 16-41.1; Ord. 2013 c.1)
16-41.2   Prohibited Acts.
   (A)   No person shall solicit in an aggressive manner in a public place.
   (B)   No person shall solicit when the person being solicited is:
      (1)   In a bus shelter or at a bus stop;
      (2)   In a parking garage or parking lot;
      (3)   In a sidewalk café;
      (4)   In a line and waiting to be admitted into a commercial
establishment; or
      (5)   In a crosswalk.
   (C)   No person shall solicit within 10 feet of:
      (1)   An automated teller machine or an entrance or exit of an automated
teller machine facility during the time it is available for customers’ use; or
      (2)   An entrance or exit to a bank or check cashing business during
business hours.
   (D)   No person shall solicit while walking on, standing on or going into
any street or highway used for motor vehicle travel, or any area appurtenant
thereto (including medians, shoulder areas, bicycle lanes, turning lanes, ramps
and exit ramps).
(CBC 1985 16-41.2; Ord. 2013 c. 1)
16-41.3   Enforcement.
   The provisions of this Section may be enforced by the Boston Police
Department.
(CBC 1985 16-41.3; Ord. 2013 c. 1)
16-41.4   Penalties.
   (A)   Any person who violates Subsection 16-41.2 shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $100 or by a judicial order of community service in lieu of a
fine or some combination thereof.
   (B)   Any person who continues to violate any Subsection of 16-41.2 after
being ordered to stop by a member of the Boston Police Department may be
arrested and kept in custody in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 59.
(CBC 1985 16-41.4; Ord. 2013 c. 1)
16-41.5   Severability.
   If any provision in this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-41.5; Ord. 2013 c. 1)
16-42   LASER POINTERS.
16-42.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LASER POINTER. Any device that emits light amplified by the stimulated
emission of radiation that is visible to the human eye.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
other legal entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. A place to which the public has a right of access, and
includes, but is not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, plaza,
transportation facility, place of amusement, park or playground.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. The buildings, grounds or facilities, or any portion
thereof, owned, occupied or under the custody or control of public or private
institutions for the primary purpose of providing educational and recreational
instruction to students.
   STUDENT. Any person enrolled to attend a public, private or parochial
elementary or secondary school in the city.
(CBC 1985 16-42.1; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 1)
16-42.2   Sales to Minors Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, sell or offer for sale, or
cause any person to give, sell or offer to sell a laser pointer to any
individual 18 years of age and younger.
(CBC 1985 16-42.2; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-42.6
16-42.3   Sales Restricted.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale laser pointers by means of a
self-service display unless such display is located within 10 feet of the
checkout counter and in plain view of the cashier or person on duty and in
charge of the establishment.
   (B)   No person shall display laser pointers in any manner or post a sign
advertising the availability of laser pointers unless a notice has been posted
to it indicating that the sale or giving of laser pointers to persons 18 years
of age and younger is a violation of this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-42.3; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-42.6
16-42.4   Possession Restricted.
   (A)   No student shall possess a laser pointer on school premises.
   (B)   No person 18 years of age and younger shall possess a laser pointer
while in a public space; provided however, that nothing in this Section shall
preclude:
      (1)   The possession on school premises of a laser pointer by a student
18 years of age or younger for a valid instructional, school-related or
employment purpose, where such laser pointer is used under the supervision of a
school staff person, other authorized instructor or parent; or
      (2)   The possession in a public place of a laser pointer by a person 18
years of age and younger, during such person’s hours of employment, for a valid
employment purpose where such laser pointer is used under the supervision of
the employer or its agent.
(CBC 1985 16-42.4; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 4) Penalty, see Subsection 16-42.6
16-42.5   Harassment by Laser Beams in Public Prohibited.
   No person, regardless of age, shall focus, point or shine a laser beam
directly or indirectly on another person in a public place or in a moving
vehicle in such a manner as is intended to harass or annoy said person or any
person operating a moving vehicle.
(CBC 1985 16-42.5; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 5) Penalty, see Subsection 16-42.6
16-42.6   Penalty.
   Any person found to be in violation of this Section shall be fined $300 per
offense. Enforcement of this Section shall be by noncriminal disposition as
provided by in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D or by filing a criminal complaint
at the appropriate venue.
(CBC 1985 16-42.6; Ord. 1999 c. 2 § 6)
16-43   TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   In the city, all delivery personnel, including letter carriers, whether
employed by a private firm, a government Agency or government-supported
corporation, shall use sidewalks and accepted and approved walkways when
accessing private property, and, excepting for necessity or emergency, shall
refrain from traversing lawns or other private property not normally used as a
walkway by the general public in order to effect delivery.
(CBC 1985 16-43; Ord. 2000 c. 3)
16-44   SALE OF MERCURY THERMOMETERS BANNED.
16-44.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Any hospital, nursing home, extended care facility,
long-term facility, clinic or medical laboratory, commonwealth or private
health or mental institution, clinic, physician’s office or health maintenance
organization.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
governmental entity, organization, combination or joint venture that produces a
mercury fever thermometer. If the mercury thermometer is produced in a foreign
county, the MANUFACTURER is the importer of domestic distributor.
   MERCURY THERMOMETER. A mercury-containing product that is used to measure
body temperature. A MERCURY-CONTAINING PRODUCT is a product, device, instrument
or equipment into which elemental mercury or mercury compounds are
intentionally added during its formulation or manufacture and in which the
continued presence of mercury is desired to provide a specific characteristic
or permit a specific function.
(CBC 1985 16-44.1; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.1)
16-44.2   Retail Sale Prohibited.
   A person shall not sell or supply (including online retail) mercury fever
thermometers to consumers and patients, except by prescription. The
manufacturers of mercury fever thermometers shall supply clear instructions on
the careful handling of the thermometer to avoid breakage and proper cleanup
should a breakage occur with all mercury fever thermometers sold through
prescriptions.
(CBC 1985 16-44.2; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-44.6
16-44.3   Manufacturing Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture a mercury thermometer in
the city.
(CBC 1985 16-44.3; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-44.6
16-44.4   Importation Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any facility to import, purchase or distribute a
mercury thermometer in the city, except in the case of a medical necessity as
determined by a licensed physician.
(CBC 1985 16-44.4; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.4) Penalty, see Subsection 16-44.6
16-44.5   Restriction on the Sale of Mercury Thermometers.
   Six months after the adoption of this Section, a person may not sell or
supply mercury fever thermometers to consumers and patients.
(CBC 1985 16-44.5; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.5) Penalty, see Subsection 16-44.6
16-44.6   Penalty.
   Any person who violates this Section shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $700 per unit sold. The Public Health Commission shall have jurisdiction
over outreach and enforcement of this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-44.6; Ord. 2000 c. 5 § 2.6)
16-45   PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF KNIVES OR SIMILAR WEAPONS.
16-45.1   Carrying of Weapons Prohibited.
   (A)   No person, except as provided by law, shall carry on his or her
person, or carry under his or her control in a vehicle, any knife having any
type of blade in excess of 2½ inches, ice picks, dirks or similar weapons that
are likely to penetrate through Police Officer’s ballistic vests, or other
object or tool so redesigned, fashioned, prepared or treated that the same may
be used to inflict bodily harm or injury to another, except:
      (1)   When actually engaged in hunting or fishing or any employment,
trade or lawful recreational or culinary activity which customarily involves
the carrying or use of any type of knife;
      (2)   In going directly to and/or returning directly from such
activities; or
      (3)   If the knife is being transported directly to or from a place of
purchase, sharpening or repair, and if packaged in such a manner as not to
allow easy access to the knife while it is being transported.
   (B)   No person, except as provided by law, shall carry on his or her
person, or carry under his or her control in a vehicle, a machete. For purposes
of this Section, MACHETE means a heavy knife at least 18 inches in length and
having a blade at least 1½ inches wide at its broadest measurement. This
Subsection shall not apply to carrying a machete on one’s person or in a
vehicle if the machete is carried for the purpose of cutting vegetation or if
the machete is being transported for the purpose of cutting vegetation.
(CBC 1985 16-45.1; Ord. 2001 c. 10; Ord. 2008 c. 13 § 1) Penalty, see
Subsection 16-45.4
16-45.2   Distribution Exception.
   This Section shall not apply to persons who, through entities or
establishments engaged in a recognized retail or wholesale business, are
involved in the sale, purchase or repair of machetes or knives for trade,
sport, hobby or recreation, including without limitation, persons engaged in
the transportation to or from such entities or establishments.
(CBC 1985 16-45.2; Ord. 2001 c. 10; Ord. 2008 c. 13 § 2)
16-45.3   Applicability.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to enhance or diminish any duties
of persons described in Subsection 16-45.2, and this Section shall not be
introduced or cited in any proceeding as evidence of negligence, recklessness
or similar state of mind of such persons.
(CBC 1985 16-45.3; Ord. 2001 c. 10)
16-45.4   Penalty.
   Violators of any provision of this Section shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $300 for each offense.
(CBC 1985 16-45.4; Ord. 2001 c. 10)
16-45.5   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section shall be severable and if any Section, part
or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair
any remaining Section, part or portion thereof.
(CBC 1985 16-45.5; Ord. 2001 c. 10)
16-46   NONCRIMINAL DISPOSITION OF ZONING VIOLATIONS IN THE CITY.
16-46.1   General Penalty: Noncriminal Disposition of Zoning Violations.
   Any person who violates any Section of the Boston Zoning Code, as it may be
amended, through the use or occupancy of land, buildings or structures in the
city in a manner designated by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department, or the designee or successor thereto (hereinafter “Commissioner”
for the purposes of this Section) in Subsection 16-46.3 shall be liable for a
specific penalty set forth in Subsection 16-46.4 and may also be penalized by a
non-criminal disposition as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D.
(CBC 1985 16-46.1; Ord. 2003 c. 17 § 1)
16-46.2   Enforcing Person and Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner shall be the enforcing person for violations under this
Section and shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary to implement and enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-46.2; Ord. 2003 c. 17 § 1)
16-46.3   Violations.
   Violations under this Section shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Auto repair. Any person who violates any Section of the Boston Zoning
Code, as it may be amended, through the use and occupancy of land, buildings or
structures in a residential zoning district as defined by the Boston Zoning
Code for the purposes described in use items 35A (sale within a building of
automotive parts), 36 (sale of automobiles and trucks), 51 (outdoor sale or
display of automobiles for sale), 55 (outdoor storage of contractor equipment
and materials), 57 (outdoor storage of junk scrap, wrecking or dismantling of
motor vehicles), 57A (outdoor storage of damaged motor vehicles), 60 (repair
garage), 60A (sale or installation indoors of automotive parts) of Boston
Zoning Code Article 8, Section 2 shall be in violation of this Section 16-46.
Each day a violation occurs or remains unremedied shall be considered a
separate violation.
   (B)   Yard parking. Any person who violates any Section of the Boston Zoning
Code, as it may be amended, through the use and occupancy of land, buildings or
structures in a residential zoning district as defined in the Boston Zoning
Code for the purpose of parking motor vehicles on any front yard, side yard or
rear yard as defined in Boston Zoning Code Article 2A shall be in violation of
this Section. Each day a violation occurs or remains unremedied shall be
considered a separate violation.
   (C)   Work without a building permit. Any person who violates any Section of
the Boston Zoning Code, including, but not limited to, Article 4, Section 3, as
it may be amended, by performing work on any land, building or structure
without the approval of the Commissioner, shall be in violation of this
Section. Each day a violation occurs or remains unremedied shall be considered
a separate violation.
   (D)   Signs. Any person who violates any Section of the Boston Zoning Code,
including, but not limited to, Article 11, as it may be amended, by failing to
comply with any sign requirement shall be in violation of this Section. Each
day a violation occurs or remains unremedied shall be considered a separate
violation.
(CBC 1985 16-46.3; Ord. 2003 c. 17 § 1; Ord. 2009 c. 6)
16-46.4   Enforcement, Penalties and Fines.
   (A)   A person in violation of this Section, unless otherwise provided,
shall incur a civil fine of $150 for the first offense and a civil fine of $300
for the second offense and all subsequent offenses. A person in violation of
Subsection 16-46.3 shall incur a civil fine of $50 for the first offense and a
civil fine of $100 for the second and all subsequent offenses. Each day a
violation occurs or remains unremedied shall be considered a separate
violation. The Commissioner may, at the Commissioner’s discretion, issue a
written warning for a first offense in lieu of a fine.
   (B)   A person in violation of this Section may also be subject to
enforcement under any other laws in the commonwealth or the city applicable to
the same conduct constituting a violation under this Section including a higher
penalty whenever a higher penalty is permitted under the M.G.L.; provided,
however, that such higher penalty shall be the maximum penalty for each
offense. The city shall not be precluded by any enforcement under this Section
from concurrently seeking an injunction to restrain a violation.
   (C)   A person in violation of this Section may appeal enforcement action
hereunder pursuant to Boston Zoning Code Article 5, Section 2, and the filing
of a timely appeal under Boston Zoning Code Article 5, Section 2 shall not stay
further enforcement under any other rule, regulation, ordinance or by-law.
   (D)   All fines and penalties paid hereunder shall inure to the city.
(CBC 1985 16-46.4; Ord. 2003 c. 17 § 1; Ord. 2009 c. 6)
16-46.5   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-46.5; Ord. 2003 c. 17 § 1)
16-47   PROHIBITING THE SALE AND/OR INSTALLATION OF A MUFFLER CUT-OUT OR BY-
PASS AND PROHIBITING CERTAIN MODIFICATIONS TO EXHAUST SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer for sale or install on or in any
motor vehicle or trailer:
         (a)   A muffler from which the baffle plates, screens or other
original internal parts have been removed and not replaced;
         (b)   An exhaust system which has been modified in a manner which will
result in an amplification or an increase in the noise emitted by the exhaust
system; or
         (c)   A muffler cut-out or by-pass.
      (2)   A first violation of this Section shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $100 and not more than $250. A second violation of this Section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $500. A
third and all subsequent violations shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $500 and not more than $1,000.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park, use or operate a motorcycle, within the
city, manufactured subsequent to December 31, 1982 that does not bear the
required applicable Federal EPA exhaust system label pursuant to the 40 C.F.R.
Volume 24, Part 205, Subparts D and Subpart E.
      (2)   All violations of division (B)(1) above shall be punishable by a
fine of $300.
      (3)   Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, or his or her
designee, shall have the authority to enforce this division (B).
(CBC 1985 16-47; Ord. 2003 c. 18 § 1; Ord. 2009 c. 4)
16-48   BOAT SLIPS AND MOORINGS.
16-48.1   Purpose.
   (A)   In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in the use of
recreational boats in Boston Harbor. Simultaneously, the city has undertaken
increased security measures, and the effectiveness of these security measures
requires attentiveness from the Harbormaster and cooperation from the boating
community. The boating community plays a unique and valuable role in self-
policing itself and insisting on high community standards throughout the
waterways, but the security of the Boston Harbor depends on the vigilance of
the uniformed and civilian personnel of the Harbormaster.
   (B)   The city expends considerable funds annually to provide an Office of
the Harbormaster and Harbor Patrol craft to enhance and protect public safety,
public health and the public welfare. Appropriately, other cities and towns
along the commonwealth’s coastline have collected user fees that at least
partially defray the expense in providing a Harbormaster and a mooring program,
and security, however critical it may be, is only a portion of the
Harbormaster’s duties.
   (C)   The city, in deference to the history of the recreational boating
community and in order to encourage the recreational use of the Boston Harbor,
has delayed its demand and collection of such user fees. In fact, Boston Harbor
is among the last of the commonwealth’s harbors to implement some form of
municipal-level harbor-centered user fee. Increased boater population,
augmented security requirements and other amplified programmatic demands have
combined to make it impossible for the Harbormaster to maintain a responsible
and adequate level of service and attention to the boating community without
administering a small annual fee to the recipients of the service and
attention: boaters that moor or dock their boats in Boston Harbor.
   (D)   Finally, the city will establish a Waterways Board comprised of
persons and organizations with the knowledge and expertise to provide a public
forum to ensure the most effective, safe, fair and equitable use of the
waterways.
(CBC 1985 16-48.1; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The terms
BOAT and VESSEL are not defined terms and are used interchangeably.
   BOSTON CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Boston.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Boston.
   CITY WATERWAYS. All waterways within the boundaries of the city, including,
but not limited to, harbors, bays and coves, whether publicly or privately
owned or controlled, over which the Harbormaster has public safety and/or
public health jurisdiction.
   COMMERCIAL GROUP MOORING COMPANY. An entity in the business of providing
berthing or mooring of boats on a seasonal or transient basis to the general
public and that qualifies as a public recreational boating facility.
   COMMODORE. The Commodore of a private yacht club in the city that qualifies
as a public recreational boating facility.
   HARBORMASTER. The Harbormaster of the city.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
   PERMIT HOLDER. A person that has applied for and received a permit from the
Harbormaster under Subsection 16-48.4 or that has paid the fees and received
the decal from the Harbormaster under Subsection 16-48.7.
   PERMITTED BOAT. The boat owned by a Permit Holder for which the permit
holder received a permit from the Harbormaster under Subsection 16-48.4 or for
which the permit holder received a decal from the Harbormaster under Subsection
16-48.7.
   PERMITTED MOORING. The mooring for which a permit holder received a permit
from the Harbormaster.
   PUBLIC RECREATIONAL BOATING FACILITY. A facility for berthing of
recreational vessels at which all berths and accessory uses thereto are
available for patronage by the general public on a seasonal or transient basis;
such facility may be either publicly or privately owned, and may include town
piers, commercial rental marinas or community sailing centers or yacht clubs
offering open membership to the public; nothing in this definition shall be
construed as prohibiting the adoption of minimum eligibility criteria of broad,
objective applicability, such as basic knowledge of boating safety or a
willingness to make regular work commitments; nor as prohibiting the
reservation of a berth for the operator of said facility. This definition is
promulgated by the commonwealth’s Department of Environmental Protection in its
waterways regulations found at 310 CMR 9.00 et seq.
   TRANSIENT BOAT. A boat that is in city waterways, including, but not limited
to, being moored at a permitted mooring, for no more than 14 successive
calendar days nor more than 28 total calendar days in a calendar year.
   TRANSIENT MOORING. A permitted mooring that is not dedicated to a permitted
boat.
   WATERWAYS BOARD. The Boston Waterways Board established pursuant to
Subsection 16-48.15.
(CBC 1985 16-48.2; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.3   Harbormaster Authorization.
   No boat in any city waterway, other than a transient boat, may be moored,
docked or anchored at any private dock, marina, boat club, boatyard, yacht
club, commercial group mooring company and/or any other public recreational
boating facility, without obtaining authorization from the Harbormaster.
(CBC 1985 16-48.3; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.4   Permits.
   (A)   No mooring may be placed in city waterways without a permit, and a
permit may be issued only by the Harbormaster upon a written application in
accordance with the dates in Subsection 16-48.9. The Harbormaster shall publish
and supply a standard form of permit application which shall include, but not
be limited to, applicant’s complete name, applicant’s complete address of
primary residence, applicant’s residential telephone number, applicant’s office
telephone number or alternative emergency telephone number, the name of the
boat, a description of the boat (name, make, model, year, color, type, draft,
length and use), the city/town of the prior year’s mooring and the registration
or documentation of the boat.
   (B)   The Harbormaster may not issue a mooring permit under these Sections
unless the permit applicant has successfully and timely completed and executed
an application for mooring permit, has successfully and timely completed all
required forms and/or other applications, and has successfully and timely
submitted proof of payment of all applicable taxes (including, if applicable,
penalties and interest) and fees. In accordance with 310 CMR 9.07, the
Harbormaster shall act on the application within 15 calendar days. The
Harbormaster must delineate in writing the reason(s) for a rejection, and if
such reasons may be remedied/corrected then such rejected applicant shall be
granted 15 calendar days to remedy/correct the reason(s) for rejection, and
upon the applicant’s satisfactory and timely proffer of written evidence of
complete remedy/correction then the Harbormaster shall approve the application
and issue the permit within seven calendar days.
   (C)   If the applicant for renewal of a mooring permit successfully and
timely completes and executes an application for mooring permit, successfully
and timely completes all required forms and/or other applications, and timely
submits proof of payment of all applicable taxes (including, if applicable,
penalties and interest) and fees then, absent documented cause for rejection,
the Harbormaster shall approve the application and issue the permit within
seven calendar days.
   (D)   Any mooring existing without a permit shall be deemed to be a public
nuisance and shall be deemed to be in violation of these Sections and may be
removed at the expense of the mooring owner and delivered to the possession of
the Harbormaster to a storage area designated by the Harbormaster. The removed
mooring:
      (1)   May be claimed by the mooring owner subject to payment of removal
fees, storage fees and any fines that may have accrued; or
      (2)    May be disposed of pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 91.
(CBC 1985 16-48.4; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.5   Assignment.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with 310 CMR 9.07(2)(a), the Harbormaster shall
provide a written procedure for the fair and equitable assignment from a
waiting list for use of vacant or new moorings held by bottom-anchor and ramps
associated thereto. Methods for mooring assignment which are appropriate
include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:
         (a)   Date of application;
         (b)   Physical characteristics of boats (i.e., size and type); and/or
         (c)   Purpose of boat (i.e., commercial/recreational or public/
private).
      (2)   The Harbormaster may allow the previous permit holder of a specific
mooring to renew, on an annual basis, that specific mooring another mooring
within the control of the Harbormaster.
   (B)   As noted in Subsection 16-48.9, pursuant to 310 CMR 9.07(2)(d),
nothing in these Sections shall be construed to prevent moorings for which
permits are issued to a public recreational boating facility from being
assigned to individual patrons or members of such facility.
   (C)   The Waterways Board shall annually review the written procedures,
policies and practices of the Harbormaster and the public recreational boating
facilities in accordance with Subsection 16-48.15.
(CBC 1985 16-48.5; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.6   Fees.
   All boats that are moored in city waterways, tied at slips or seasonally
rack-stored on waterfront property with launching capacity, shall be assessed
an annual fee as recommended by the Waterways Board and approved by the Boston
City Council and the Mayor. Until such time as the Waterways Board, Boston City
Council and Mayor revise the fee, the fee shall be assessed at the rate of $1
per foot of boat length for residents of the city and $5 per foot of boat
length for non-residents. Transient boats, boats exempt from the excise tax
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 60B, Section 3 and all boat tenders or dinghies less
than 12 feet long that belong to or are attached to a permitted boat shall be
exempt from this fee.
(CBC 1985 16-48.6; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.7   Decals.
   In order to evidence payment of the fees assessed in these Sections, the
Harbormaster shall issue decals that shall not exceed 3 inches in length by 3
inches in height which shall be affixed to the port side of a permitted boat
near the transom. Nothing in this Section requires a permit decal to be affixed
to any boat exempt from Subsection 16-48.6. Nothing in this Section prohibits
the decal for the current year from being placed over the decal for a previous
year. The permit holder shall ensure that the decal remains visible to casual
inspection, clear of debris and obstruction.
(CBC 1985 16-48.7; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.8   Application Dates.
   (A)   Applications for mooring permits, including applications for renewal
of mooring permits, shall be accepted after January 1 but must be postmarked or
submitted to the Harbormaster by April 1 of each calendar year. Applications
for renewal of mooring permits that are postmarked or received by the
Harbormaster after April 1 but before June 1 shall be assessed a late fee of
$25.
   (B)   Any mooring existing without a permit shall be deemed to be a public
nuisance and shall be deemed to be in violation of these Sections and may be
removed at the expense of the mooring owner and delivered to the possession of
the Harbormaster to a storage area designated by the Harbormaster. The removed
mooring:
      (1)   May be claimed by the mooring owner subject to payment of removal
fees, storage fees and any fines that may have accrued; or
      (2)   May be disposed of pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 91.
(CBC 1985 16-48.8; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.9   Use.
   (A)   (1)   A permitted mooring shall be non-transferable except to a person
within the immediate family of the permit holder upon the written approval of
the Harbormaster. The Harbormaster may authorize in writing the temporary use
of a permitted mooring by a boat other than the permitted boat upon written
application of the permit holder. Pursuant to 310 CMR 9.07(2)(d):
         (a)   Commodores may assign vessels of its individual patrons or
members to its permitted moorings and shall notify the Harbormaster of any such
assignment but such notification is not required if such assignment is made to
a transient boat; and
         (b)   Commercial group mooring companies may assign vessels of its
individual patrons or members to its permitted moorings and shall notify the
Harbormaster of any such assignment but such notification is not required if
such assignment is made to a transient boat.
      (2)   Commodores may assign guest vessels to guest moorings or to
permitted moorings of its individual patrons or members upon written permission
from the permit holder and shall notify the Harbormaster of any such assignment
but such notification is not required if such assignment is made to a transient
boat.
   (B)   In accordance with Cooper v. Eisenman, C.A. No. 86-2571-C (D. Mass.
March 9, 1988), affirmed 867 F.2d 606 (1st Cir. (Mass.) Dec. 9, 1988), cert.
denied 491 U.S. 907 (1989), nothing in this Section shall be construed to
prohibit the transfer of a group of permitted moorings pursuant to the sale of
a commercial enterprise including, but not limited to, a boatyard, a yacht
club, a marina, a boat club, a commercial group mooring company and/or any
other public recreational boating facility.
(CBC 1985 16-28.9; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.10   Expiration.
   All mooring permits expire on February 15 of the calendar year following the
issuance but may be renewed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 16-48.4. A
permit holder that sells or transfers ownership of a permitted boat shall
notify the Harbormaster immediately upon such sale or transfer, and if the new
owner intends to moor the permitted boat at the permitted mooring, then the new
owner shall contact the Harbormaster and satisfy the requirements of Subsection
16-48.4.
(CBC 1985 16-48.10; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.11   Changes.
   (A)   No person may move, remove or relocate a mooring without the prior
written authorization of the Harbormaster except for normal servicing of
moorings and minor realignment of moorings to prevent adverse contact with
nearby boats on moorings wherein the mooring is moved:
      (1)   To its original location; or
      (2)   No more than 10 feet.
   (B)   A permit holder shall notify the Harbormaster immediately upon any
change in the information provided on the application for a mooring permit.
(CBC 1985 16-48.11; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.12   Marking on Mooring.
   All permitted moorings shall be visibly marked with the corresponding
assigned permit number in font no smaller than 1 inch. The permit holder shall
ensure that the marking remains legible to casual inspection, reasonably clear
of debris and reasonably unobstructed.
(CBC 1985 16-48.12; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.13   Enforcement and Penalties.
   (A)   The Harbormaster shall enforce the provisions of these Sections.
Unless otherwise delineated in these Sections, any violation of these Sections
shall subject the person in violation to a fine of $25 for each day the
violation persists. As specifically delineated in these Sections, certain
violations may subject the applicable mooring to immediate removal.
   (B)   The Harbormaster may require owners of moorings to provide evidence/
documentation of satisfactory periodic inspection of their moorings for fitness
and structural integrity.
(CBC 1985 16-48.13; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.14   Annual Report.
   (A)   In an effort to assist the evaluation of the effectiveness of the
mooring programs of the city, the Harbormaster, with the cooperation of the
Assessor of the city and the Collector-Treasurer of the city, shall annually
prepare a report relevant to the city’s waterways usage and mooring programs
for the calendar year commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31. The
annual report shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The number of boats moored/docked in city waterways;
      (2)   The number of permitted moorings in city waterways;
      (3)   The number of applications received for permits
      (4)   The number of permit holders;
      (5)   The number of permit holders that are residents of the city;
      (6)   The number of permit holders that are non-residents of the city;
      (7)   The number of violations issued by the Harbormaster;
      (8)   The top three most numerous types of violations issued by the
Harbormaster;
      (9)   A narrative summary of the most significant public safety
incidents;
      (10)   The aggregate amount of fees collected under these Sections;
      (11)   The aggregate amount of excise taxes collected; and
      (12)   The aggregate amount of fines collected under these Sections.
   (B)   Originals of this annual report shall be forwarded to the Waterways
Board and filed with the City Clerk no later than January 31 of each calendar
year, and the City Clerk shall forthwith forward this annual report to the
Mayor and the Boston City Council. The Waterways Board shall file written
comments and/or recommendations to the annual report with the City Clerk no
later than March 1 of each calendar year, and the City Clerk shall forthwith
forward this annual report to the Mayor and the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1985 16-48.14; Ord. 2004 c.1 § 1)
16-48.15   Boston Waterways Board.
   (A)   Pursuant to these Sections, the Boston Waterways Board shall be
established. The Waterways Board is intended and designed to provide a regular
forum dedicated to guiding the development and use of the city waterways and
the sound implementation of, among others, M.G.L. Chapter 91, M.G.L. Chapter
60B, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   The Waterways Board shall be comprised of nine volunteer members
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Boston City Council, and shall
include the Harbormaster and representatives from a variety of classes of users
of city waterways. The term of all appointees shall be three years, except that
the initial terms shall be staggered so that the terms of no more than three
appointees terminate in any single year.
   (C)   The Waterways Board shall annually review:
      (1)   The written procedures, policies and practices of the Harbormaster
and, upon such review, shall make written recommendations to the Harbormaster
and shall forward such recommendations to the City Clerk who shall forward them
to the Mayor and the Boston City Council;
      (2)   The written procedures, policies and practices of the Public
Recreational Boating Facilities and, upon such review, shall make written
recommendations to the Public Recreational Boating Facilities and shall forward
such recommendations to the Harbormaster and the City Clerk who shall forward
them to the Mayor and the Boston City Council;
      (3)   The amount of the fees assessed under these Sections and, upon such
review, shall make written recommendations to the Harbormaster and shall
forward such recommendations to the City Clerk who shall forward them to the
Mayor and the Boston City Council; and
      (4)   The annual report required pursuant to Subsection 16-48.14.
   (D)   Without compromising public safety and public health, the Waterways
Board shall recommend fees, policies, rules and regulations to promote the
greatest public access to and public use of the city waterways by residents,
visitors, businesses and other interested persons. The policy recommendations
of the Waterways Board shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City
Clerk who shall forward them to the Mayor and the Boston City Council, and the
policy recommendations may include, but not be limited to, appeals processes to
mitigate the number of appeals made to the commonwealth’s Department of
Environmental Protection, inspection requirements for moorings and waterways
fees. The Waterways Board may cooperate with any Municipal Harbor Plan Advisory
Committees to promote implementation of waterways usage elements of Municipal
Harbor Plans in the city. The Mayor with the approval of the Boston City
Council, may direct the Harbormaster to adopt or implement specific
recommendations made by the Waterways Board, and, to the extent required, shall
amend this Code to effect such recommendations. All meetings of the Waterways
Board shall be open to the general public with opportunity for public
participation.
(CBC 1985 16-48.15; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.16   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy, then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 16-48.16; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.17   Regulatory Authority.
   In consultation with the Waterways Board, the Harbormaster shall have the
authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections. To the extent that the regulations impact the excise
tax and the Municipal Waterways Improvement and Maintenance Fund, the
Harbormaster shall consult with the Assessor of the city and the Collector-
Treasurer of the city.
(CBC 1985 16-48.17; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.18   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-48.18; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-48.19   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately upon
passage, but no fees may be charged until January 1, 2005 and no fines may be
assessed until June 1, 2005.
(CBC 1985 16-48.19; Ord. 2004 c. 1 § 1)
16-49   IDENTIFYING JACKETS FOR VALET PARKERS.
16-49.1   Purpose.
   The Boston Transportation Department has established different parking
regulations to divide the city’s limited parking among residential and
commercial uses. Regulations on parking include the use of meters and the
issuance of permits, such as the residential parking permit and valet parking
permit. The Boston Transportation Department’s Traffic Rules and Regulations
govern valet parking operations and the issuance of valet parking permits, and
Article IVA, Section 2 of these regulations require valet parking personnel to
use only designated valet parking zones for the discharge and receiving of
passengers while Article IVA, Section 7.2 prohibits valet parking of a car in
any space that is not in an approved off-street parking facility. These
regulations seek to ensure that valet parking personnel do not park cars in
spaces that would otherwise be available to visitors and residents in a
neighborhood. City personnel face difficulty enforcing these provisions,
however, because valet parking personnel are not easily distinguished from the
public. Valet parking personnel are able to evade the restrictions and park
illegally at meters, in resident parking spaces and other inappropriate
locations. Enhancing the means of enforcing these parking regulations will help
ensure the proper use of on-street parking as delineated in the regulations of
the Boston Transportation Department. If able to distinguish between valet
parking personnel and the general public, the city personnel enforcing parking
restrictions and Valet Parking Permits could more easily identify violations of
these regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-49.1; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOSTON TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT. The Boston Transportation Department or
its successor.
   CBC. The City of Boston Code of Ordinances.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   VALET PARKING OPERATOR. Any employee or agent of a person, business,
establishment or corporation granted a valet parking permit pursuant to Article
IVA of the Traffic Rules and Regulations of the Boston Transportation
Department who is engaged in receiving or discharging passengers or loading or
unloading baggage from a vehicle, making arrangements to remove a vehicle to a
designated off-street parking facility, parking a vehicle or otherwise in
control of a vehicle subject to valet parking requirements pursuant to Article
IVA of the Traffic Rules and Regulations of the Boston Transportation
Department.
   VALET PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued to a person, business, establishment
or corporation pursuant to Article IVA of the Traffic Rules and Regulations of
the Boston Transportation Department.
(CBC 1985 16-49.2; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.3   Prohibition.
   (A)   No valet parking operator who is engaged in providing valet services,
including, but not limited to, receiving or discharging passengers or loading
or unloading baggage from a vehicle, making arrangements to remove the vehicle
to a designated off-street parking facility, parking a vehicle or otherwise in
control of a vehicle subject to valet parking requirements, may engage in such
activities unless the valet parking operator is wearing a jacket or shirt
clearly marked “VALET” across the back in reflective lettering that shall be
highly contrasting with the background/field/screen (i.e., dark-colored
reflective lettering on light-colored background or light-colored reflective
lettering on dark-colored background); each individual letter of the word
“VALET” shall be no smaller than 3 inches in height. The front of the jacket or
shirt worn by the valet parking operator shall include the name of the person,
business, establishment or corporation granted a valet parking permit.
   (B)   Compliance with these Sections shall require the jacket or shirt
required in this Section to be the outermost garment worn by the valet parking
operator.
(CBC 1985 16-49.3; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.4   Enforcement and Penalties.
   (A)   The Boston Transportation Department, including, but not limited to,
the Parking Clerk, or his or her designee or agent, and the Boston Police
Department shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this Section
pursuant to Section 6-6 and to Article IVA of the Traffic Rules and Regulations
of the Boston Transportation Department.
   (B)   Any violation of this Section may be subject to a fine of $100, as
well as any other parking violation fines and penalties as set forth in Section
6-6 and in the Traffic Rules and Regulations of the Boston Transportation
Department. A penalty of $33 shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid 21
days after issuance of a notice of such violation.
   (C)   Two or more violations of this Section in a calendar year by a valet
parking operator may result in the suspension or revocation of the valet
parking permit according to the regulations set forth in Section 9 of Article
IVA of the Traffic Rules and Regulations of the Boston Transportation
Department.
   (D)   No valet parking permit may be renewed, be removed from suspension, or
be reinstated following revocation until all fines issued thereunder have been
fully satisfied.
(CBC 1985 16-49.4; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.5   Exemptions.
   Hotels with uniformed door and valet services shall be exempt from the
requirements of these Sections. Addresses/buildings that are wholly residential
with uniformed door and valet services shall be exempt from the requirements of
these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-49.5; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.6   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 16-49.6; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.7   Regulatory Authority.
   The Boston Transportation Department shall have the authority to promulgate
rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-49.7; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.8   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-49.8; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-49.9   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately, but no
penalties are authorized until the sooner of:
   (A)   Boston Transportation Department’s approval of a valet parking
permitholder’s application for or renewal of a valet parking permit; or
   (B)   July 1, 2005.
(CBC 1985 16-49.9; Ord. 2004 c. 9)
16-50   AFTER-HOURS PARTIES.
16-50.1   Purpose.
   The incidences of gatherings known as “house parties” or “after-hours
parties” which typically occur in the late-night and early-morning hours have a
history of disturbing residents of the city, but they have recently begun to
attract violence into neighborhoods. The Boston Police Department has
instituted “Operation Party Time” and other programs as direct responses to
these disturbances and acts of violence. These Sections are intended to provide
the authorities with some legislative tools including civil penalties and
fines, to assist the Boston Police Department with its efforts to stop such
parties in progress and prevent future occurrences of them to enhance the
public safety of the city and to improve the quality of life in the
neighborhoods of the city.
(CBC 1985 16-50.1; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTER-HOURS PARTY. An unpermitted or unlicensed gathering of individuals at
a residential dwelling unit after 11:00 p.m. at which money is collected as an
admission charge and at which alcohol is served.
   BPD. The Boston Police Department.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   OCCUPANT. Any invitee, licensee, lessee or tenant in a residential dwelling
unit, including, but not limited to, a house, a condominium or an apartment.
   OWNER. Any person or entity that owns a residential dwelling unit,
including, but not limited to, a house, a condominium or an apartment.
(CBC 1985 16-50.2; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.3   Prohibitions.
   The prohibitions and fines in this Section shall supplement any and all
other civil and/or criminal penalties allowed by law, ordinance, code or
regulation, specifically including, but not limited to, Section 16-26.
   (A)   No occupant of a residential dwelling unit shall organize, host,
manage, promote, facilitate, suffer or allow the occurrence of an after-hours
party. Each and every violation of this provision shall be subject to a fine of
$300.
   (B)   No owner of a residential dwelling unit shall organize, host, manage,
promote, facilitate, suffer or allow the occurrence of an after-hours party.
Each and every violation of this provision shall be subject to a fine of $300
except in the event of an off-site owner/landlord in which case the off-site
owner/landlord shall be issued a written notice of violation/warning for a
first incident and shall be subject to the fine in this Subsection for the
second such violation and for each and every violation thereafter.
   (C)   No person shall serve alcohol or otherwise act as a bartender during
or at an after-hours party. Each and every violation of this provision shall be
subject to a fine of $300.
   (D)   No owner or occupant shall hire, employ, encourage, manage,
facilitate, suffer or allow a person to serve alcohol or otherwise act as a
bartender during or at an after-hours party. Each and every violation of this
provision shall be subject to a fine of $300 except in the event of an off-site
owner/landlord in which case the off-site owner/landlord shall be issued a
written notice of violation/warning for a first incident and shall be subject
to the fine in this Subsection for the second such violation and for each and
every violation thereafter.
   (E)   No person shall collect money in advance of, during or at an after-
hours party for admission to an after-hours party. Each and every violation of
this provision shall be subject to a fine of $300.
   (F)   No owner or occupant shall hire, employ, encourage, manage,
facilitate, suffer or allow a person to collect money in advance of, during or
at an after-hours party for admission to an after-hours party. Each and every
violation of this provision shall be subject to a fine of $300 except in the
event of an off-site owner/landlord in which case the off-site owner/landlord
shall be issued a written notice of violation/warning for a first incident and
shall be subject to the fine in this Subsection for the second such violation
and for each and every violation thereafter.
   (G)   No person, commonly referred to as a “DJ”, shall deploy or use any
electric, electronic, technical, computer or other audio equipment to provide
musical entertainment at an after-hours party in a manner that violates the
unreasonable noise ordinances of the city. Each and every violation of this
provision shall be subject to a fine of $300. Any electric, electronic,
technical, computer or other audio equipment to provide musical entertainment
at an after-hours party may be confiscated by the Boston Police Department and
may be retrieved only upon the full payment of any fine issued pursuant to this
Subsection and upon the full payment of a storage fee in the amount of $20 per
day or portion thereof that the equipment is stored.
   (H)   No owner or occupant shall hire, employ, encourage, manage,
facilitate, suffer or allow a person, commonly referred to as a “DJ”, to deploy
or use any electric, electronic, technical, computer or other amplified audio
equipment to provide musical entertainment at an after-hours party in a manner
that violates the unreasonable noise ordinances of the city. Each and every
violation of this provision shall be subject to a fine of $300 except in the
event of an off-site owner/landlord in which case the off-site owner/landlord
shall be issued a written notice of violation/warning for a first incident and
shall be subject to the fine in this Subsection for the second such violation
and for each and every violation thereafter.
   (I)   No person shall purchase or procure alcohol for service or sale at an
after-hours party. Each and every violation of this provision shall be subject
to a fine of $300.
(CBC 1985 16-50.3; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.4   Applicability.
   If any provision of these Sections imposes greater restrictions or
obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law,
regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy, then the provisions of these
Sections shall control.
(CBC 1985 16-50.4; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.5   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these
Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-50.5; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.6   Severability.
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-50.6; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-50.7   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately upon passage
and all provisions shall be enforced immediately but no monetary fine shall be
imposed pursuant hereto until 30 days after passage.
(CBC 1985 16-50.7; Ord. 2005 c. 5)
16-51   CRACK PIPES.
16-51.1   Prohibition Against Sale.
   No person shall sell or display for sale a device used to smoke freebase or
crack cocaine known as a “crack pipe”. A crack pipe is generally made from a
small glass tube that is on average, 4 inches to 5 inches long and
approximately ¼ inch in diameter and is sometimes referred to as a “stem”,
“horn”, “blaster” or “straight shooter”. Crack pipes sometimes contain a small
paper flower and may be promoted as a romantic gift with the buyers usually
requesting a “rose” or a “flower”.
(CBC 1985 16-51.1; Ord. 2007 c. 4)
16-51.2   Prohibition Against Possession.
   No person shall possess a device used to smoke freebase or crack cocaine
known as a “crack pipe”. A crack pipe is generally made from a small glass tube
that is on average, 4 inches to 5 inches long and approximately ¼ inch in
diameter and is sometimes referred to as a “stem”, “horn”, “blaster” or
“straight shooter”. Crack pipes sometimes contain a small paper flower and may
be promoted as a romantic gift with the buyers usually requesting a “rose” or a
“flower”.
(CBC 1985 16-51.2; Ord. 2007 c. 4)
16-51.3   Penalty.
   A violation of these Sections shall be punished by a fine in the amount of
$300. Each and every crack pipe shall be considered to be a separate and
distinct violation.
(CBC 1985 16-51.3; Ord. 2007 c. 4)
16-51.4   Implementation.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately upon
passage.
(CBC 1985 16-51.4; Ord. 2007 c. 4)
16-52   MAINTENANCE OF VACANT, FORECLOSING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
16-52.1   Purpose.
   (A)   It is the intent of this Section to protect and preserve public
safety, security and quiet enjoyment of occupants, abutters and neighborhoods
by:
      (1)   Requiring all residential property owners, including lenders,
trustees and service companies, to properly maintain vacant and/or foreclosing
properties; and
      (2)   Regulating the maintenance of vacant and/or foreclosing residential
properties to prevent blighted and unsecure residences.
   (B)   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department has
enforcement authority pursuant to, inter alia, M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 3,
the commonwealth’s Building Code and the city’s Zoning Code.
   (C)   Delegation of authority: The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department may delegate enforcement of this Section to any City Department
authorized to enforce public safety, health or environmental laws and
regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-52.1; Ord. 2008 c. 1; Ord. 2014 c. 1 § 4)
16-52.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   FORECLOSING. The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is prepared for sale to satisfy the debt if the borrower defaults.
   INITIATION OF THE FORECLOSURE PROCESS. Taking any of the following actions:
      (1)   Taking possession of a residential property pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 244, Section 1;
      (2)   Delivering the mortgagee’s notice of intention to foreclose to the
borrower pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 244, Section 17B; or
      (3)   Commencing a foreclosure action on a property in either the Land
Court or Suffolk Superior Court.
   LOCAL. Within 20 driving miles distance of the property in question.
   MORTGAGEE. The creditor, including, but not limited to, service companies,
lenders in a mortgage agreement and any agent, servant or employee of the
mortgagee, or any successor in interest and/or assignee of the mortgagee’s
rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage agreement.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Every person, entity, service company, property manager or real
estate broker, who alone or severally with others:
         (a)   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a mobile
home park;
         (b)   Has care, charge or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
mobile dwelling unit or parcel of land, vacant or otherwise, including a mobile
home park, in any capacity including, but not limited to, agent, executor,
executrix, administrator, administratix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the holder of legal title;
         (c)   Is a mortgagee in possession of any such property;
         (d)   Is an agent, trustee or other person appointed by the courts and
vested with possession or control of any such property; or
         (e)   Is an officer or trustee of the association of unit owners of a
condominium. Each such person is bound to comply with the provisions of these
minimum standards as if he or she were the owner. However, this Section shall
not apply to a Condominium Association created pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 183A
to the extent that such Association forecloses on or initiates the foreclosure
process for unpaid assessments due or owing to the Association.
      (2)   OWNER also means every person who operates a rooming house; or is a
trustee who holds, owns or controls mortgage loans for mortgage backed
securities transactions and has initiated the foreclosure process.
   PROPERTY. Any real, residential property, or portion thereof, located in the
city, including building or structures situated on the property. For purposes
of this Section only, PROPERTY does not include property owned or subject to
the control of the city or any of its’ governmental bodies. Such property
includes, but is not limited to, property owned or controlled by the Boston
Redevelopment Authority, Boston Housing Authority and Department of
Neighborhood Development.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property that contains one or more dwelling units
used, intended or designed to be occupied for living purposes.
   SECURING. Measures that assist in making the property inaccessible to
unauthorized persons.
   VACANT. Any property not currently legally occupied and not properly
maintained or secured.
(CBC 1985 16-52.2; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.3   Registration of Vacant and/or Foreclosing Residential Properties;
Duty to Provide Written Notice of Vacant, Residential Property and/or Mortgage
Foreclosure.
   (A)   All owners must register vacant and/or foreclosing residential
properties with the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department on
forms provided by the Commissioner. All registrations must state the individual
owner’s or Agent’s phone number and mailing address located within the
commonwealth as required by M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 57D, M.G.L. Chapter
156D, Section 5.02 and 950 CMR 113.20. The mailing address may not be a post
office box. This registration must also certify that the property was inspected
and identify whether the property is vacant at the time of filing. If the
property is vacant, the owner and/or registrant must designate and retain a
local individual or local property management company responsible for the
security and maintenance of the property. This designation must state the
individual or company’s name, phone number and local mailing address. The
mailing address may not be a post office box. If the property is in the process
of foreclosure, then the registration must be received within seven days of the
initiation of the foreclosure process as defined in Subsection 16-52.2. If the
Commissioner determines that the property is vacant and that foreclosure
proceedings have not been initiated, the registration must be received within
14 days of the Commissioner’s first citation for improper maintenance.
   (B)   All property registrations are valid for one calendar year. An annual
registration fee of $100 must accompany the registration form. Subsequent
annual registrations and fees are due within 30 days of the expiration of the
previous registration and must certify whether the foreclosing and/or
foreclosed property remains vacant or not.
   (C)   Once the property is no longer vacant or is sold, the owner must
provide proof of sale or written notice and proof of occupancy to the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department.
   (D)   The Inspectional Services Department shall maintain a list of
properties registered pursuant to this Section and make it available to the
public upon request. The list of registered properties shall also be made
accessible through the city’s website and updated as practicable.
(CBC 1985 16-52.3; Ord. 2008 c. 1; Ord. 2010 c. 7)
16-52.4   Maintenance Requirements.
   (A)   Properties subject to this Section must be maintained in accordance
with the relevant Sanitary Codes, Building Codes and local regulations
concerning external and/or visible maintenance. The owner, local individual or
local property management company must inspect and maintain the property on a
monthly basis for the duration of the vacancy.
   (B)   The property must contain a posting with the name and 24-hour contact
phone number of the local individual or property management company responsible
for the maintenance. The sign must also indicate the name, address and
telephone number of the property owner and the owner’s authorized Agent for the
purpose of service of process. This sign must be posted on the front of the
property so it is clearly visible.
   (C)   When a building is vacant, unguarded and open to unauthorized entry,
all building openings must be closed, secured and protected as follows.
      (1)   When a building is vacant, all building openings shall be closed
and secured to prevent entry by unauthorized persons in a manner not
inconsistent with rules and regulations issued by the Inspectional Services
Department for securing vacant buildings.
      (2)   For a building that is determined by the Inspectional Services
Department to be chronically or habitually violated or upon any renewal of the
registration statement required in Subsection 16-52.3, the property owner must
implement and provide proof satisfactory to the Inspectional Services
Department that, in addition to complying with the security standards set forth
elsewhere in this Section, said building either: contains all of the security
features set forth in division (C)(2)(a) below, or is unviolated, as described
in division (C)(2)(b) below.
         (a)   Every opening larger than one square foot in area that is
located less than 8 feet above the ground or that is accessible from ground
level or within 8 feet in any direction of an exterior stairway, fire escape or
other means of access shall be secured using practices and materials approved
by the Inspectional Services Department and the Office of the City Fire
Marshal, including, but not limited to, stainless steel plates or shutters,
steel mesh grates, lexan panels and concrete blocks.
         (b)   1.   For purposes of this Section only, the term UNVIOLATED
shall refer to a building that:
               a.   Has a permanent door or window, as applicable, in each
appropriate building opening and that has each such door or window secured to
prevent unauthorized entry; and
               b.   Has all its door and window components, including, without
limitation, frames, jambs, rails, stiles, muntins, mullions, panels, sashes,
lights and panes, intact and unbroken.
            2.   A building that does not meet the definition of “unviolated”
shall be deemed “violated”.
         (c)   It shall be a violation of this Section for a vacant building to
become violated, if the owner has otherwise represented proof to the
Inspectional Services Department that such building is unviolated. With respect
to a vacant building represented by the owner as unviolated, if the
Commissioner determines, based on an inspection by the Inspectional Services
Department or a report prepared by another City Agency and provided to the
Inspectional Services Department, that such building is violated, the
Commissioner shall send by certified mail a written notice of violation to the
person responsible for the day-to-day supervision and management of the
building or to the authorized agent for service of process as identified on the
sign required by division (B) above, or if there is no such sign, then sent by
certified mail to the owner of record. Within 30 days of the mailing of such
notice of violation, the owner shall be required to comply with this division
(C).
   (D)   Adherence to this Section does not relieve the owner of any applicable
obligations set forth in Code regulations, Covenant Conditions and Restrictions
and/or Home Owners Association rules and regulations.
(CBC 1985 16-52.4; Ord. 2008 c. 1; Ord. 2010 c. 7)
16-52.5   Inspections.
   The Inspectional Services Department shall have the authority and the duty
to inspect properties subject to this Section for compliance and to issue
citations for any violations. The Inspectional Services Department shall have
the discretion to determine when and how such inspections are to be made;
provided that their policies are reasonably calculated to ensure that this
Section is enforced.
(CBC 1985 16-52.5; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16.52.6   Enforcement and Penalties.
   (A)   Failure to initially register with the Commissioner is punishable by a
fine of $300.
   (B)   If applicable, failure to properly identify the name of the local
individual or local property management company is punishable by a fine of
$300.
   (C)   Failure to maintain the property is punishable by a fine up to $300
for each week the property is not maintained.
   (D)   All monies collected pursuant to this Section shall be directed to a
specific Inspectional Services Department Enforcement Fund.
(CBC 1985 16-52.6; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.7   Appeal.
   Any person aggrieved by the requirements of this Section may seek an
administrative appeal to the Inspectional Service Department. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision issued under this Section by the Inspectional
Services Department, may seek relief in any court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by the laws of the commonwealth.
(CBC 1985 16-52.7; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.8   Applicability.
   If any provision of this Section imposes greater restrictions or obligations
than those imposed by any other general law, special law, regulation, rule,
ordinance, by-law, order or policy then the provisions of this Section control.
(CBC 1985 16-52.8; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.9   Regulatory Authority.
   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department has the authority
to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce this
Section. These rules may allow for additional materials which may be used to
secure a building, pursuant to the requirements set forth in Subsection 16-
52.4, if proof is provided, satisfactory to the Commissioner, that such
materials will perform in a manner equivalent to, or better than, the materials
specified herein.
(CBC 1985 16-52.9; Ord. 2008 c. 1; Ord. 2010 c. 7)
16-52.10   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-52.10; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.11   Implementation.
   The provisions of this Section are effective immediately upon passage and
all provisions shall be enforced immediately but no monetary fine shall be
imposed pursuant hereto until 90 days after passage.
(CBC 1985 16-52.11; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-52.12   Notice.
   A copy of this Section is to be mailed to all owners of residential property
located in the city. In addition, a copy of this Section is to be mailed to all
loan institutions, banks, real estate offices and management companies located
in and/or having legal or equitable interest in residential property located in
the city.
(CBC 1985 16-52.12; Ord. 2008 c. 1)
16-53   CLEANING OF COMMERCIAL COOKING HOOD AND VENTILATION SYSTEMS.
16-53.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to establish requirements for the inspection
of grease buildup and for the cleaning of hoods, grease removal devices, fans,
ducts and cooking equipment by commercial contractors for said services.
(CBC 1985 16-53.1; Ord. 2008 c. 2)
16-53.2   Applicability.
   This Section shall apply to all existing structures subject to inspection
and review by the city’s Inspectional Services and Fire Departments. The
Commissioners of the Boston Fire Department and the Inspectional Services
Department may promulgate any additional rules and/or regulations under the
scope of this Section as needed.
(CBC 1985 16-53.2; Ord. 2008 c. 2)
16-53.3   Procedures.
   (A)   Certification and registration.
      (1)   Any person offering their services to inspect for grease buildup or
to clean commercial cooking hood and ventilation systems, whether as an outside
contractor or as a business providing the service to itself, shall be certified
as a qualified inspector or commercial cooking hood and ventilation system
cleaner respectively. Each individual of a company engaged in the cleaning or
inspecting for grease buildup of commercial cooking hood and ventilation
systems must obtain certification prior to engaging in cleaning or inspection
services. Each company engaged in the cleaning or inspecting for grease buildup
of commercial cooking hood and ventilation systems must employ enough certified
technicians to maintain a minimum of one certified technician during cleaning
operations at each cleaning site. For purposes of this Section only, CERTIFIED
shall mean that a person has met all of the requirements of a Boston Fire
Department approved certifying agency’s training program and/or certification
exam.
      (2)   The Boston Fire Department shall publish a list of accepted
certifying agencies. In addition to registration requirements in division (A)
(3) below obtaining certification from one of these agencies will meet the
requirements of this Section. Only those individuals registered and certified
as being qualified to inspect for grease buildup or to clean commercial cooking
hood and ventilation systems will be authorized to perform those respective
services regulated under this Section within the city.
      (3)   Each individual offering to provide services within the city to
inspect for grease buildup or to clean commercial cooking hood and ventilation
systems shall also register with the Boston Fire Department, Fire Prevention
Division upon obtaining their certification. An annual application for
registration authorizing inspection and/or cleaning services within the city
must be accompanied by the proof of certification, and an annual application
fee of $25. Upon approval of the application by the Boston Fire Department, an
individual and/or company will be considered authorized to conduct cleaning
and/or inspection services within the city. Registration will expire at the end
of each calendar year and shall require annual renewal.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the individual to keep his or her
certification active.
      (5)   Any loss or expiration of certification must be reported to the
Boston Fire Department within five days of loss of said certification.
      (6)   After registration, any changes in employment, as well as other
application data must be reported to the Boston Fire Department within five
days of the change.
      (7)   Each year the Fire Department will publish a roll of registered
cleaners and inspectors on February 1.
      (8)   Failure to follow the requirements of this Section, failure to
maintain certification, failure to renew registration or if inspecting and/or
cleaning is deemed not in accordance with NFPA 96 as referenced by 527 CMR
11.00, may result in fines and/or the revocation of registration to inspect for
grease buildup or to clean commercial cooking hood and ventilation systems
within the city.
   (B)   Inspection and cleaning of commercial cooking hood and ventilation
systems.
      (1)   Inspection frequency. Commercial cooking hood and ventilation
systems and cooking equipment shall be inspected by a certified inspector or
cleaner for grease buildup in accordance with the inspection schedule of NFPA
96 as referenced by 527 CMR 11.00.
      (2)   Cleaning frequency. A certified person shall clean to bare metal,
hoods, grease-removal devices, fans, ducts, cooking equipment and other
appurtenances. The person to perform the actual cleaning shall be certified in
the cleaning of commercial cooking hood and ventilation systems. The cleaning
schedule shall be at the same interval as the inspection schedule prescribed in
NFPA 96 as referenced by 527 CMR 11.00.
      (3)   Signage. Following inspection and/or cleaning, the certified person
providing such services shall place or display within the kitchen area, a label
indicating the date inspected and/or cleaned, the name of the servicing company
(company certification number and individual’s name and certification number)
and their Fire Department registration number. It shall also indicate areas not
inspected and/or cleaned and the reason why the service could not be performed,
and if it is scheduled to be performed at another date. The label shall be
attached to the exterior of the hood in a visible location. The schedule for
the inspecting and/or cleaning frequency shall be maintained on site and
available for viewing upon request of Fire Department and Inspectional Services
inspectors.
      (4)   Reports. Reports associated with the inspection and/or cleaning of
the hood and vent system shall be maintained on site by the business owner.
These reports shall be available for viewing upon request of an inspector from
the Inspectional Services or Boston Fire Departments.
   (C)   Inspection and cleaning for solid-fuel cooking.
      (1)   Solid-fuel cooking appliances shall be inspected, cleaned and
maintained in accordance with the procedures outlined in NFPA 96, Standard for
Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations as
referenced by 527 CMR 11.00.
   (D)   Deficiency reports. In addition to any requirements outlined in NFPA
96, as referenced by 527 CMR 11.00, if any required cleaning or inspection is
incomplete or unable to be performed for any reason, the certified person
providing such services shall provide a written report to the Boston Fire
Department within five days of said failure to clean and/or inspect. Said
report shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The physical address at which inspection and/or cleaning were
unable to occur;
      (2)   The name of the owner of said premises;
      (3)   The date on which the certified person attempted to inspect and/or
clean the premises; and
      (4)   The specific reason why the service could not be performed pursuant
to NFPA 96 standards.
(CBC 1985 16-53.3; Ord. 2008 c. 2)
16-53.4   Penalties.
   (A)   Violation of the conditions of this Section whether by the proprietor
of the establishment, property owner or the hood cleaning/inspecting company
shall subject the violator to a fine of $200 per day payable to the Boston Fire
Department. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. Revenues collected from said fines shall be used to educate and train
Boston Fire Department and Building Inspectors on NFPA 96.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, the Commissioner of ISD, upon a
determination that any violation constitutes an immediate and severe threat to
the public health and safety, may order the immediate closure of any premises,
without prior notice and hearing but otherwise with subsequent notice and
hearing.
(CBC 1985 16-53.4; Ord. 2008 c. 2)
16-53.5   Effective Date.
   The provisions of these Sections shall become effective within 365 days of
its passage.
(CBC 1985 16-53.5; Ord. 2008 c. 2)
16-54   PROHIBITION AGAINST SALVIA DIVINORUM.
16-54.1   Sale Prohibited.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale or possess Salvia Divinorum or
Salvinorin A within the city.
(CBC 1985 16-54.1; Ord. 2009 c. 1)
16-54.2   Exception.
   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any drug product approved
by the United States Food and Drug Administration that contains Salvia
Divinorum or Salvinorin A.
(CBC 1985 16-54.2; Ord. 2009 c. 1)
16-54.3   Fines.
   A violation of these Sections shall be punished by a fine in the amount of
$300.
(CBC 1985 16-54.3; Ord. 2009 c. 1)
16-54.4   Enforcement.
   The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to enforce these
provisions and shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
necessary to implement and enforce these Sections.
(CBC 1985 16-54.4; Ord. 2009 c. 1)
16-55   UNPAID MUNICIPAL FINES.
   In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 40U, adopted by the Boston City Council on
May 14, 2010.
   (A)   The procedures for the collection of unpaid municipal fines, as set
out by M.G.L. Chapter 40U, are hereby adopted.
   (B)   This Section covers the enforcement of ordinances designated for
enforcement under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D by the
Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department.
   (C)   The city shall assess an additional $10 processing fee on any fine
which remains unpaid and unappealed at the expiration of 21 days following the
issuance of the citation.
   (D)   Any fine which remains unpaid for 30 days after the second notice as
required by M.G.L. Chapter 40U shall be subject to an additional penalty of
$10.
   (E)   Thereafter, any fine and additional penalties may become an additional
assessment on the property owner’s tax bill and a lien on the property to which
the violation relates.
(CBC 1985 16-55; Ord. 2010 c. 8)
16-56   PENALTIES FOR VALID COMPLAINT PROBLEM PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POLICE RESPONSE. Any and all Police action deemed appropriate by the
Police Commissioner to protect the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of
a property or location where valid complaints have been documented.
Coordination of Police action shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the Boston Police Department.
      PROBLEM PROPERTY. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in Subsection
16-57.2.
      VALID COMPLAINT. An investigated finding, documented by on-duty Boston
Police Department personnel dispatched or caused to respond to an incident,
that a criminal offense has taken place in a dwelling unit within a property,
on a particular property or at a specific location which disturbs the health,
safety and welfare of other inhabitants of said property or location. The term
shall not include incidents involving an occupant of the premises as the victim
of the crime.
   (B)   Police response. The Police Commissioner, as deemed appropriate to
protect the health, safety and welfare of other inhabitants of a property or
location where a valid complaint has been made, is hereby authorized and
empowered to assign a member or members of the Boston Police Department to
staff as Police response on said property or location:
      (1)   Upon being dispatched or caused to respond to an incident, in a
dwelling unit within a property, on a particular property or at a specific
location, involving a criminal offense, Boston Police Department personnel
shall investigate the complaint to determine whether it is a valid complaint;
      (2)   Upon finding a valid complaint, Boston Police Department personnel
shall make a record of the incident and shall keep, within the Department’s
control, a record of the number of incidents which occur in said dwelling unit
within a property, particular property or location; and
      (3)   After four valid complaint incidents have occurred in a 12-month
period relating to the occupancy of a dwelling unit within a property, on a
particular property or at a specific location, the Police Commissioner, or his
or her designee, may notify the Chair of the Mayor’s Task Force on Problem
Properties and shall submit to the Chair the all-calls report relating to
Police response at said dwelling, particular property or location.
   (C)   Duties of the Task Force.
      (1)   The Chair shall create a master file of all information received
from the Commissioner pertaining to that dwelling unit, particular property or
location and shall discuss said information with the members of the Task Force
at a monthly meeting held at City Hall.
      (2)   If a specific address falls within the definition of a problem
property, the Chair of the Task Force shall notify, in writing, the property
owner by regular and certified mail, return receipt requested, sent to the
property owner’s residence or usual place of business that is on record at the
Assessor’s Office. The Task Force notification shall identify:
         (a)   The property owner and list the specific address that has been
designated a problem property;
         (b)   The number of valid complaint incidents which have occurred on
said property within a 12-month period;
         (c)   The Boston Police District Captain the property owner may
contact to coordinate a plan to resolve the incidents at the particular
property or location, and/or inform the Boston Police of problem occupant(s);
and
         (d)   Where and to whom the property owner must address a letter of
appeal of the Task Force’s decision.
      (3)   In making a final designation of a property as a problem property,
the Chair of the Task Force shall take into consideration the nature of the
complaints, the number of dwelling units at the property and the nature of the
use of said property.
      (4)   Upon receipt of confirmation from the Police Commissioner, or his
or her designee, that the owner of a particular property deemed problematic has
cooperated with the Boston Police Department in addressing each specified valid
complaint, the Task Force shall remove said property from designation as a
problem property.
   (D)   Cost of Police response assigned to problem properties.
      (1)   The Police Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall keep an
accurate record of the cost of Police response to a dwelling unit within a
property, a particular property or a specific location and such record shall
include the number of Officers who are part of the determined response.
      (2)   The Police Commissioner shall forward such record to the Collector-
Treasurer.
      (3)   After eight valid complaint incidents in a 12-month period relating
to occupants of a dwelling unit within a property, a particular property or a
specific location, the Police Commissioner, at his or her discretion, shall
determine whether the cost of a Police response should be assessed to the
property owner and shall notify and submit said determination to the Chair of
the Task Force.
      (4)   The Chair of the Task Force shall notify, in writing, the property
owner of the Commissioner’s decision to assess the cost of the Police response.
The Task Force notification shall:
         (a)   Be delivered by regular and certified mail, return receipt
requested, sent to the property owner’s residence or usual place of business
that is on record at the Assessor’s Office;
         (b)   Identify the number of valid complaint incidents that have
occurred since the first notification;
         (c)   Where appropriate, inform the property owner of his or her
failure to contact the Boston Police District Captain to coordinate a plan to
resolve the incidents at a dwelling unit within a property, particular property
or location and/or inform the Boston Police of problem occupant(s);
         (d)   Inform the property owner that he or she shall be subject to the
penalties addressed in division (E) below;
         (e)   Indicate where and to whom the property owner must address a
letter of appeal of Police response costs assigned to him or her; and
         (f)   Inform the property owner he or she has seven days to file an
appeal.
      (5)   The Police Commissioner should consider the following factors in
making his or her decision to assess costs:
         (a)   The nature, scope and seriousness of the incident(s);
         (b)   Whether the incident(s) resulted in an arrest;
         (c)   A history of criminal activity taking place at the property or
location;
         (d)   The property owner’s, and occupant’s, willingness to cooperate
with Police; and
         (e)   The total number of properties owned by the property owner
relative to the number of said properties deemed problematic.
      (6)   Nothing in this Section shall limit the statutory authority of the
Police Commissioner to investigate crimes, allocate Police resources and
enforce the laws of the commonwealth and the city.
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   The Collector-Treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to bill
the property owner for the costs the city incurred for its Police response in
addition to any incidental costs during the period of Police response to the
particular property or location. The property owner is responsible for payment
of the bill in full within 30 days of receiving the bill. All amounts collected
by the Collector-Treasurer shall be deposited into the General Fund of the
city.
      (2)   Any unpaid bill for Police response, including interest and/or
collection costs, shall be added to the real estate tax on the property and
collected as part of that tax. Failure to pay real estate taxes will render the
property owner delinquent and the Collector-Treasurer shall commence
foreclosure proceedings.
   (F)   Property owner’s rights.
      (1)   The property owner may, within seven days of receipt of the Task
Force’s notification, appeal the Commissioner’s decision to assess costs by
requesting, in writing, a hearing before a three person panel appointed by the
Mayor.
      (2)   A three person panel appointed by the Mayor shall be assembled as
follows:
         (a)   At least one member shall be a nominee of the Greater Boston
Real Estate Board;
         (b)   One seat on the panel shall be appointed to a member of a
neighborhood crimewatch, a member of a neighborhood association and a member of
a community development corporation, who shall rotate in their service on the
panel; and
         (c)   The third member shall be a resident of the city.
      (3)   Once the panel makes a decision, it must be in writing. If the
panel finds in favor of the property owner, the cost of the penalty shall be
abated.
   (G)   Eviction. In the event the property owner has, in good faith,
commenced eviction proceedings against the tenant(s) responsible for the
incidents at the property, then the application of this Section shall be stayed
until the eviction process is concluded. The Police Commissioner of the
Department may continue Police response at the particular property or location,
at his or her discretion, at all times after the eviction proceeding has been
completed; provided, however, that such costs shall not be assessed to the
property owner if the eviction proceedings conclude in favor of the property
owner.
   (H)   Charges to constitute municipal lien pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 58. All charges to recover costs imposed in this Section shall
constitute a municipal lien on the property so charged in accordance with
M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 58.
   (I)   Report. The Chair of the Task Force shall submit a report to the Mayor
and Boston City Council no later than three months after the one-year
anniversary of the enactment date of this Section. This report shall include
the total cost of administration of this Section, as well as an accounting of
all revenues collected in association with it. Said report shall also contain
data regarding all dwellings within a property, particular properties or
locations which remain problem properties and those that are no longer
designated as problem properties. The report shall also include the general
impact, if any, that the implementation of this order has had on the health,
safety and welfare of residents of the city.
(CBC 1985 16-56; Ord. 2011 c. 9)
16-57   PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES.
16-57.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to empower the city to Police properties that
have become a public nuisance by exhibiting a notorious atmosphere of criminal
and other disturbing activity so elevated as to endanger the common good and
general welfare of a specific neighborhood or the city in general.
(CBC 1985 16-57.1; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROBLEM PROPERTY. Meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The Boston Police Department has been called to the property not
fewer than four times within the preceding 12-month period for any incident
involving any criminal offense including, but not limited to, disturbing the
peace, trespassing, underage drinking or assault;
      (2)   The Air Pollution Control Commission has received not fewer than
four sustained complaints for noise within the preceding 12-month period; or
      (3)   The Inspectional Services Department or the Public Health
Commission have received not fewer than four sustained and upheld complaints
within the preceding 12-month period for noxious, noisome or unsanitary
conditions. Provided, however, that in making a final designation of a property
as a PROBLEM PROPERTY, the Chair of the Task Force shall take into
consideration the nature of the complaints, the number of dwelling units at the
property and the nature of the use of said property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An unreasonable interference with a right common to the
general public, such as a condition dangerous to health, offensive to community
moral standards or that otherwise threatens the general welfare of a
neighborhood or the city in general through documented pervasive criminal
activity, code violations or other causes precipitating the deployment of any
city resource.
(CBC 1985 16-57.2; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.3   Application.
   Any property in the city that is found by the Mayor’s Problem Properties
Task Force to be a problem property as defined in Subsection 16-57.2 shall
constitute a public nuisance. The Chair of the Task Force shall formally
communicate to the Mayor, and the Council President, that a property falling
within the definition of problem property is a public nuisance. The Chair of
the Task Force shall designate the appropriate member of the Task Force to
notify the owner of the property by regular and certified mail and the tenants
by affixing a notice of the violation to the front door.
(CBC 1985 16-57.3; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.4   Enforcement.
   After declaring the problem property a public nuisance, the members of the
Task Force heading the originating Department or the designee of the Chair of
the Task Force shall issue a citation to any or all of the tenants and the
owner of the property immediately for perpetuating the public nuisance at the
time of any incident requiring the deployment of any City resources or
personnel following the property being placed on the problem properties list.
(CBC 1985 16-57.4; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.5   Non-Criminal Dispositions.
   In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, the city may pursue a
non-criminal disposition of any citation issued for violations under this
chapter.
(CBC 1985 16-57.5; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.6   Penalties.
   Any tenant residing within or owner of a problem property declared to be a
public nuisance cited under this chapter with violations prescribed by the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code or the commonwealth’s Building Code shall be fined
up to $300 for each criminal or non-criminal citation authorized by said codes
caused by their acts or omissions subsequent to the property being added to the
problem property list. If the violation is ongoing, each day that the violation
persists will constitute a separate violation for which an additional $300 fine
will be imposed.
(CBC 1985 16-57.6; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.7   Remediation.
   Any owner of a property determined to be a problem property shall file a
management plan with the Inspectional Services Department, within 30 days of
having been deemed a problem property that outlines and verifies the owner’s
strategy and steps devised to bring the property up to code.
(CBC 1985 16-57.7; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.8   Verifiable and Certified Inspection.
   (A)   (1)   In order for a property to be removed from the problem
properties list by the Problem Properties Task Force, an owner must file with
the Inspectional Services Department a sworn statement following an inspection
certifying that the property is in compliance with the minimum standards of
human habitability for a residential dwelling as set forth in the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code, being 105 CMR 400 and 410, as it may be adopted
or amended from time to time. The inspection shall be performed and the sworn
statement shall be signed by an Authorized Inspector which shall be defined as
a person who:
         (a)   Is a commonwealth-registered Sanitarian or a commonwealth-
certified Health Officer or a commonwealth-certified Home Inspector;
         (b)   Has demonstrated a proficiency in the application of the
commonwealth’s Sanitary Code by satisfactorily completing the ISD certificate
program for qualifying authorized professionals to perform inspections under
Subsection 9-1.3; and
         (c)   Has been issued a certificate of completion upon payment to ISD
of $125.
      (2)   An authorized inspector shall be prohibited from charging more than
133% of the fee charged by the city for an inspection performed under this
Section.
   (B)   This Section shall not apply to problem properties which have been
designated due to valid Police complaints.
(CBC 1985 16-57.8; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.9   Receivership.
   Should the owner of a property placed on the problem properties list not
respond to the Problem Properties Task Force notification within 60 days, the
Inspectional Services Department is authorized to petition the Housing Court
for the appointment of a receiver to rehabilitate that property.
(CBC 1985 16-57.9; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-57.10   Reporting.
   The Inspectional Services Department shall, no later than three months after
the one-year anniversary of the enactment date of this Section, dispatch to the
Mayor and Boston City Council’s Committee on Government Operations, a report on
all problem properties that were on the problem properties list during the
preceding year.
(CBC 1985 16-57.10; Ord. 2011 c. 10)
16-58   OVER-THE-AIR DEVICES (“OTARD”).
16-58.1   Purpose.
   This Section is applicable to the installation, maintenance, use or removal
of over-the-air reception devices (“OTARD”), for residential and non-
residential properties within the city.
(CBC 1985 16-58.1; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.2   Definitions.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this Section, the terms SATELLITE DISH and
ANTENNA have the same meaning as that provided for by the Federal
Communications Commission’s rules at 47 C.F.R. § 1.4000. SATELLITE DISH and
ANTENNA shall mean such device that is one meter or less in diameter, and is
designed to receive broadcast satellite service, including direct-to-home
satellite services or to receive or transmit fixed wireless signals via
satellite; or receive video programming services via wireless cable or to
receive or transmit fixed wireless signals other than satellite; or to receive
television broadcast signals. Hereinafter, the terms SATELLITE DISH and
ANTENNA shall be referred to collectively as eligible devices.
      (2)   It is further defined that eligible devices are those actively
subscribed or used by OTARD users, and such use and subscription are not
effectively terminated or expired.
   (B)   (1)   An OTARD USER is defined as any person who requested the
installation of eligible devices or actively subscribed the services via the
eligible devices defined in division (A) above. The OTARD users, either an
individual or legal person, or any combination of both, must have certain
leasehold or a proprietary interest in the properties where the eligible
devices are installed or used.
      (2)   The other responsible parties are anyone other than OTARD users,
who can be either an individual or legal person, or any combination of both,
and who are responsible for maintenance and removal of OTARD devices.
   (C)   An OTARD INSTALLER is defined as any person who installed eligible
devices upon request of OTARD user defined in division (B) above The OTARD
INSTALLER can be individuals or legal persons or any combination of both. The
installers include their affiliate service providers.
   (D)   NON-USE DEVICES are not eligible devices, and they are not actively
subscribed or used by the OTARD users or their use and subscription are
effectively terminated or expired.
   (E)   The DEPARTMENT means the Inspectional Services Department of the city.
   (F)   A UNIFIED STATEMENT means a written form approved by the Department,
which includes, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The name, address and contact information of OTARD user(s),
including the valid contact information of the property owner if the user is
not the owner;
      (2)   The name, address and valid contact information of OTARD
installers;
      (3)   The street address of the property where the OTARD is installed and
approximate location of installation;
      (4)   The statement that the eligible devices installed are actively
subscribed and used by OTARD users, and maintained or removed, if use and
subscription are effectively terminated or expired by such user(s) or other
responsible party, and their valid contact information;
      (5)   If applicable, a statement by OTARD installers or users that there
is no alternative location available within the properties without unreasonable
increase of cost of installation, use or maintenance or lack of installation
will impair the OTARD users ability to receive acceptable quality signals;
      (6)   If applicable, legitimate safety hazard being appropriately
addressed; and
      (7)   If applicable, any information on existing non-use devices, and
their removal status.
(CBC 1985 16-58.2; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.3   Installations.
   Effective on or after the effective date of this Section, no eligible
devices can be installed without applicable approval if such installation:
   (A)   Interferes with historic preservation;
   (B)   Constitutes a legitimate safety hazard, including, but not limited to,
placing eligible devices within the roofs, hallways, walkways or the exterior
walls unless such safety hazard is appropriately addressed. Legitimate safety
hazards also include, but are not limited to, installations around fire
escapes, windows, emergency exits or critical utilities infrastructures, which
may cause personal injury, death or property damages;
   (C)   Are not located within the exclusive use or control of OTARD users,
including, but not limited to, roofs, hallways, walkways or exterior walls; and
   (D)   Is between the exterior walls of properties and streets of public
travel unless an alternative location(s) impairs or imposes reception of
acceptable quality of signal or imposes unreasonable increase of expense or
delay.
(CBC 1985 16-58.3; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.4   Use and Maintenance.
   Effective on or after the effective date of this Section, the OTARD user and
installers must notify the Department, within 30 days of installation of
eligible devices in the unified statement of the party responsible for the
maintenance and removal of such devices.
(CBC 1985 16-58.4; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.5   Removal.
   (A)   The installer must use its best efforts to notify the users or other
responsible parties about effective expiration or termination of active use or
subscription.
   (B)   For any eligible device, installed or already in active use or
subscription on or after the effective date of this Section, the OTARD
installer, user or other responsible party must, within 60 days upon expiration
or termination of active use or subscription, remove, at their own cost and
expense, the non-use devices from the properties. The removal deadlines in
divisions (D) and (F) below shall not be applicable to this Subsection.
   (C)   (1)   For properties with existing non-use devices, no new eligible
devices shall be installed after effective date of this Section, unless and
until such existing devices are removed, or caused to be removed, at installers
own cost and expenses. If lack of new installation impairs the ability of the
OTARD user to receive an acceptable quality signal or imposes an unreasonable
increase of expense or delay, the installer must remove the existing non-use
devices within ten days of new installation. The deadlines in division (B)
above and divisions (D) and (F) below shall not be applicable to this
Subsection.
      (2)   The user or/and other responsible parties, and installer must work
cooperatively, to the best of their ability, to identify and remove such non-
use devices.
   (D)   Excluding those described in divisions (B) and (C) above, if the
existing non-use devices can be reasonably identified by and/or with a
particular installer, such installer must remove such devices at their own cost
and expenses no later than January 1, 2014.   
   (E)   The installers must use the resources available, such as billing,
account information and installation and maintenance record, in good faith to
make such identification, and must relate such information to users or other
responsible parties, and the Department in reasonable fashion.
   (F)   Excluding those described in divisions (B), (C) and (D) above, if the
existing non-use devices cannot be reasonably identified by and/or with a
particular installer as described in division (D) above, the users or other
responsible parties of the properties must remove them at their own cost and
expenses no later than January 1, 2015.
(CBC 1985 16-58.5; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.6   Unified Statement.
   (A)   The OTARD user, other responsible parties and installer must file or
notify the Department in unified statement for activities outlined in
Subsections 16-58.3,16-58.4 and 16-58.5.
   (B)   The copies of signed unified statements for installation, maintenance
and removal must be provided to the OTARD users, the other responsible parties
and the Department. The OTARD installer must maintain a record of such
statement at its Office with regular business no less than two years after the
effective termination or expiration of use or subscription.
(CBC 1985 16-58.6; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-58.7   Appropriate City Authority.
   (A)   The Department will assume primary jurisdiction to ensure, among
others, legitimate safety objectives in association with installation, use,
maintenance and removal of the OTARD devices. The Department shall promulgate
rules and regulations if necessary to implement the provisions of this Section.
   (B)   Non-compliance with Subsections 16-58.3 and 16-58.5 may constitute
violations of applicable commonwealth and city building regulations and
requirements, and result in applicable enforcement actions.
(CBC 1985 16-58.7; Ord. 2012 c. 3)
16-59   PROHIBITION OF THE POSSESSION OR SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS AND
ILLICIT SYNTHETIC DRUGS.
16-59.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and safety of
the residents of Boston from the dangers and ill effects of synthetic
cannabinoids (commonly known as “Spice” or “K2”), and other synthetic drugs.
Without the prohibitions enacted by this chapter, these synthetic drugs can be
possessed by individuals without the city’s ability to control the negative
effects to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of Boston. These
negative effects include, but are not limited to, psychoactive behavior and
reactions, serious injury and death caused by its consumption.
(CBC 1985 16-59.1; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 1)
16-59.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, or his or
her designee.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
wholesaler, retailer and any license or unlicensed business, including clerk,
manager or owner of business.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS. Any chemical compound chemically synthesized and
either:
      (1)   Has been demonstrated to have binding activity at one or more
cannabinoid receptors; or
      (2)   Is a chemical analog or isomer of a compound that has been
demonstrated to have binding activity at one or more cannabinoid receptors.
Includes, but is not limited to: HU-210; HU-211/dexanabinol; JWH-018; JWH-073;
JWH-081; JWH-200; JWH-250; CP 47,497; and homologues.
(CBC 1985 16-59.2; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 2)
16-59.3   Prohibition of Synthetic Cannabinoids.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, provide, sell, barter,
produce, manufacture, distribute or to offer, display, market or advertise for
sale, or purchase with the intent to provide, sell, barter, produce,
manufacture or distribute, or to offer, display, market or advertise for sale
any synthetic cannabinoid as defined in the provisions of this chapter.
(CBC 1985 16-59.3; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 3)
16-59.4   Enforcement.
   The Commissioner, or designee, shall have the authority to implement and
enforce the provisions of these Sections. The Commissioner, or designee, shall
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement the provisions of these
Sections, pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A.
(CBC 1985 16-59.4; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 4)
16-59.5   Penalty.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this Section will be assessed a
fine of $300. Each incident of a violation will constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under this Section, if any of the
aforementioned substances or combination thereof listed under the provisions of
these Sections are found in the possession of any person, the substances will
be forfeited by seizure by the Officers of the Boston Police Department, or
other Law Enforcement Officers, and may be destroyed by such law enforcement
officials in a method consistent with law.
   (C)   The provisions of these Sections may be enforced in accordance with
the non-criminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D;
provided that this Section shall not preclude the city from proceeding to
restrain a violation by injunction.
(CBC 1985 16-59.5; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 5)
16.59.6   Severability
   If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdictions, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 16-59.6; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 6)
16-59.7   Effective Date.
   The provisions of these Sections shall be effective immediately upon
passage.
(CBC 1985 16-59.7; Ord. 2015 c. 6 § 7)
16-60   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
16-60.1   Recreational Vehicles.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORIZED CONVEYANCE. Any wheel device used to carry persons or property
which is powered by any means other than muscular power alone.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed or modified for use over
unimproved terrain for recreation or pleasure including, but not limited to,
all-terrain vehicles, off-highway motorcycles, dirt bikes and recreation
utility vehicles.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle registration. Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 90B,
Section 22, no recreational vehicle, as defined by M.G.L. Chapter 90B, Section
20 as “recreation vehicle”, may be operated unless it is registered with the
Boat, Recreation Vehicle and Snowmobile Registration Bureau and a valid
registration number is displayed on the vehicle.
   (C)   Unregistered vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall place, store or keep more than one unregistered
motorized conveyance that, in order to be operated, is required to be
registered under the laws or regulations of the commonwealth, including, but
not limited to, M.G.L. Chapter 90B, upon public or private land zoned for
residential purposes of six or fewer residential units.
      (2)   This Section shall not apply to vehicles stored within a fully-
enclosed building or to vehicles stored, parked or displayed on property duly
licensed in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 140, Sections 57 through 69.
   (D)   Property of another. No person shall operate, maintain or possess a
recreational vehicle upon the property of another without written permission of
the land owner on their person.
   (E)   Hazardous operation. No person shall engage in trick or stunt riding
upon any public space in the city upon any motorized conveyance, including
recreational vehicles.
      (1)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not cause such vehicle to ride with its front wheel or wheels
raise from the surface of the road or ground while operated in any public
space.
      (2)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not cause such vehicle to ride with its rear wheels raised from
the surface of the road or ground while operated in any public space.
      (3)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not cause any side wheels of such vehicle to raise from the
surface of the road or ground while operated in any public space.
      (4)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not ride such vehicles with his or her feet or knees planted on
the seat while operating in any public space.
      (5)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not operate such vehicle in a manner commonly associated with
trick or stunt riding.
      (6)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not operate such vehicle with a passenger if designed for a
single rider.
      (7)   No passenger shall ride upon any motorized conveyance, including a
recreational vehicle, that is designed for a single rider.
      (8)   An operator of any motorized conveyance, including a recreational
vehicle, shall not operate such vehicle with a passenger sitting or riding upon
the handle bars or forward of the operator.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of Boston Code 16-60.1 shall be subject to a
fine of $250 for the first violation and for a second or subsequent offense, by
a fine of $300.
   (G)   Enforcement and regulatory authority. The Commissioner of the Boston
Police Department shall have the authority to enforce these Sections and to
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these
Sections. Additionally, the Commissioners of the Inspectional Services
Department, the Public Works Department and the Boston Transportation
Department shall also have authority to enforce divisions (C) and (D) above.
The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce this
Section. The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to impound any
vehicle in violation of these Sections. The Boston Police Department shall have
the authority to enter upon and pass through or over private lands and property
whether or not covered by water, to enforce this Code.
   (H)   Applicability. If any provision of these Sections imposes greater
restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law,
special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, order or policy, then the provisions
of these Sections shall control.
   (I)   Severability. If any provision of these Sections shall be held to be
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be
considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall
remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-60.1; Ord. 2015 c. 8 § 1)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2015 c. 8 designated this Section as 16-59; however an earlier
ordinance, Ord. 2015 c. 6, created a new Section on synthetic cannabinoids
which was designated 16-59. Therefore, Ord. 2015 c. 8 has been designated
Section 16-60.
16-61   REGULATION OF LETTER GRADING OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND FOOD TRUCKS.
16-61.1   Purpose.
   This Section is applicable to the Boston Inspectional Services Department
letter grading system of health inspections of food establishments and food
trucks within the city.
(CBC 1985 16-61.1; Ord. 2016 c. 14 § 1)
16-61.2   Definition.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LETTER GRADE. An Inspectional Services Department Health Division issued
designation to display a letter grade corresponding to a food establishments’
and/or food trucks’ health inspection.
(CBC 1985 16-61.2; Ord. 2016 c. 14 § 1)
16-61.3   Requirements.
   (A)   A person operating a food establishment or food truck and subject to
food code health inspections pursuant to the F.D.A. 2013 Food Code 8-1 through
8-5 and as adopted by reference in 105 CMR 590 must post its Inspectional
Services Department issued letter grade immediately after receipt,
unobstructed, at eye-level, facing outward on an exterior-facing wall or window
within 5 feet of the main entrance in the interior of the restaurant.
   (B)   During the first year of implementation and passage of this Section,
the health inspection grade will be optional to be posted in the food
establishment or food truck. The letter grade shall be available on the city’s
Mayor’s Food Court website.
(CBC 1985 16-61.3; Ord. 2016 c. 14 § 1)
16-61.4   Enforcement and Penalty.
   A person or entity operating a food establishment or food truck that fails
to post the letter grade designation or alters the designation shall be
punished by a fine of $300 for each offense. Each day shall constitute a new
offense.
(CBC 1985 16-61.4; Ord. 2016 c. 14 § 1)
16-61.5   Appeal.
   A person aggrieved by the requirements of this Section may seek an
administrative appeal to the Inspectional Services Department. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision under this Section by the Inspectional Services
Department, may seek relief in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided
by the laws of the commonwealth.
(CBC 1985 16-61.5; Ord. 2016 c. 14 § 1)
16-62   ORDINANCE BANNING FACE SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY IN BOSTON.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOSTON. Any Department, Agency, Bureau and/or subordinate division of the
city.
      BOSTON OFFICIAL. Any person or entity acting on behalf of the city,
including any officer, employee, agent, contractor, subcontractor or vendor.
      FACE SURVEILLANCE. An automated or semi-automated process that assists in
identifying or verifying an individual, or in capturing information about an
individual, based on the physical characteristics of an individual’s face.
      FACE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM. Any computer software or application that
performs face surveillance.
   (B)   Ban on city use of face surveillance.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for Boston or any Boston official to:
         (a)   Obtain, retain, possess, access or use:
            1.   Any face surveillance system; or
            2.   Information derived from a face surveillance system.
         (b)   Enter into an agreement with any third party for the purpose of
obtaining, retaining, possessing, accessing or using, by or on behalf of Boston
or any Boston official any face surveillance system; or
         (c)   Issue any permit or enter into any other agreement that
authorizes any third party, on behalf of Boston or any Boston official, to
obtain, retain, possess, access or use:
            1.   Any face surveillance system; or
            2.   Information derived from a face surveillance system.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) shall prohibit Boston or any Boston
official from:
         (a)   Using evidence relating to the investigation of a specific crime
that may have been generated from a face surveillance system, so long as such
evidence was not generated by or at the request of Boston or any Boston
official;
         (b)   Obtaining or possessing:
            1.   An electronic device, such as a cell phone or computer, for
evidentiary purposes; or
            2.   An electronic device, such as a cell phone or tablet, that
performs face surveillance for the sole purpose of user authentication.
         (c)   Using face recognition on an electronic device, such as a cell
phone or tablet, owned by Boston or by any Boston official, for the sole
purpose of user authentication;
         (d)   Using social media or communications software or applications
for communicating with the public; provided such use does not include the
affirmative use of any face surveillance;
         (e)   Using automated redaction software; provided such software does
not have the capability of performing face surveillance; or
         (f)   Complying with the National Child Search Assistance Act of 1990,
being 34 U.S.C. §§ 41307 et seq.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Face surveillance data collected or derived in violation of this
Section shall be considered unlawfully obtained and shall be deleted upon
discovery, subject to applicable law.
      (2)   No data collected or derived from any use of face surveillance in
violation of this Section and no evidence derived therefrom may be received in
evidence in any proceeding in or before any Department, Officer, Agency,
regulatory body, legislative committee or authority subject to the jurisdiction
of the city.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section constitutes an injury and any person
may institute proceedings for injunctive relief, declaratory relief or writ of
mandate in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce this Section. A court
shall award costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees to a plaintiff who is the
prevailing party in such proceedings. An action instituted under this division
(C)(3) shall be brought against the respective City Department, and the city
and, if necessary to effectuate compliance with this Section, any other
governmental Agency with possession, custody or control of data subject to this
Section.
      (4)   Violations of this Section by a city employee shall result in
consequences that may include retraining, suspension or termination, subject to
due process requirements and provisions of collective bargaining agreements.
      (5)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit any
individual’s rights under commonwealth or federal law.
   (D)   Severability.
      (1)   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
   (E)   Effective date. The provisions of this Section shall be effective
immediately upon passage.
(CBC 1985 16-62; Ord. 2020 c. 2)
16-63   ORDINANCE ON SURVEILLANCE OVERSIGHT AND INFORMATION SHARING
16-63.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to provide accountability, transparency and
oversight regarding the acquisition and use of surveillance technology and
surveillance data by the city and its Agencies and Officers, and to protect
privacy, civil rights and racial and immigrant justice while allowing for
appropriate use to assist in the charge of improving delivery of services and
public safety.
(CBC 1985 16-63.1; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL SURVEILLANCE REPORT. A written report submitted by the Mayor’s Office
on an annual basis concerning specific surveillance technology used during the
previous year and containing the information set forth in this Section by the
following City Departments and Agencies: the Boston Police Department, the
Boston Parks Department Park Rangers, Boston Public Schools, Boston Public
Health Commission, Boston Housing Authority, Boston Municipal Protection
Services and the Office of Emergency Management.
   BPD. The Boston Police Department.
   BPS. The Boston Public Schools.
   BPS PERSONNEL. Any employee or Agent of the Boston Public Schools, excluding
School Safety Specialists.
   EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES. The Police Commissioner, the Police Commissioner’s
designee, the head of BHA’s Police or the head of the BPHC Police’s good faith
and reasonable belief that an emergency involving danger of death, physical
injury or significant property damage or loss, similar to those that would
render it impracticable to obtain a warrant, requires the use of the
surveillance technology or the surveillance data it provides. The use of
surveillance technology in EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES shall not infringe upon an
individual’s right to peacefully protest or exercise other lawful and protected
constitutional rights.
   HISTORIC STUDENT REPORTS. Student reports that they have created or produced
prior to the effective date of this Section.
   IDENTIFIABLE INDIVIDUAL. An individual whose identity can be revealed by
data, including surveillance data, or revealed by data when it is analyzed and/
or combined with any other type of record.
   SCHOOL SAFETY SPECIALISTS. Any officials or employees that belong to the
Boston Public Schools Department of Safety Services or any other security and
enforcement personnel, and that may or may not be licensed by the Boston Police
Department as special Police Officers.
   SERIOUS BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that results in permanent disfigurement,
loss or impairment of a bodily function, limb or organ, or substantial risk of
death.
   STUDENT REPORT. A written record that is not an educational record protected
under FERPA and that is created by School Safety Specialists or by BPS
personnel and that pertains to a student. STUDENT REPORTS include but are not
limited to School Safety Reports, BPD Form 1.1 Incident Reports, Field
Interrogation and Observation Reports, Intelligence Reports and Face Sheets.
STUDENT REPORTS also include informal emails, texts and other electronic
messages that describe or contain details pertaining to student activity.
   SURVEILLANCE. The act of observing or analyzing the movements, behavior or
actions of Identifiable Individuals.
   SURVEILLANCE DATA. Any electronic data collected, captured, recorded,
retained, processed, intercepted or analyzed by surveillance technology
acquired by the city or operated at the direction of the city.
   SURVEILLANCE OVERSIGHT ADVISORY BOARD. A group comprised of five
individuals, one representative to be chosen by each of the following: the
president of the Boston City Council, the commonwealth’s American Civil
Liberties Union and the Boston Police Commissioner; and two representatives
chosen by the Mayor, at least one of whom shall be an academic representative
with expertise in technology and public policy issues. The Board shall serve as
an advisory body to host further discussion and provide recommendations on
surveillance issues to the Mayor.
   SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY. Any device, hardware or software that is capable of
collecting, capturing, recording, retaining, processing, intercepting,
analyzing, monitoring or sharing audio, visual, digital, location, thermal,
biometric, associational or similar information specifically associated with,
or capable of being associated with, any identifiable individual or group; or
any system, device or vehicle that is equipped with an electronic surveillance
device, hardware or software. Examples of SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   International mobile subscriber identity (“IMSI”) catchers and
other cell-site simulators;
      (2)   Automatic license plate readers;
      (3)   Electronic toll readers;
      (4)   Closed-circuit television cameras except as otherwise provided
herein;
      (5)   Biometric surveillance technology, including facial, voice, iris
and gait-recognition software and databases;
      (6)   Mobile DNA capture technology;
      (7)   Gunshot detection and location hardware and services;
      (8)   X-ray vans;
      (9)   Video and audio monitoring and/or recording technology, such as
surveillance cameras;
      (10)   Surveillance enabled or capable light bulbs or light fixtures;
      (11)   Tools, including software and hardware, used to gain unauthorized
access to a computer, computer service or computer network;
      (12)   Social media monitoring software;
      (13)   Through-the-wall radar or similar imaging technology;
      (14)   Passive scanners of radio networks;
      (15)   Long-range Bluetooth and other wireless-scanning devices;
      (16)   Thermal imaging or “forward-looking infrared” devices or cameras;
      (17)   Electronic database systems containing surveillance data about
identifiable individuals;
      (18)   Radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) scanners; and
      (19)   Software designed to integrate or analyze data from Surveillance
Technology, including surveillance target tracking and predictive policing
software.
   SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY IMPACT REPORT. A written report submitted by the
Mayor’s Office with a request for approval of acquisition or use of
surveillance technology, and which includes, at a minimum, the requirements set
forth in this Section.
   SURVEILLANCE USE POLICY. A policy for the city’s use of surveillance
technology, approved by the Corporation Counsel and the Mayor’s Office, and
submitted by the Mayor’s Office to and approved by the Boston City Council. The
SURVEILLANCE USE POLICY shall at a minimum satisfy the requirements set forth
in this Section.
   TECHNOLOGY-SPECIFIC SURVEILLANCE USE POLICY. A policy governing the city’s
use of a specific surveillance technology not already covered under the City’s
Surveillance Use Policy, approved by the Corporation Counsel and the Mayor, and
submitted by the Mayor to the Boston City Council with a Surveillance
Technology Impact Report under this Section.
(CBC 1985 16-63.2; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.3   Community Control Over Surveillance.
   (A)   Applicability. 
      (1)   This Section shall apply to the following City Departments and
Agencies: the Boston Police Department, Boston Public Schools, Boston Public
Health Commission, the Boston Parks Department Park Rangers, Boston Housing
Authority, Boston Municipal Protection Services and the Office of Emergency
Management.
      (2)   For the purpose of this Section, the word CITY shall mean the City
Departments and Agencies listed above.
   (B)   Exceptions and exemptions. The following situations are exceptions and
exemptions from this Section.
      (1)   The following do not constitute Surveillance Data and are exempted
from the requirements of this Section:
         (a)   Surveillance Data acquired where the individual knowingly and
voluntarily consented to provide the information, such as submitting personal
information for the receipt of city services; and
         (b)   Surveillance Data acquired where the individual was presented
with a clear and conspicuous opportunity to opt-out of providing the
information.
      (2)   Surveillance Technology does not include the following devices,
software or hardware, which are exempt from the requirements of this Section,
unless the devices, hardware or software are modified to include additional
surveillance capabilities:
         (a)   Routine office hardware, such as televisions, computers and
printers, that are in widespread public use and will not be used for any
surveillance or surveillance-related functions;
         (b)   Parking ticket devices (“PTDs”) and related databases;
         (c)   Manually-operated, non-wearable, handheld digital cameras, audio
recorders and video recorders that are not designed to be used surreptitiously,
that are used for non-law enforcement and non-investigatory purposes and whose
functionality is used for manually capturing and manually downloading video
and/or audio recordings;
         (d)   Cameras installed in or on a Police vehicle;
         (e)   Cameras installed pursuant to commonwealth law authorization in
or on any vehicle or along a public right-of-way solely to record traffic
violations or traffic patterns; provided that the surveillance data gathered is
used only for that purpose;
         (f)   Surveillance devices that cannot record or transmit audio or
video or be remotely accessed, such as image stabilizing binoculars or night
vision goggles;
         (g)   City databases that do not and will not contain any surveillance
data or other information collected, captured, recorded, retained, processed,
intercepted or analyzed by surveillance technology;
         (h)   Manually-operated technological devices that are used primarily
for internal city communications and are not designed to surreptitiously
collect surveillance data, such as radios and email systems;
         (i)   Parking access and revenue control systems, including proximity
card readers and transponder readers at city owned or controlled parking
garages;
         (j)   Card readers and key fobs used by city employees and other
authorized persons for access to city owned or controlled buildings and
property;
         (k)   Cameras installed on city property solely for security purposes,
including closed-circuit television cameras installed by the city, to monitor
entryways and outdoor areas of city owned or controlled buildings and property
for the purpose of controlling access, maintaining the safety of city employees
and visitors to city buildings and protecting city property;
         (l)   Security cameras including closed-circuit television cameras
installed by the city to monitor cashiers’ windows and other cash-handling
operations and to maintain the safety of city employees and visitors to such
areas;
         (m)   Cameras installed solely to protect the physical integrity of
city infrastructure;
         (n)   Technology that monitors only city employees in response to
complaints of wrongdoing or in order to prevent waste, fraud or abuse of city
resources;
         (o)   Devices exclusively capable of detecting radiation;
         (p)   Radio-frequency identification scanners (“RFIDs”) used for
disaster patient tracking by the Boston Public Health Commission; and
         (q)   BPHC technology used to track BPHC owned or leased equipment and
vehicles.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, BPD, BHA Police or
BPHC Police may temporarily acquire or temporarily use surveillance technology
in exigent circumstances for a period not to exceed 30 days without following
the provisions of this chapter before that acquisition or use. However, if
these bodies acquire or use surveillance technology in exigent circumstances
under this Section, the BPD Commissioner, BHA Head of Police or BPHC Head of
Police must:
         (a)   Report that acquisition or use to the Boston City Council in
writing within 30 days following the end of those exigent circumstances;
         (b)   Submit a surveillance technology impact report, and, if
necessary, a technology-specific Surveillance Use Policy to the Boston City
Council regarding that surveillance technology within 30 days following the end
of those exigent circumstances;
         (c)   Include that surveillance technology in the Department or
Agency’s next annual surveillance report to the Boston City Council following
the end of those exigent circumstances;
         (d)   If the Department or Agency is unable to meet the 30-day
timeline to submit a Surveillance Technology Impact Report and, if necessary, a
technology-specific Surveillance Use Policy to the Boston City Council, the
Department or Agency must notify the Boston City Council in writing requesting
to extend this period. The Boston City Council may grant extensions beyond the
original 30-day timeline to submit a surveillance technology impact report,
and, if necessary, a technology-specific Surveillance Use Policy;
         (e)   Any surveillance technology impact report, and, if necessary,
any Technology-Specific Surveillance Use Policy submitted to the Boston City
Council under this Subsection shall be made publicly available on the city’s
website upon submission to the Boston City Council; and
         (f)   Any surveillance technology impact report and, if necessary,
technology-specific Surveillance Use Policy submitted to the Boston City
Council under this Section may be redacted to the extent required to comply
with an order by a court of competent jurisdiction, or to exclude information
that, in the reasonable discretion of the Commissioner of Police, if disclosed,
would materially jeopardize an ongoing investigation or otherwise represent a
significant risk to public safety and security provided, however, that any
information redacted pursuant to this division (B)(3)(f) will be released in
the next annual surveillance report following the point at which the reason for
such redaction no longer exists.
      (4)   A City Department head may apply a technical patch or upgrade that
is necessary to mitigate threats to the city’s environment. The Department
shall not use the new surveillance capabilities of the technology until the
requirements of this Section are met, unless the Mayor, or their designee,
determines that the use is unavoidable; in that case, the Mayor shall request
Boston City Council approval as soon as possible. The request shall include a
report to the Boston City Council of how the altered surveillance capabilities
were used since the time of the upgrade. If the Boston City Council does not
approve the use of the proposed new surveillance capabilities, the request
shall be sent to the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board who will make
recommendations to the Mayor. Subsequent to receiving the recommendations from
the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board, the Mayor may at their discretion
resubmit a modified request to the Boston City Council for approval.
   (C)   Surveillance Use Policy.
      (1)   The Mayor shall submit to the Boston City Council for its review
and approval a proposed Surveillance Use Policy applicable to each applicable
City Department that possesses or uses surveillance technology before the
effective date of this Section. If the Boston City Council does not approve the
use of the proposed new surveillance capabilities, the request shall be sent to
the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board who will make recommendations to the
Mayor. Subsequent to receiving the recommendations from the Surveillance
Oversight Advisory Board, the Mayor may, at his or her discretion, resubmit a
modified request to the Boston City Council for approval. Notwithstanding the
previous sentences, in municipal year 2022, the Boston City Council shall
approve and review the surveillance use policy no later than December 14, 2022
before such policy is sent to the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board.
      (2)   Any Surveillance Use Policy submitted under this Section shall be
made publicly available upon submission to the Boston City Council.
      (3)   A Surveillance Use Policy shall, at a minimum, specify the
following:
         (a)   Purpose. The specific purpose(s) for the surveillance
technology;
         (b)   Authorized use. The uses that are authorized, the rules and
processes required before that use, and the uses that are prohibited;
         (c)   Data collection. The surveillance data that can be collected by
the surveillance technology;
         (d)   Data access. The individuals who can access or use the collected
surveillance data, and the rules and processes required before access or use of
the information;
         (e)   Data protection. The safeguards that protect information from
unauthorized access, including, but not limited to, encryption, access- control
and access-oversight mechanisms;
         (f)   Data retention. The time period, if any, for which information
collected by the surveillance technology will be routinely retained, the reason
that retention period is appropriate to further the purpose(s), the process by
which the information is regularly deleted after that period has elapsed and
the conditions that must be met to retain information beyond that period;
         (g)   Public access. If and how collected surveillance data can be
accessed by members of the public, including criminal defendants;
         (h)   Information and data-sharing. If and how other city or non-city
entities can access or use the surveillance data, how information is shared
among City Agencies or between City Agencies and non-city entities and
organizations, including any required justification and legal standard
necessary to do so, and any obligation(s) imposed on the recipient of the
surveillance data;
         (i)   Training. The training, if any, required for any individual
authorized to use the surveillance data or technology or to access information
collected by the surveillance technology, including whether there are training
materials;
         (j)   Oversight. The mechanisms to ensure that the Surveillance Use
Policy is followed, including, but not limited to, identifying personnel
assigned to ensure compliance with the policy, internal record keeping of the
use of the technology or access to information collected by the surveillance
technology, audit requirements or procedures, technical measures to monitor for
misuse, any independent person or entity with oversight authority and the
sanctions for violations of the policy;
         (k)   Legal authority. The statutes, regulations or legal precedents,
if any, that control the collection, capturing, recording, retaining,
processing, interception, analysis, release or disclosure of surveillance data
and technology; and
         (l)   Child rights. Special considerations specific to surveillance
technology and surveillance data pertaining to minor children.
      (4)   The Boston City Council shall vote to approve or deny the
Surveillance Use Policy by a vote of a simple majority within 60 days of
submission. If the Boston City Council does not approve the Surveillance Use
Policy, the Policy shall be sent to the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board
who will make recommendations of improvement to the Mayor. Subsequent to
receiving the recommendations from the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board,
the Mayor may at their discretion resubmit a modified request to the Boston
City Council for approval.
   (D)   Surveillance technology impact report and Technology-Specific
Surveillance Use Policy.
      (1)   (a)   The Mayor’s Office must seek and obtain approval from the
Boston City Council as set forth in this Section prior to the city acquiring,
using or entering into an agreement to acquire, share or otherwise use,
unapproved surveillance technology or surveillance data as defined in this
Section.
         (b)   The city may seek, but not accept, funds for surveillance
technology without approval from the Boston City Council; provided that the
city shall notify the Boston City Council of the funding application at the
time it is submitted, and include in this notification the deadline of the
funding opportunity and details regarding the nature of the surveillance
technology for which funding is sought. If the Boston City Council declines to
accept funds for surveillance technology, the request to accept the funds shall
be sent to the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board who will make
recommendations to the Mayor. Subsequent to receiving the recommendations from
the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board, the Mayor may at their discretion
resubmit a modified request to the Boston City Council for approval.
      (2)   Acquisition of surveillance technology by applicable City
Departments. Unless exempted or excepted from the requirements of this Section,
any applicable City Department intending to acquire new surveillance technology
or surveillance data, including, but not limited to, procuring that
surveillance technology without the exchange of monies or other consideration,
or use surveillance technology or surveillance data for a purpose or in a
manner not previously approved, shall, prior to acquisition or use, obtain
Council approval of the acquisition or use. The process for obtaining approval
shall be as follows.
         (a)   The City Department shall submit a surveillance technology
impact report, and, if necessary, a Technology-Specific Surveillance Use
Policy, as described below, to the Mayor’s Office for review and approval.
         (b)   If the request is approved by the Mayor’s Office, the Mayor’s
Office shall submit the request, including copies of the City Department’s
surveillance technology impact report and, if applicable, Technology-Specific
Surveillance Use Policy, to the Boston City Council for review.
         (c)   The Boston City Council shall have 60 days from the date of
submission to approve or deny a request by majority vote for the acquisition or
use of surveillance technology. If the Boston City Council does not approve the
acquisition or use of surveillance technology, the request shall be sent to the
Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board who will make recommendations to the
Mayor. Subsequent to receiving the recommendations from the Surveillance
Oversight Advisory Board, the Mayor may, at his or her discretion resubmit a
modified request to the Boston City Council for approval.
         (d)   A surveillance technology impact report submitted shall include
all of the following:
         (e)   Information describing the surveillance technology and how it
works;
         (f)   Information on the proposed purpose(s) for the surveillance
technology;
         (g)   Information describing the kind of surveillance the surveillance
technology will conduct and what surveillance data will be gathered, including
a detailed accounting of which entities may have access to any surveillance
data, under what circumstances (e.g., ongoing automated access, subject to an
informal request, subject to subpoena, subject to a warrant and the like);
         (h)   The location(s) the surveillance technology may be deployed and
when;
         (i)   A description of the privacy and anonymity rights affected and a
mitigation plan describing how the Department’s use of the equipment will be
regulated to protect privacy and anonymity, and to limit the risk of abuse;
         (j)   The potential impact(s) on privacy in the city; the potential
impact on the civil rights and liberties of any individuals, communities or
groups, including, but not limited to, communities of color or other
marginalized communities in the city; and a description of a plan to address
these impact(s);
         (k)   An estimate of the fiscal costs for the surveillance technology,
including initial purchase, personnel and other ongoing costs and any current
or potential sources of funding; and
         (l)   An explanation of how the Surveillance Use Policy will apply to
this surveillance technology and, if it is not sufficiently applicable, a
Technology-Specific Surveillance Use Policy.
      (3)   A Technology-Specific Surveillance Use Policy shall be required if
the purpose, authorized use, data collection, data access, data protection,
data retention, public access, third-party data sharing, training or oversight
of the requested surveillance technology differ from the standards in the
Surveillance Use Policy submitted under division (C) above and this division
(D).
         (a)   A Technology-Specific Surveillance Use Policy shall not conflict
with any provision of the city’s Surveillance Use Policy.
         (b)   To the extent a conflict arises between the provisions of the
City’s Surveillance Use Policy and a Technology-Specific Surveillance Use
Policy, the city’s Surveillance Use Policy shall govern. A Technology-Specific
Surveillance Use Policy shall include all of the elements of the Surveillance
Use Policy as outlined in division (B) above.
      (4)   Any surveillance technology impact report, and, if necessary,
Technology-Specific Surveillance Use Policy submitted to the Boston City
Council under division (C) above and this division (D) shall be made publicly
available on the city’s website upon submission to the Council.
(CBC 1985 16-63.3; Ord. 2021 c. 14; Ord. 2022 c. 7)
16-63.4   Boston Public Schools and Boston Police Department Information-
Sharing Policy.
   (A)   School Safety Specialists shall not collect, store or share
information pertaining to students except by creating and sharing student
reports in accordance with this Section.
      (1)   Student reports shall only be created when:
         (a)   Serious bodily harm to an individual has occurred as a result of
willful conduct by a student;
         (b)   A credible threat to the safety of the school arises that would
amount to criminal conduct;
         (c)   A student is in possession of firearms as defined in M.G.L.
Chapter 269, Section 10(j), ammunition, or a dangerous weapon as described in
M.G.L. Chapter 269, Section 10(b); or
         (d)   A student unlawfully possesses or uses controlled substances;
provided those substances are not marijuana, nicotine or alcohol, and further
provided, however, that School Safety Specialists may collect, store and share
information pertaining to unlawful distribution of alcohol or marijuana when a
student has unlawfully distributed marijuana or alcohol on school grounds in
excess of the following amounts: 30 grams for marijuana and one liter for
alcohol.
      (2)   School Safety Specialists may not create a student report relating
to matters that are not described above.
      (3)   Student reports shall not contain information pertaining to:
         (a)   Immigration status;
         (b)   Citizenship;
         (c)   Address and/or neighborhood of residence;
         (d)   Religion;
         (e)   National origin;
         (f)   Students’ native or spoken language;
         (g)   Suspected, alleged or confirmed gang involvement, affiliation,
association or membership;
         (h)   Participation in school activities, extracurricular activities
outside of school, sports teams or school clubs or organizations;
         (i)   Degrees, honors or awards; or
         (j)   Post-high school plans.
      (4)   (a)   Before creating the student report, the School Safety
Specialists must discuss the writing of the report with the principal(s) or
head(s) of school of:
            1.   The school(s) where the subject(s) of the report is/are
enrolled; and
            2.   The school where the School Safety Specialists writing the
report is assigned to work.
         (b)   The required principals or heads of school must document in
writing that the incident at hand merits a report under the criteria in this
division (A).
      (5)   Principals and heads of school of the school(s) where the subject
(s) of the report is/are enrolled and the school where the School Safety
Specialists writing the report is assigned to work must receive copies of all
student reports written under this Section immediately upon writing.
         (a)   Within 24 hours of the writing of a student report under this
Section, the relevant principals and/or heads of school must provide a copy of
the report, with any necessary redactions to protect student privacy, to every
student referenced by name in the report, as well as to those students’
families. Reports which involve allegations of parental/ household abuse may
also be withheld from students’ families if disclosure of the report is not in
the best interest of the student. In cases of allegations of parental/household
abuse, a copy of the report shall be provided to the student or a trusted adult
of their choosing.
   (B)   Rules for student information sharing. School Safety Specialists and
BPS personnel shall not transmit to or share with BPD or any other outside
entities any information about students, including, but not limited to, Student
Reports, through any official or unofficial channels, including, but not
limited to, text, phone, email, database and in-person communication, except if
the transmission or sharing is done:
      (1)   Pursuant to division (C) below; or
      (2)   In exigent circumstances pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Transmitting information to the BPD and other entities outside the
Boston Public Schools.
      (1)   BPS personnel and School Safety Specialists may not send
information relating to Boston Public Schools students to the Boston Regional
Intelligence Center (“BRIC”), Federal Immigration Authorities, Federal Law
Enforcement Agencies or any law enforcement fusion center under any
circumstances, except where required by commonwealth or federal law.
      (2)   BPS personnel may not transmit to the BPD any student information,
including, but not limited to, a student report, unless in response to a
judicial warrant issued upon a finding of probable cause, as required under
M.G.L. Chapter 269, Section 10(j) and M.G.L. Chapter 71, Section 37L, or as
otherwise required by commonwealth or federal law. Nothing in this Section
shall limit the ability of Boston Public Schools to release information as
required by commonwealth or federal laws and regulations.
      (3)   Before BPS personnel or a School Safety Specialist transmits a
student report created pursuant to division (A) above or any other information
relating to a student to BPD or to any other entity outside of the Boston
Public Schools in accordance with divisions (C)(1) and (2) above, the following
must take place.
         (a)   Any student named in a Student Report or other record, and their
parent or guardian, must be notified in writing that the Student Report they
received pursuant to Section division (A)(5) above will be transmitted to BPD
or to the outside Agency and receive an explanation of why the information
reflected in the report is prompting the communication. All written materials
must be provided in both English and the language spoken by the relevant
student’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   The Boston Public Schools must schedule a meeting with the
student and the student’s parent or guardian as soon as practicable, and an
interpreter of the family’s choosing must be present for any party that
requires one. The interpreter cannot be the student or other individual who is
participating in the meeting in another capacity. If the family does not have a
preferred interpreter, BPS must provide a qualified translator.
         (c)   The Principals and heads of school mentioned in division (A)(5)
above, the Superintendent and the Legal Advisor for the School Department must
review the Student Report and the Legal Advisor for BPS must verify that at
least one of the criteria in division (A)(1) above is present. If the Legal
Advisor finds that the incident did not meet the criteria in division (A)(1)
above, he or she must place a note in the record attesting to this fact, and
the student report may not be transmitted to the BPD or any entity outside of
BPS.
         (d)   The student and family may have an attorney and/or advocate
present at the meeting. At the moment the meeting is scheduled and requested,
BPS must provide the family with a list of available legal services vetted by
the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Advancement.
         (e)   Students and families may amend a student’s record by placing a
note with information relating to any student report in which the student is
named in the student’s file.
   (D)   Transmission of information pursuant to exigent circumstances.
      (1)   Within 12 hours after a School Safety Specialist transmits a
Student Report created pursuant to division (A) above or any other information
relating to a student to the BPD pursuant to the existence of exigent
circumstances: the School Safety Specialists must notify the relevant principal
or head of school that student information was shared with the BPD, and provide
the relevant principal or head of school with a copy of the information shared;
      (2)   Within 24 hours after the conclusion of the exigent circumstance or
within 24 hours after BPS Personnel or a School Safety Specialist transmits a
student report created pursuant to division (A) above or any other information
relating to a student to the BPD pursuant to the existence of exigent
circumstances, the relevant principal or head of school shall:
         (a)   Notify in writing any student whose information or student
report was shared and their parent or guardian that the student information was
shared, and share a copy of the information transmitted and an explanation of
the incident prompting the communication to BPD after the information was
transmitted. All written materials must be provided in both English and the
language spoken by the parent or guardian;
         (b)   The relevant principal or head of school must schedule a meeting
with the student and the student’s parent or guardian as soon as practicable,
and an interpreter/translator of the parent or guardian’s choosing must be
present for any party that requires one. The interpreter/translator cannot be
the student or other individual who is participating in the meeting in another
capacity. If the family does not have a preferred translator, BPS must provide
a qualified translator. The student and parent or guardian may have an attorney
and/or advocate present at the meeting. At the moment the meeting is scheduled
and requested, BPS must provide the family with a list of available legal
services vetted by the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Advancement;
         (c)   If the information shared was a student report, the principals
and/or heads of school mentioned in division (A)(5) above, the Superintendent
and the Legal Advisor for the School Department must review the student report
and the Legal Advisor for BPS must verify that at least one of the criteria in
division (A)(1) above is present. If the Legal Advisor finds that the incident
did not meet the criteria in Section division (A)(1) above, he or she must
place a note in the record attesting to this fact, and the BPD must be notified
to the same within three business hours.
   (E)   Meetings where ICE is present. School Safety Specialists shall not
attend any meetings where Officers or employees from United States Immigrations
and Customs Enforcement are present, either in person or virtually.
   (F)   Transparency and communication. Students, families, school
administrators, teachers and counselors must be made aware of this Section by
including a copy of the ordinance in the Guide to Boston Public Schools.
   (G)   Community Information-Sharing Oversight Board.
      (1)   A Community Oversight Board shall be created to provide oversight
regarding the implementation of this Section.
      (2)   The Board must include at least one representative from each of the
following groups: a student chosen by the Boston Student Advisory Council, a
parent or guardian chosen by the city-wide Parent Council, a parent or guardian
chosen by the Boston Special Education Parent Advisory Council, a
representative chosen by the Code of Conduct Advisory Council, a representative
of the District English Learner Advisory Committee, a teacher chosen by the
Boston Teachers Union, a local immigration advocate chosen by the Student
Immigrant Movement (“SIM”), a civil rights advocate chosen by Lawyers for Civil
Rights and an immigration attorney familiar with the immigration consequences
of criminal proceedings chosen by the Political Asylum/Immigration
Representation Project.
      (3)   The Superintendent shall report monthly to the Board:
         (a)   The number of student reports created, disaggregated by school;
         (b)   The number of student reports shared with any outside entity,
disaggregated by school and receiving entity;
         (c)   The number of student reports reviewed by the Legal Advisor for
the School Department that did not meet the criteria specified in division (A)
(1) above, disaggregated by school, and including the date of each incident, a
description of each incident, the race, ethnicity, gender, age and grade level
of each student who is named in the report, the location of the incident and
whether the report was transmitted to BPD or to any other outside entity; and
         (d)   The number of student reports written under division (A) above,
disaggregated by school, including the date of the incident, a description of
the incident including the justification for the creation of the report per
division (A)(1) above, the type of report, the race, ethnicity, gender, age and
grade of each student who is named in the report, the location of the incident
and whether the report was transmitted to BPD or to any other outside entities.
      (4)   The Board will review the information provided under division (G)
(3) above and may request that School Safety Specialists or District personnel
respond to questions, either in writing or at a public meeting, relating to the
information provided.
      (5)   The Board shall review the information for patterns and compliance
with this Section. It shall issue findings and report such findings to the
Boston City Council and School Committee on a quarterly basis.
   (H)   Accountability and training.
      (1)   All School Safety Specialists and school administrators must
receive training on this policy, and the training will be designed in
collaboration with the Student Immigrant Movement and Boston Teachers Union’s
Unafraid Educators. The training will also be provided by the Central Office
and not by individual schools. Training materials will be made publicly
available.
      (2)   All School Safety Specialists and BPS personnel, including school
administrators, will sign an acknowledgment of responsibility for safeguarding
student information under this Subsection; the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act (“FERPA”), being 20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 C.F.R. Part 99; the
commonwealth’s Student Records Law, being M.G.L. Chapter 71, Sections 34D, 34E,
34G and 34H; and 603 CMR 23 and 603 CMR 49.
      (3)   All new School Safety Specialists will receive training on the
requirements of this Subsection as part of their orientation.
      (4)   All School Safety Specialists must be trained every three years or
at the discretion of the Community Oversight Board.
      (5)   Any transfer of information about students in violation of this
Subsection shall result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including
dismissal, in accordance with the rules of collective bargaining.
      (6)   Should any School Safety Specialist be found to have violated this
policy, the Superintendent will instruct the Chief of Safety Services to
suspend all authorization of School Safety Specialists report submissions to
BPD pending a full investigation of such violation.
   (I)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent or restrict
reporting requirements around sexual assault, sexual abuse and child abuse in
accordance with the M.G.L.
(CBC 1985 16-63.4; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.5   Annual Surveillance Report.
   (A)   (1)   This Section shall apply to the following City Departments and
Agencies: the Boston Police Department, Boston Parks Department Park Rangers,
Boston Public Schools, Boston Public Health Commission, Boston Housing
Authority, Boston Municipal Protection Services and the Office of Emergency
Management.
      (2)   For the purpose of this Section, the word CITY shall mean the City
Departments and Agencies listed above.
   (B)   Within 18 months of the effective date, and annually thereafter, all
applicable City Departments shall submit to the Mayor an Annual Surveillance
Report pertaining to each City Department for which approval for the use of
surveillance technology or surveillance data has been obtained under Subsection
16-63.3(C) and (D). Upon receipt of such reports, the Mayor shall promptly
submit them to the Boston City Council. Any Annual Surveillance Report
submitted under this Section shall be made publicly available on the city’s
website upon submission to the Council.
   (C)   The Annual Surveillance Report submitted pursuant to this Section
shall include all of the following:
      (1)   A description of how surveillance technology has been used,
including whether it captured images, sound or other information regarding
members of the public who are not suspected of engaging in unlawful conduct;
      (2)   Whether and how often data acquired through the use of the
surveillance technology was shared with local, commonwealth and federal; the
name of any recipient entity; the type(s) of data disclosed; any legal standard
(s) under which the information was disclosed; and the justification for the
disclosure;
      (3)   A summary of community complaints or concerns about the
surveillance technology, if any;
      (4)   The results of any internal audits, any information about
violations of the Surveillance Use Policy and any actions taken in response
other than to the extent that such inclusion would violate the privacy rights
of an employee of the city;
      (5)   A detailed accounting of whether the surveillance technology has
been effective at achieving its identified purpose;
      (6)   The number of public records requests received by the city seeking
documents concerning surveillance technologies approved during the previous
year;
      (7)   An estimate of the total annual costs for the surveillance
technology, including personnel and other ongoing costs, and what source(s) of
funding will fund the technology in the coming year, if known;
      (8)   Whether the civil rights and liberties of any communities or
groups, including communities of color or other marginalized communities in the
city are disproportionately impacted by the deployment of the surveillance
technology; and
      (9)   A disclosure of any new agreements made in the past 12 months with
non-city entities that may include acquiring, sharing or otherwise using
surveillance technology or the surveillance data it provides.
   (D)   Based upon information provided in the Annual Surveillance Report, the
Boston City Council shall determine whether the benefits to the applicable,
impacted City Department(s) and the community of the surveillance technology
outweigh the financial and operational costs and whether reasonable safeguards
exist to address reasonable concerns regarding privacy, civil liberties and
civil rights impacted by the deployment of the surveillance technology. If the
benefits or reasonably anticipated benefits do not outweigh the financial and/
or operational costs or civil liberties or civil rights are not reasonably
safeguarded, the Boston City Council may recommend modifications to the
Surveillance Use Policy that are designed to address the Boston City Council’s
concerns to the Mayor for their consideration; withdraw authorization for
continued use of surveillance technology by a majority vote of the Boston City
Council; and/or request a report back from the Mayor regarding steps taken to
address the Boston City Council’s concerns. Should the Council withdraw
authorization for a previously approved surveillance technology, the Mayor may
request that the Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board meet to discuss the
Boston City Council’s concerns and provide recommendations to the Mayor. The
Mayor at their discretion may resubmit a modified request to the Boston City
Council for approval.
   (E)   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Boston City Council from
enacting a separate ordinance to ban or otherwise regulate any surveillance
technology, whether previously approved or not.
   (F)   No later than May 31 of each year, the Boston City Council shall hold
a meeting to discuss the applicable City Departments’ Annual Surveillance
Reports, and shall publicly release a report that includes a summary of all
requests for approval of surveillance technology received by the Boston City
Council during the prior year, including whether the Boston City Council
approved or denied the city’s request for acquisition or use of the
surveillance technology.
(CBC 1985 16-63.5; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.6   Enforcement.
   (A)   Enforcement officials. This Section shall be enforced by the Mayor’s
Office or the Mayor’s designee.
   (B)   Suppression. No data collected or derived from any use of surveillance
technology in violation of this Section and no evidence derived therefrom may
be received in evidence in any proceeding in or before any Department, Officer,
Agency, regulatory body, legislative committee or other authority subject to
the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   Cause of action. Any violation of this Section constitutes an injury
and any person may institute proceedings for injunctive relief, declaratory
relief or writ of mandate in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce
this Section. An action instituted under this division (C) shall be brought
against the city and, if necessary to effectuate compliance with this Section,
any other Governmental Agency with possession, custody or control of data
subject to this Section.
   (D)   Addressing violations. The city will address alleged violations of
this Section in accordance with its usual practices, applicable law and
contractual obligations.
   (E)   Whistleblower protections. Subject to the limitations and requirements
set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 185 (the “Commonwealth Whistleblower
Statute” or “Section 185”) as it may be amended from time to time, any city
employee as defined in Section 185 who reports an alleged violation of this
Section, shall be afforded protections against retaliation if applicable
pursuant to Section 185, as set forth in and subject to the limitations and
requirements of Section 185.
   (F)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit or affect any
individual’s rights under commonwealth or federal laws.
(CBC 1985 16-63.6; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.7   Severability.
   The provisions in this Section are severable. If any part or provision of
this Section, or the application of this Section to any person or circumstance,
is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this
Section shall not be affected by such holding and shall continue to have full
force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-63.7; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.8   Effective Date and Implementation.
   The effective date and implementation of the ordinance shall be as follows.
   (A)   The ordinance shall take effect and be implemented in the manner and
ways described in this Section.
   (B)   The ordinance shall take effect notwithstanding any other provision of
law and shall supersede any prior law and regulation enacted by the city and/or
any agreement entered into by the city or any of its Agencies that are
interpreted to be in conflict with its provisions.
   (C)   Subsections 16-63.1, 16-63.2, 16-63.4, 16-63.6 and 16-63.7 shall take
effect one month after its adoption in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   Every School Safety Specialist shall create a record of historic
student reports.
      (2)   Within four months of the effective date:
         (a)   The historic student reports that do not conform with Subsection
16-63.4(A)(1) shall be destroyed, in both print and electronic form; provided
that such destruction is permitted under the commonwealth law relating to
retention of records;
         (b)   The historic student reports that conform with Subsection 16-
63.4(A)(1) can be retained; provided there is a previous certification by the
BPS Legal Advisor that their creation meets such requirements; and
         (c)   All reports created more than five years ago shall be destroyed.
      (3)   Within six months of the Effective Date, the Head of the School
Safety Specialists and the Legal Advisor must submit a report to the Community
Information-Sharing Oversight Board. Such report must contain:
         (a)   The number of historic student reports, including the format or
file type of the report, description of each incident, disaggregated by race,
ethnicity, gender, age and grade level of each student who is named in the
report;
         (b)   The number of historic student reports retained in accordance
with division (C)(2)(a) above; and
         (c)   The number of historic student reports destroyed in accordance
with divisions (C)(2)(b) and (C)(2)(c) above.
      (4)   No more than one month after receiving such report, the Community
Information-Sharing Oversight Board shall call a public hearing to discuss the
Historic Student Reports. The Head of the School Safety Specialists as well as
individual School Safety Specialists shall be present at such public hearing.
   (D)   Subsections 16-63.3 and 16-63.5 shall take effect nine months after
their adoption.
(CBC 1985 16-63.8; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-63.9   Establishment of a Surveillance, Data and Privacy Working Group.
   (A)   The Working Group shall be tasked with identifying a set of priorities
and implementable objectives to increase the transparency, accountability and
engagement around the public deployment of technology and use of data within
city Departments not covered by this Section.
   (B)   The Working Group will move forward sustainable policies to increase
engagement on the topic of privacy and supply recommendations on professional
development opportunities and training for city staff.
   (C)   The Working Group must produce recommendations for implementation
within one year from the date of adoption to the Mayor and Boston City Council.
   (D)   The Working Group shall comprise a representative from the Mayor’s
Office of New Urban Mechanics, a representative from the Department of
Innovation and Technology, a representative from the Boston City Council to be
chosen by the Boston City Council President, a representative from the
commonwealth’s American Civil Liberties Union, a representative from the
community-at-large to be chosen by SIM and a representative appointed by the
Mayor.
   (E)   The Working Group will dissolve upon the publication of
recommendations to the Mayor and Boston City Council.
   (F)   The Working Group seats shall be filled within one month of this
Section’s passage and the Group shall convene for its first meeting one month
thereafter.
(CBC 1985 16-63.9; Ord. 2021 c. 14)
16-64   AN ORDINANCE REGARDING TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in targeted residential
picketing between the hours of 9:00 p.m and 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Section, targeted residential picketing means
picketing, protesting or demonstrating, with or without signs, that is
specifically directed towards one or more occupants of a particular residence
and which takes place before or about the particular targeted residence. Those
engaged in targeted residential picketing between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. remain subject to all other ordinances and commonwealth statutes,
including, but not limited to, laws concerning excessive noise, disturbing the
peace, harassment and blocking of streets and sidewalks.
   (C)   Any violation of this Section shall be punishable by a fine of $50 for
the first offense in any 12-month period, $150 for the second offense in any
12-month period and $300 for any third and subsequent offense in any 12-month
period. All fines issued under this Section shall be enforced pursuant to the
non-criminal disposition procedures of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D, which
procedures are incorporated herein by reference.
   (D)   This Section shall be enforced by the Boston Police Department. Any
information obtained from enforcement of this Section shall not be included in
any database maintained by the Boston Regional Intelligence Center.
   (E)   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full
force and effect.
(CBC 1985 16-64.1; Ord. 2022 c. 2 § 1)
16-65   SAFE CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION OPERATIONS IN THE CITY.
16-65.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department, or a
designee.
   DEMOLITION. Demolition is the dismantling, razing, destroying of any
building or structure or any part thereof.
   DEPARTMENT. The Inspectional Services Department.
   INSPECTOR OF BUILDINGS. The individual charged with the administration and
enforcement of the commonwealth’s Building Code in accordance with M.G.L.
Chapter 143, Sections 3 and 3A.
   OSHA. The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The Agency
charged with ensuring safe and healthful working conditions for workers by
enforcing workplace safety standards and by providing training, outreach,
education and assistance to private employers.
   OSHA 30-HOUR CERTIFICATION. A comprehensive safety program authorized by the
Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) that trains
workers and employers on recognition, avoidance, abatement and prevention of
safety and health hazards in the workplace.
   SITE SAFETY COORDINATOR. A site safety coordinator is a person with at least
an OSHA 30-hour certification that is designated by the owner, agent,
construction manager or general contractor at all construction projects larger
than 50,000 square feet and all demolition projects for buildings four stories
or larger to perform the duties defined in this Section.
   SITE SAFETY PLAN AFFIDAVIT. A sworn statement on a form determined by the
Department certifying that the permit holder, or his or her designee, has
prepared and will implement a project- specific Site Safety Plan that defines
planned protections from the potential hazards to people on the project site,
the public and property from construction and demolition operations and meets
the applicable requirements defined by the Department. As part of the
AFFIDAVIT, the permit holder, or his or her designee, will attest that their
project will comply with all applicable OSHA health and safety regulations.
   PERMIT. A permit for the construction, alteration or demolition of a
structure issued by the Inspectional Services Department.
   PERMIT HOLDER. An individual or entity that has secured a permit from the
Inspectional Services Department for construction work and is responsible for
the work conducted pursuant to that permit.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.2   Purpose and Scope.
   (A)   The purpose of this Section is to ensure that all construction and
demolition operations in the city are conducted in a manner that protects the
health, welfare, and safety of the general public and to protect public and
private property from any potential dangers that may result from construction
or demolition operations in the city. No provision of this Section requires the
Inspectional Services Department, or any other city entity, to interpret or
enforce any existing OSHA health and safety regulation that governs the safety
of persons employed in construction or demolition operations.
   (B)   This Section applies to all demolition and construction operations in
the city except for those permitted under a homeowner waiver as issued by the
Inspectional Services Department, as it pertains to the safety of the public
and property.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.3   Responsibility for Safety.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to relieve persons engaged in
construction or demolition operations from complying with existing OSHA safety
regulations or other applicable provisions of law, nor is it intended to alter
or diminish any obligation otherwise imposed by law on any party engaged in a
construction or demolition operation, including, but not limited to, the owner,
construction manager, general contractor, sub-contractors, material men,
registered design professionals or other party to engage in sound design and
engineering, safe construction or demolition practices, including, but not
limited to, debris removal, and to act in a reasonable and responsible manner
to maintain a safe construction or demolition site.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.4   Fire Prevention Code.
   In addition to the requirements of this Section, construction or demolition
operations shall also be conducted in conformance with the city’s Fire
Prevention Code.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see § 11-5
16-65.5   Site Safety Plan Affidavit Required.
   Except in instances where a permit is issued with a homeowner waiver, no
permit for the construction, alteration or demolition of any structure subject
to the requirements of this Section shall be issued until a Site Safety Plan
affidavit, on a form as determined by the Department, has been submitted to the
Commissioner or the Inspector of Buildings, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.6   Site Safety Monitoring Plan Required.
   Each permit holder shall enact and maintain a site safety monitoring program
to implement the Site Safety Plan attested to in their affidavit. The Site
Safety Monitoring Program shall, at a minimum, include the following.
   (A)   Site safety orientation and refresher. Each permit holder shall ensure
that each construction or demolition worker employed or otherwise engaged at
such site by the permit holder or performing subcontracted work for or on
behalf of such permit holder receives a site safety orientation and refresher
reviewing the contents of the Site Safety Plan.
      (1)   Site safety orientation. Each worker employed or otherwise engaged
at such site by the permit holder or performing subcontracted work for or on
behalf of such permit holder shall receive a site safety orientation on the
contents of the Site Safety Plan before such worker commences any construction
or demolition work at such site.
      (2)   Site safety refresher. Each worker employed or otherwise engaged at
such site by the permit holder or performing subcontracted work for or on
behalf of such permit holder shall receive a site safety refresher if:
         (a)   Such worker has performed construction or demolition work at
such site for one year or more; and
         (b)   One year or more has elapsed since such worker received a site
safety orientation or refresher with respect to such site.
      (3)   Site safety orientation and refresher content. Site safety
orientations and refreshers required by this Section shall include a review of
safety procedures at such site and any hazardous activities to be performed at
such site. In addition, information pertaining to the site safety training
shall be made available to each worker in a language that he or she
understands.
      (4)   Records. A record of all orientations conducted for the site shall
be maintained by the permit holder and kept at the site. Such record shall
include for each such orientation or refresher:
         (a)   The date and time of such orientation or refresher;
         (b)   The name, title and company affiliations of each worker who
participated; and
         (c)   The name, title and company affiliation of the qualified person
who conducted such orientation or refresher, along with such person’s
signature.
   (B)   Pre-shift safety meetings. Each permit holder shall ensure that each
construction or demolition worker employed or otherwise engaged at such site by
the permit holder or performing subcontracted work for or on behalf of such
permit holder takes part in a safety meeting at the beginning of such worker’s
shift, but before such worker commences any construction or demolition work in
such shift.
      (1)   Pre-shift safety meeting. Pre-shift safety meetings shall be
conducted at the beginning of each worker’s shift, but before such worker
commences any construction or demolition work in such shift, by a person
designated by the permit holder, or where so authorized by the permit holder,
by a person designated by the subcontractor. Such person shall have the ability
to communicate with each worker who takes part in such meeting.
      (2)   Pre-shift safety meeting content. The pre-shift safety meeting
shall include a review of activities and tasks to be performed during the
shift, including specific safety concerns or risks associated with fulfilling
such work.
      (3)   Records. The permit holder shall maintain, for each worker, a
record of one pre-shift safety meeting per week. Such record shall include for
each such meeting:
         (a)   The date and time of each such meeting;
         (b)   The name, title and company affiliation of each worker who
participated; and
         (c)   The name, title and company affiliation of the competent person
who conducted such meeting, along with such person’s signature.
   (C)   Ongoing updates to plans and briefings. As work progresses, the permit
holder will modify their briefings to address current conditions and
expectations. If changed conditions render any attestations on the Site Safety
Plan affidavit inaccurate, then the permit holder shall re-submit an updated
version of his or her Site Safety Plan affidavit.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.7   Site Safety Coordinator Required.
   (A)   Site safety coordinator to be designated. A site safety coordinator
shall be designated by the owner, agent, construction manager or general
contractor at all construction projects larger than 50,000 square feet and all
demolition projects for buildings four stories or larger. The designated site
safety coordinator must have at least an OSHA 30-hour certification. Where more
than one site safety coordinator is to serve at the site, all such entities
shall agree to designate one such site safety coordinator as the primary site
safety coordinator, or where there is only one site safety coordinator, such
coordinator shall automatically be designated as the primary site safety
coordinator. The primary site safety coordinator shall carry out all duties and
responsibilities assigned to the site safety coordinator by this Section.
      (1)   Notification to the Department of the primary site safety
coordinator. The Inspectional Services Department shall be notified of the
primary site safety coordinator prior to the commencement of work. In the event
that an alternate site safety coordinator will be acting in place of the
primary site safety coordinator for a period longer than two consecutive weeks,
the Department must be so notified. Any permanent change of the primary site
safety coordinator requires immediate notification to the Inspectional Services
Department.
      (2)   Presence at the site. For the construction or alteration of a
building, the site safety coordinator shall be present at the site during alt
times while active work is occurring and through all phases of work, beginning
with excavation and continuing until the building is enclosed and all temporary
protective measures are removed. For the demolition of a building, the site
safety coordinator shall be present at the site during all times while active
work is occurring and through all phases of work, beginning with the removal of
any glass, asbestos or façade and, for a full demolition, continuing until the
site has been backfilled to grade, or for a partial demolition until the
building is enclosed and all temporary protective measures are removed.
      (3)   Alternate site safety coordinator. Where the primary site safety
coordinator is unable to be at the site, an alternate site safety coordinator
shall act in place of the primary site safety coordinator and carry out all
duties and responsibilities assigned to the site safety coordinator by this
Section and rules promulgated by the commissioner. Such shall be recorded in
the site safety log, as defined in division (D) below, and notification shall
be provided to the Inspectional Services Department.
      (4)   Limitation on primary site safety coordinator serving at another
site. No site safety coordinator designated as the primary site safety
coordinator at a site shall serve as a site coordinator at any other site.
   (B)   Site safety coordinator’s duties. The site safety coordinator shall
monitor compliance with the site safety plan and perform all other safety
duties assigned by the owner or general contractor to meet legal requirements.
      (1)   Weekly safety meeting. The site safety coordinator shall lead a
safety meeting with the designated representative of the general contractor,
construction manager and each subcontractor to ascertain that all contractors
and subcontractors are complying with the Site Safety Plan. Such meetings shall
occur at least once a week while active work is occurring.
      (2)   Notification of violations. In the event the site safety
coordinator discovers a violation of the site safety plan, he or she shall
immediately notify supervisory personnel of the general contractor or
subcontractor responsible for creating the violation and inform them of the
corrective work necessary to abate any unsafe conditions. All such violations
and corrective work shall be recorded in the site safety log, as defined in
division (D) below. Where unsafe work or an unsafe condition relates to an item
which a registered design professional or special inspection agency is
responsible for implementing or verifying, the site safety coordinator must
also notify the responsible registered design professional or special
inspection agency of the unsafe work or condition. All such unsafe conditions,
work, notices, orders and corrective action must be recorded in the site safety
log, as defined in division (D) below.
      (3)   Notification of conditions to the Department. The site safety
coordinator shall immediately notify the Inspectional Services Department
directly, in a manner determined by the Commissioner, if he or she discovers
any such hazardous or dangerous conditions or incidents as determined
reportable by the Commissioner in any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant
to this ordinance, including any unpermitted work or use of unpermitted
equipment. The site safety coordinator shall report violations of federal
workplace safety regulations to OSHA or the applicable Federal Department or
Agency in the manner that those Departments and Agencies have deemed
appropriate.
      (4)   Spot checks. The site safety coordinator shall personally perform
spot checks of the site on a regular basis throughout the day for compliance
with the Site Safety Plan.
      (5)   Inspections. The following inspections shall be performed and
documented by the site safety coordinator: daily, weekly and other checks as
specified in rules promulgated by the Commissioner.
   (C)   Record of inspections. A record of all such required inspections
conducted pursuant to this ordinance shall be maintained by such site safety
coordinator in the site safety log.
   (D)   Site safety log. The site safety coordinator shall maintain and keep a
site safety log at the site. The log, or where there is more than one log, the
logs in total, shall, at a minimum, contain the following information:
      (1)   Date and location of inspections performed in accordance with this
Section;
      (2)   Date and names of individuals met with to satisfy the requirements
of the weekly safety meeting;
      (3)   Any unsafe conditions, and dates and locations of said unsafe
conditions;
      (4)   Companies and representatives notified of unsafe conditions;
      (5)   Dates of notification of unsafe conditions;
      (6)   Dates of correction of unsafe conditions and nature of correction;
      (7)   Any violations, stop work orders, or summonses issued by the
Inspectional Services Department, including date issued and date lifted or
dismissed; and
      (8)   Other relevant information as may be required by the Department.
   (E)   Recording inspections in the site safety log. Inspections shall be
recorded by the end of the day by the site safety coordinator who performed the
inspection. The site safety log, or where there is more than one log, each
individual log, shall be completed and signed by the site safety coordinator.
   (F)   Recording change in site safety coordinator. If, at any point during
the day, an alternate site safety coordinator acts as the primary site safety
coordinator, this shall be noted in the log, and the alternate site safety
coordinator shall log in. If a site safety coordinator is relieved of his or
her responsibilities at the site, or a site safety coordinator leaves the site
for any reason, this shall be indicated in the site safety log, and another
site safety coordinator shall assume the duties of such relieved or absent site
safety coordinator by signing in.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.8   Enforcement.
   (A)   The Inspectional Services Department shall have the power to issue
violations, stop work, revoke permits and impose fines upon permit holders,
developers, general contractors/construction managers and subcontractors found
to be in non-compliance with this Section.
   (B)   Violations, stop work orders and the revocation of permits may be
imposed by the assigned Building Inspector.
   (C)   Fines may be imposed by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services
Department at the recommendation of the Inspector of Buildings as follows.
      (1)   Fines to a maximum of $300 for each violation. A violation occurs
where a general contractor/construction manager or subcontractor has not
complied with this Section. Each day of non-compliance shall be considered a
separate violation. The provisions of this Section may be enforced in
accordance with the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. Chapter 40,
Section 21D, and, if applicable, by seeking to restrain a violation by
injunction or other court proceeding.
      (2)   Creation of a record of non-compliance with city policy that may be
considered when awarding future construction contracts on city-funded projects
and future permits.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-65.9   Regulations.
   The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may promulgate rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 6)
16-66   UNLAWFUL CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
16-66.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP MATERIALS. Items used to establish or facilitate occupancy of a
campsite, including tents, tarps or other temporary structures, as well as
large furniture, stoves and other cooking instruments.
   CAMPSITE. Any place where a tent, tarp or other temporary structure is
established for the purpose of maintaining an outdoor shelter.
   CITY STORAGE PROGRAM POLICY. The city’s written policy for storage of
eligible property.
   ELIGIBLE PROPERTY. Items including, but not limited to, personal
identification and documents, valuables, clothing, hygiene products and
toiletries and items of basic necessities.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER SPACE. A city-authorized location providing temporary
shelter or alternative sleeping space practically available to persons
experiencing homelessness. EMERGENCY SHELTER SPACE shall be at a shelter,
housing accommodation or alternative sleeping space that maintains policies and
procedures for accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   PERIOD WHEN SHELTER IS UNAVAILABLE. A length of time in which there is no
emergency shelter space available to individuals experiencing homelessness in
the city.
   TO CAMP. To pitch, erect or occupy a campsite or to use camp materials, or
both, for the purpose of, or to facilitate, outdoor sheltering, either
temporarily or permanently.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.2   Purpose.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this Section to promote public health, public
safety, general welfare and the economic health and well-being of the city, its
workers, visitors and residents, including individuals experiencing
homelessness, by prohibiting unsanctioned camping and the dangerous and unsafe
conditions surrounding such campsites.
   (B)   This Section seeks to improve access to housing and recovery services
by restoring access to public spaces, the public rights-of-way and curtailing
the existence of campsites that shield drug trafficking, human trafficking,
weapons, fire hazards, violence and other criminal activity, and that create
conditions for large crowds to congregate. It is also the purpose of this
Section to protect the rights of individuals related to his or her personal
property and to treat such property with respect and consideration.
   (C)   This Section shall apply to all campsites and camping on public
property, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks and public rights-
of-way.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.3   Unlawful Camping on Public Property.
   It is unlawful for any person to camp or maintain a campsite or camp
materials in or on any public property or in the public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, any street, sidewalk, school or public park,
unless specifically authorized or during a period when shelter is unavailable.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.4   Restrictions on Unlawful Camping During a Period when Shelter is
Unavailable.
   (A)   The prohibition against campsites and camping shall not apply during a
period when shelter is unavailable.
   (B)   City Officials shall maintain daily, and revise regularly, a shelter
list that is communicated throughout the day to the Boston Police Department
and other City Departments for the purpose of identifying available shelter
space.
   (C)   During a period when shelter is unavailable, or when a campsite is
specifically authorized, a campsite or use of camping materials must comply
with existing state and local laws to ensure the public health and safety of
those in and around the campsite.
   (D)   During any period when shelter is unavailable, the Mayor’s Office of
Housing, in consultation with the Boston Public Health Commission, the Boston
Police Department and the Inspectional Services Department, is hereby
authorized to promulgate any additional restrictions relative to the time,
place and manner for camping, and density of campsites, in order to advance
public health, maintain access to the public right-of-way and support the
effective operation of facilities such as schools, shelters and health care
institutions during such periods.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.5   Offer of Shelter.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this Section, the city shall provide,
or cause to be provided, an offer of available emergency shelter space to an
individual experiencing homelessness, and must inform that individual that
transportation to available emergency shelter space is available.
   (B)   Each emergency shelter space offered to an individual shall be at a
shelter, housing accommodation or alternative sleeping space that maintains
policies and procedures for accommodations under the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.6   Storage of Property.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this Section, the city shall offer and
provide storage for personal belongings consistent with the City Storage
Program Policy. The City Storage Program Policy shall provide for the storage
of eligible property, further define property that is eligible for storage and
provide clear instructions on how individuals may regularly access and recover
his or her belongings.
   (B)   The City Storage Program Policy will also provide that for property at
a campsite that is not claimed by any person, City Staff will assess whether
the property is abandoned property or an individual’s temporarily unattended
property, including through inquiry to individuals in the area and a reasonable
attempt to identify the property owner. Property determined to pose an
immediate health or safety risk is subject to immediate disposal.
   (C)   The city shall store temporarily unattended eligible property under
the City Storage Program Policy. For temporarily unattended property that is
not eligible for city storage, the Inspectional Services Department will either
post notice for 24 hours prior to removal of the unattended property not
eligible for city storage or will temporarily store the unattended property and
post notice as to how to recover it.
   (D)   City Officials shall provide a written copy of the City Storage
Program Policy when providing an offer of storage, which shall be made
available in each language that meets a language access need in the city as
most recently determined by the Office of Language and Communications Access.
   (E)   In the event that an individual chooses to leave the area without his
or her belongings upon learning of a violation of this Section, City Staff
shall store eligible property in line with the City Storage Program Policy.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall maintain a feedback system on the City Storage
Program through which individuals can complete a form either online or by
requesting a physical form from a City Employee or Agent. These feedback forms
can be used to submit general feedback or to submit a claim for reimbursement
for lost property. All claim forms submitted pursuant to this Section shall be
submitted to the City Clerk for appropriate routing. No fees may be charged for
the processing of claims submitted pursuant to this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.7   Removal.
   Once the city has engaged an individual as described in Subsections 16-66.5
and 16-66.6, and the individual has either accepted or declined the offers, the
city shall remove any campsite and/or camp materials not removed by the
individual.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.8   Notice to Individuals.
   (A)   Immediately upon passage, the city shall distribute leaflets to
individuals and post weather-resistant signs in locations with a concentrated
number of campsites to provide additional actual notice of this Section and the
effective date. The leaflet shall contain a written copy of this Section, a
written copy of the City Storage Program Policy and written copies of
additional resources, which shall be made available in each language that meets
a language access need in the city as most recently determined by the Office of
Language and Communications Access.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of this Section, once the city has engaged an
individual as described in Subsections 16-66.5 and 16-66.6, no further notice
is required to enforce this Section.
   (C)   In the case of a period when shelter is unavailable, when the city
notifies an individual located in any campsite that a period when shelter is
unavailable has ended, the individual shall have 48 hours to remove his or her
camping materials.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.9   Penalty for Violations.
   (A)   Individuals in violation of this Section who refuse to remove or allow
for removal of the campsite or camp materials as described in Subsection 16-
66.7, or who reestablish a campsite following removal pursuant to Subsection
16-66.7, shall be subject to penalties. This Section shall be enforced by the
Boston Police Department as well as any sworn law enforcement agency empowered
to make an arrest within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
   (B)   Any of the following penalties may apply.
      (1)   All enforcement methods authorized by law, including, issuance of a
warning, M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21, or enforcement authorized by M.G.L.
Chapter 272, Section 59 (Ordinances or Regulations Relating to Streets,
Reservations or Parkways; Alcoholic Beverages; Profanity; Arrest Without
Warrant) if the Boston Police or other duly authorized officer on scene
determines a violation of M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 59 has occurred in their
presence.
      (2)   This Section shall go into effect seven days after the date of
passage to permit any individuals located in any campsite to remove camping
materials in order to comply with this Section.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.10   Reporting to Boston City Council.
   The city will attend a hearing hosted by the Boston City Council to present
an end of year report related to the provisions of this Section every year.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
16-66.11   Severability.
   The provisions in this Section are severable. If any part or provision of
this Section is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this Section shall not be affected by such holding and shall
continue to have full force and effect.
(Ord. 2023 c. 9)
CHAPTER XVII: LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES
Section
17-1   LICENSING AND REGULATION OF ABORTIONS AND ABORTION CLINICS
   
17-1.1   License Required; Fee; Conditions of License
   
17-1.2   Definitions
   
17-1.3   Violations
   
17-1.4   Time Allowed for Compliance
17-2   GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS
   
17-2.1   Requiring Compressed Air and Water at Service Stations
   
17-2.2   Violations
   
17-2.3   Gasoline Prices
17-3   HAYMARKET-BLACKSTONE MARKET
   
17-3.1   Market Area Designated
   
17-3.2   Hours That Sales Are Permitted
   
17-3.3   Authority of Health Division
   
17-3.4   Licenses Issued by the Commissioner of Public Works
   
17-3.5   Additional Charges for Services Rendered by City
17-4   JUNK DEALERS, WEIGHERS AND MEASURERS
   
17-4.1   Licenses
   
17-4.2   Record of Purchases to be Kept; Inspection
   
17-4.3   Signs
   
17-4.4   Sales Restricted
   
17-4.5   Restriction on Display of Articles
   
17-4.6   Weighers of Vessels and Ballast, Books and Accounts
   
17-4.7   Office of Weighers
   
17-4.8   Masters of Vessels to Report to Weigher; Inspection of Vessels
   
17-4.9   Reports and Certificates
   
17-4.10   Vessel Not Subject to Second Weighing
   
17-4.11   Fees for Measurers of Wood and Bark
   
17-4.12   Fees for Measuring Grain
   
17-4.13   Fee for Inspecting Ballast
   
17-4.14   All Other Fees
17-5   MINORS’ LICENSES
   
17-5.1   Requirements for Licenses
   
17-5.2   Issue of License
   
17-5.3   Conditions
17-6   MISREPRESENTATION IN CONNECTION WITH JOB INCENTIVE PROGRAMS
   
17-6.1   Penalty for Violation
17-7   REAL ESTATE; REGULATION OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES
   
17-7.1   Regulation of Real Estate Activities
17-8   REGISTRATION OF KEEPERS OF SHOPS FOR BARTER, RENTAL OR SALE OF PRINTED
MATTER OR MOTION PICTURE FILMS RESTRICTED TO ADULTS
   
17-8.1   Registration of Certain Shops
   
17-8.2   Filing for Application
   
17-8.3   Penalty for Violation
17-9   RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY; USE REGULATIONS
   
17-9.1   Guidelines for the Regulation of Recombinant DNA Use
   
17-9.2   Large Scale
   
17-9.3   Boston Biohazards Committee (“BBC”)
   
17-9.4   Restrictions
   
17-9.5   Fees and Expenses
   
17-9.6   Penalties
   
17-9.7   Severability of Sections
   
17-9.8   Term
17-10   PERMITTING AND REGULATION OF MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
   
17-10.1   Definitions
   
17-10.2   Scope
   
17-10.3   Mobile Food Trucks Committee
   
17-10.4   Mobile Food Truck Permit Required
   
17-10.5   Application for a Mobile Food Truck Permit
   
17-10.6   Limitation on the Number of Permits
   
17-10.7   Permit Renewal
   
17-10.8   Rules and Regulations
   
17-10.9   Permit Fees
   
17-10.10   Prohibition Against the Transfer of a Permit
   
17-10.11   Operation of Mobile Food Trucks
   
17-10.12   Enforcement
   
17-10.13   Severability
17-11   RESERVED
17-12   SAFETY CONTROL MEASURES IN EVENT OF GAS LEAK OR OTHER EMERGENCIES
   
17-12.1   Control Measures Required for Emergency Situations
   
17-12.2   Safety Release Discharge Mechanism
   
17-12.3   Testing of Water and Sewer Lines; Monitoring of Pipeline Flow
   
17-12.4   Enforcement
17-13   THEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS AND PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
   
17-13.1   Application for License
   
17-13.2   Time Limit for Acting on Application
   
17-13.3   Issuance of Licenses
   
17-13.4   Suspension of License
   
17-13.5   Fine for Violation
   
17-13.6   Prohibiting Entertainment During Certain Hours
   
17-13.7   Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Diseases
17-14   TRANSIENT VENDORS
   
17-14.1   Licenses for Vendors
   
17-14.2   Issuance of Licenses; Bond to City
   
17-14.3   Display of License
   
17-14.4   Definition
   
17-14.5   Penalties for Violation
17-15   TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY MOTOR VEHICLE; REGULATIONS
   
17-15.1   Definitions
   
17-15.2   Regulations Established
   
17-15.3   Suspension of Operations
   
17-15.4   Authority to Restrict Other Hazardous Materials
   
17-15.5   Authority to Suspend Restriction
   
17-15.6   Delivery of Gasoline and Home Heating Oil
   
17-15.7   Reports
   
17-15.8   Violations
   
17-15.9   Severability
   
17-15.10   Fees, Rules and Effective Dates
17-16   TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY RAIL; NOTIFICATION OF FIRE
COMMISSIONER
   
17-16.1   Notification of Fire Commissioner; Time Required
   
17-16.2   Fire Commissioner’s Procedures
   
17-16.3   Violations; Penalty
17-17   PRUDENTIAL AFFAIRS AND INTERNAL POLICE; REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN ARMED
SECURITY GUARDS AND LICENSURE AS SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS OPERATING IN A PUBLIC
PLACE
   
17-17.1   Armed Security Guard or Watchmen Registration
   
17-17.2   Definition of Public Place
   
17-17.3   Business Registration
   
17-17.4   Employment
   
17-17.5   Armed Security Guards or Watchmen Licensed as Special Police Officers
   
17-17.6   Renewal and Revocation of Special Police Officer License
   
17-17.7   Covered Armed Security Guard or Watchman
   
17-17.8   Regulatory Authority; Enforcement and Fees
   
17-17.9   Severability
   
17-17.10   Implementation
   
17-17.11   Fines
17-18   REGULATING THE PRACTICE OF BRINGING THEIR OWN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ONTO
THE PREMISES
   
17-18.1   Bringing Own Alcoholic Beverages onto the Premises
17-19   REGULATING ACOUSTIC LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
   
17-19.1   Acoustic Live Entertainment
17-20   REDUCTION OF CHECKOUT BAGS BY RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
   
17-20.1   Purpose
   
17-20.2   Definitions
   
17-20.3   Requirements
   
17-20.4   Enforcement
   
17-20.5   Exemption
   
17-20.6   Effective Date
   
17-20.7   Severability
17-21   LICENSING AND REGULATING SHARED MOBILITY BUSINESSES
   
17-21.1   Definitions
   
17-21.2   Operation of a Small Vehicle Sharing Business
   
17-21.3   Rental and Storage of Small Vehicles
   
17-21.4   Small Vehicle Sharing Business Advisory Committee
   
17-21.5   Authority over Small Vehicle Sharing Businesses
   
17-21.6   Vehicle Sharing Businesses
   
17-21.7   Enforcement
   
17-21.8   Severability
17-1   LICENSING AND REGULATION OF ABORTIONS AND ABORTION CLINICS.
17-1.1   License Required; Fee; Conditions of License.
   No person shall operate an abortion clinic, as hereinafter defined, nor,
except in a general hospital, perform or offer an abortion as hereinafter
defined, whether or not the same is done for a charge or profit, except under
license of the Board of Health and Hospitals issued annually at a fee of
$1,000, which license shall be issued upon the condition that the holder
thereof comply with such regulations as the Board shall, from time to time,
make, amend and repeal, which regulations shall provide for:
   (A)   Minimum standards for the attendance of qualified professional persons
at such abortion or abortion clinic;
   (B)   Equipment and procedures for use in the event of emergency;
   (C)   The administration of Rho-Gam or its medical equivalent to those
patients requiring the same, as a part of the established fee for abortion;
   (D)   Pre-abortion counseling and post-abortion examination of patients
without charge to the patient beyond the established fee for abortion;
   (E)   Periodic inspection of the premises by the Board; and
   (F)   Such other regulations as to the Board appear necessary for the health
and safety of patients.
(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1985 17-1.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-1.3
17-1.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABORTION. The intentional administration of any drug or substance, or of any
surgical, mechanical or manual process, or of any regimen, exercise or
procedure causing, or likely to cause, the destruction of the life of an unborn
child or the expulsion or removal from the womb of an unborn child or fetus,
other than for the principal purpose of producing a live birth or the removing
of an already dead fetus.
   ABORTION CLINIC. A place, other than a clinic operated by and within a
general hospital, where abortions are offered or performed, whether or not the
same is done for charge or profit, and whether or not such place would
otherwise be described or termed a clinic.
(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1985 17-1.2)
17-1.3   Violations.
   Every person violating this Section, or assisting another in the violation
of this Section, shall be punished by a fine of $200, and for the purposes of
this Section, each abortion offered or performed, and each day any abortion
clinic is in operation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1985 17-1.3)
17-1.4   Time Allowed for Compliance.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 2-12.3, this Section shall be
published by the action of the Boston City Council in passing the same, and
shall be in effect upon passage except that abortion clinics in operation on
the effective date hereof shall not be required to obtain a license hereunder
until the sixtieth day following passage.
(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 2; CBC 1985 17-1.4)
17-2   GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
17-2.1   Requiring Compressed Air and Water at Service Stations.
   Persons engaged in the business of selling gasoline or other fuel for motor
vehicles at retail in the city shall, during the hours they are so engaged,
have compressed air and water available for the use of motorists.
(Ord. 1979 c. 31 § 1; CBC 1985 17-2.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-2.2
17-2.2   Violations.
   Any person violating this Section shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$50 for each offense. Failure to have such air and water available during the
hours of any one day when such person is selling such gasoline or other fuel at
retail shall be one offense.
(Ord. 1979 c. 31 § 2; CBC 1985 17-2.2)
17-2.3   Gasoline Prices.
   No person engaged in the sale of gasoline by pump shall display, or suffer
the display, of the price thereof by sign or other marking located at or near
the premises upon which such person is so engaged unless such sign or other
marking or a similar sign or other similar marking is attached to the pump or
pumps to which said price applies, or unless such sign or other marking clearly
indicates the pump or pumps to which said price applies.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 351; CBC 1985 17-2.3; Renumbered by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 41)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-3   HAYMARKET-BLACKSTONE MARKET.
17-3.1   Market Area Designated.
   There shall be designated in downtown Boston an area known as the Haymarket-
Blackstone Market which shall consist of Blackstone Street from North to
Hanover; North Street from Blackstone to Union; Hanover Street from Blackstone
to Union, but not including Union Street or any other street within that area
but shall include only these streets for market purposes.
(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 1; CBC 1985 17-3.1)
17-3.2   Hours That Sales Are Permitted.
   Vendors shall be licensed by the city Health and Hospitals Department and
shall be allowed on the above streets from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., Fridays and
Saturdays.
(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 2; CBC 1985 17-3.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-3.3   Authority of Health Division.
   The Boston Health and Hospitals Department, Health Division, shall determine
who are proper persons to be licensed and what portion of said Haymarket-
Blackstone area they shall be assigned to.
(Ord. 1979 c. 6 § 3; CBC 1985 17-3.3)
17-3.4   Licenses Issued by the Commissioner of Public Works.
   Subject to Section 5 of the rules and regulations of the Department of
Public Works, effective as of January 1, 1955, the Commissioner of Public Works
may issue sidewalk or street licenses for the market area delineated in the
above Section on any other day but not excluding Friday and Saturday except
that on Friday and Saturday sidewalk and street licenses may be issued to that
portion of the street not already assigned to a licensed pushcart vendor.
(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 4; CBC 1985 17-3.4)
17-3.5   Additional Charges for Services Rendered by City.
   (A)   Charges imposed. Each licensee holding a license under any provision
of law to use or occupy a street or sidewalk in the historic Haymarket-
Blackstone Market, as defined in Subsection 17-3.1, shall pay to the city in
each fiscal year a charge, in addition to any licensing fee imposed, for
services rendered or work performed by the city for that class of persons who
are such licensees to clean up and dispose of commercial refuse and garbage in
said Market. Said charge shall be imposed for each such license held and shall
be fixed by the Commissioner of Public Works, under the authority of St. 1949,
c. 222, as the Commissioner in his or her discretion may determine; provided,
however, that said charge shall not be greater than $1,000 for each such
license held in any fiscal year; and provided further, that said Commissioner
shall fix the charge to be paid for each such license held based upon the
actual costs incurred by the city for such clean up and disposal in the
preceding fiscal year and upon the number of licenses held by the licensees in
said class.
   (B)   Time for payment. Said charge shall be paid to the city by each
licensee in said class no later than 30 days after the day on which said
Commissioner has sent notice to said licensees of the charge fixed by him or
her.
   (C)   Failure to pay. If a licensee fails to pay a charge authorized by this
Subsection within the time specified in division (B) above, the licensing
authority is hereby authorized to revoke or suspend any license granted and, in
its discretion, may refuse to issue any subsequent license until any charge
authorized herein has been paid.
(CBC 1985 17-3.5; Ord. 1992 c. 8 §§ 1-3)
17-4   JUNK DEALERS, WEIGHERS AND MEASURERS.
17-4.1   Licenses.
   The Police Commissioner of the city may license suitable persons to be
collectors of, or dealers in and keepers of shops for the purchase, sale or
barter of, junk, old metals or second-hand articles.
(Ord. May 6,1839; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 1; M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 54; CBC
1975 Ord. T14 § 400; CBC 1985 17-4.1)
Cross-reference:
   Section 11-1; Subsection 16-24.1
17-4.2   Record of Purchases to be Kept; Inspection.
   Every shop-keeper shall keep a book, in which shall be written, at the time
of every purchase of any such article, a description thereof and the name, age
and residence of the person from whom, and the day and hour when, such purchase
was made; and the shop of such shopkeeper, and all articles of merchandise
therein, and such book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the
Mayor, the Boston City Council, the Police Commissioner or of any person by
them respectively authorized to make such inspection.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 401; CBC 1985 17-4.2) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
17-4.3   Signs.
   Every such shop-keeper shall put in some suitable and conspicuous place on
his or her shop a sign having his or her name and occupation legibly inscribed
thereon in large letters.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 402; CBC 1985 17-4.3) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
17-4.4   Sales Restricted.
   No such shop-keeper holding a license from the Police Commissioner as a
dealer in second-hand articles shall permit to be sold any article purchased or
received by him or her until at least 30 days after its purchase or receipt.
Nor shall any dealer in, or keeper of a shop for the purchase, sale or barter
of, junk or old metals, permit to be sold any article purchased or received by
him or her until at least one week after its purchase or receipt.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 403; CBC 1985 17-4.3) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
Cross-reference:
   Subsection 16-24.1
17-4.5   Restriction on Display of Articles.
   No such shop-keeper holding a license from the Police Commissioner as a
dealer in any second-hand articles shall permit to be displayed any second-hand
furniture or household effects in any open area surrounding or appurtenant to
the premises occupied by said license.
(Ords. 1931 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 404; CBC 1985
17-4.5) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-4.6   Weighers of Vessels and Ballast, Books and Accounts.
   The Weighers of Vessels and Ballast shall keep regular books showing the
work done, the reports thereon, the fees earned and the dates of all
certificates.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 6; M.G.L. Chapter 102, Section 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 §
405; CBC 1985 17-4.6) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 11 § 30
17-4.7   Office of Weighers.
   The Office of Weighers shall be open from sunrise to sunset on every day
except Sundays and legal holidays, but may be closed during the months of
April, May, June, July, August and September, from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., and
during the other months from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., and through the whole year
from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 7; M.G.L. Chapter 102, Section 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 §
406; CBC 1985 17-4.7) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 11 § 30
17-4.8   Masters of Vessels to Report to Weigher; Inspection of Vessels.
   The master of every vessel that has stone, sand, gravel or ballast for sale
by weight, to be delivered within the city, shall, on arrival, report in person
at the Office of the Weighers, and shall produce for examination a certificate
of the marks and measurements of his or her vessel whenever a weigher so
demands. One of the weighers shall go on board every such vessel, and inspect
its marks both before and after the delivery of such material, and inspect and
weigh such material; and the person having charge of the vessel shall before
such delivery, if so required by the weigher, pump out all the water in the
vessel, and trim it so as to make it swim at equal marks at stem and stern, and
shall not deliver any such material until inspected; but this Subsection shall
not apply to sand sold for building purposes unless the purchasers request an
inspection. Whoever violates any provision of this Subsection shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $100 for each offense.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 407; CBC 1985 17-4.8)
Cross-reference:
   Statutes, Title 11 § 30
17-4.9   Reports and Certificates.
   When a weigher has inspected and weighed any stone, sand, gravel or ballast
in any vessel, he or she shall forthwith file a report in the Office of the
Weigher, showing the name of the vessel, the vendor, the kind of material, the
weight and deduction of light-water marks and the amount of fees received, and
shall give a certificate, containing the same matters, to the vendor or owner,
but such certificate shall not be given for any material sold out below light-
water marks.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 408; CBC 1985 17-4.9) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
17-4.10   Vessel Not Subject to Second Weighing.
   No vessel which has once been weighed and marked according to law by weigher
of the city shall be subject to charge for a second weighing or marking, unless
it appears that her former weight or marks are incorrect or have been changed;
but every vessel which has been so weighed and marked shall be subject to the
examination and inspection of every weigher, without charge, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the weights are correct or have been altered.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 409; CBC 1985 17-4.10) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
Cross-reference:
   St. T.9 § 10; St. T.11 § 30
17-4.11   Fees for Measurers of Wood and Bark.
   The fees for measurers of wood and bark shall be $0.10 for each cord
measured, to be paid to the measurer by the owner or vendor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 11; M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 300; CBC 1975 T14 § 410;
CBC 1985 17-4.11)
17-4.12   Fees for Measuring Grain.
   The fees for measuring wheat, corn or other grain shall be $0.0075 for each
bushel, to be paid to the measurer by the owner or vendor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 12; M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 221; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 §
411; CBC 1985 17-4.12)
17-4.13   Fee for Inspecting Ballast.
   The fee for inspecting the weight of stone, sand, gravel or ballast of any
kind shall be $0.05 for every ton, which fee in all cases shall be paid by the
vendor and repaid by the vendee.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 412; CBC 1985 17-4.13)
17-4.14   All Other Fees.
   All fees not herein specifically enumerated shall be as provided by law.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 413; CBC 1985 17-4.14)
17-5   MINORS’ LICENSES.
17-5.1   Requirements for Licenses.
   No minor between the ages of 16 and 21 years shall, in any street or public
place of the city, work as a bootblack, or sell or expose for sale any
newspapers, magazines and periodicals, ice, song sheets, religious
publications, flowering plant and such flowers, fruit and berries as are wild
and cultivated unless he or she has a license therefor granted by the Mayor and
Boston City Council.
(Reg. January 25, 1892; St. 1934 c. 114; St. 1937 c. 73; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 §
15; M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 414; CBC 1985 17-5.1)
Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-5.2   Issue of License.
   The City Clerk shall receive applications of parents or guardians of minors,
or of responsible citizens of the city, for licenses for minors, and shall,
when such a license is granted, issue the license and a badge to such minor.
Every such license shall be issued and accepted on condition that the minor
shall comply with the terms of the following Subsection, which shall be printed
in the license.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 415; CBC 1985 17-5.2)
Cross-reference:
   ss 2-10.3
17-5.3   Conditions.
   The minor shall conform to the statutes and ordinances; shall surrender his
or her license and badge to the City Clerk when notified that his or her
license has been revoked; shall not transfer or lend his or her license or
badge, or furnish any unlicensed minor with newspapers or other articles to
sell; shall not sell newspapers in or on any part of a street other than the
sidewalk, or in or on a street car without the permission of the company
operating such car; shall not at any time, while engaged in working as a
bootblack or selling articles in public places, congregate with other persons,
or make unnecessary noise, or in any way disturb or annoy persons as they pass,
or obstruct free passage on any sidewalk, crosswalk or entrance to any public
place, or occupy any stand with any other person, or allow any unlicensed minor
to assist or accompany him or her, or allow idle persons to assemble or
congregate around him or her or around any stand occupied by him or her, or so
work or sell in any other place than that specified in his or her license when
a place is so specified, or at any time while so working or selling fail to
wear conspicuously in sight the badge furnished to him or her by the City
Clerk, or fail to exhibit his or her license to any Police or other Officer of
the city if requested by him or her so to do. Any minor who violates any of
these provisions shall be deprived of his or her license and badge, and be
subject to a fine.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 17; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 416; CBC 1985 17-5.3) Penalty,
see Subsection 16-32.1
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss. 2-10.3
17-6   MISREPRESENTATION IN CONNECTION WITH JOB INCENTIVE PROGRAMS.
17-6.1   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person who willfully falsifies or misrepresents his or her age, sex,
race or residence in order to take advantage of a hiring program made a part of
any governmental construction contract shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $200 per day for each day of employment acquired as a result of such
misrepresentation or falsification.
(Ord. 1979 c. 32; CBC 1985 17-6.1)
17-7   REAL ESTATE; REGULATION OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
17-7.1   Regulation of Real Estate Activities.
   (A)   Any person who solicits the sale, lease, sub-lease, or the listing for
sale, lease or sub-lease, of residential property on the ground of a current or
prospective change in the ethnic, racial, social or religious character of a
neighborhood or on the grounds of the expansion of the Logan International
Airport in the East Boston Section of Boston, and any person who induces or
attempts to induce such a sale, lease, sub-lease or listing by a statement,
written or oral, concerning any such neighborhood change, shall be punished by
a fine not exceeding $50 on account of each solicitation or listing made, or
inducement offered, to any person or business entity who is the owner or lessee
of residential property, or who seeks to own or lease such property.
   (B)   Every real estate broker soliciting the sale, lease or the listing for
sale or lease, of three or more residential properties fronting on either side
of any street between intersecting or cross-streets or between a cul-de-sac or
other like termination point and an intersecting or cross-street within any 90-
day period, whether directly or through his or her salesperson, shall maintain
a permanent record, for at least one year from the date of said solicitation
which shall be available for inspection by the Corporation Counsel or any
representative thereof upon request, setting forth the name and address of each
person so solicited, the address of the property involved, the name of the
licensee actually making such solicitation, and the date upon which the
solicitation took place. At the request of the Corporation Counsel or any
representative thereof, any such broker shall file with the Corporation Counsel
a copy of the permanent record, or a statement containing the same information
as set forth in the permanent record. Such filing shall be made with the City
Clerk no later than ten days following the request therefor.
   (C)   For the purposes hereof, SOLICITING includes solicitation by
telephone, mail, personal visitation, materials distributed by hand or other
media.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 18A; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 417; CBC 1985 17-
7.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 5-8.1
17-8   REGISTRATION OF KEEPERS OF SHOPS FOR BARTER, RENTAL OR SALE OF PRINTED
MATTER OR MOTION PICTURE FILMS RESTRICTED TO ADULTS.
17-8.1   Registration of Certain Shops.
   On and after September 1, 1969, no person shall in any year keep a shop for
the barter, rental or sale of printed matter or motion picture film if such
shop is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes of the
public excluding minors under 18 years of age unless in such year or in the
preceding December for such year such person has registered with the City Clerk
as provided in Subsection 17-8.2 and the number assigned to him or her upon
such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on all printed matter
and motion picture films in such shop; nor shall any person keeping a shop for
the barter, rental or sale of printed matter or motion picture film in any year
keep a part of his or her stock segregated as available only to one or more
classes of the public excluding minors under 18 years of age unless in such
year or in the preceding December for such year such person has registered with
the City Clerk as provided in Subsection 17-8.2 and the number assigned to him
or her upon such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on all
printed matter and motion picture films constituting a part of the stock so
segregated; nor shall any person in any year at any place in the city, barter,
rent or sell, or offer for barter, rental or sale, any printed matter or motion
picture film bearing a legend restricting it to adults only or to one or more
classes of the public excluding minors under 18 years of age unless in such
year or in the preceding December for such year such person has registered with
the City Clerk as provided in Subsection 17-5.2 and the number assigned to him
or her upon such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on such
printed matter or motion picture film.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23A; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 423; CBC 1985 17-
8.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-8.3
Editor’s note:
   This Section and the following two were held unconstitutional in Broadway
Distributors, Inc. v. White, 307 F. Supp. 1180 (D. Mass. 1970).
17-8.2   Filing for Application.
   (A)   Any person desiring that a registration number be assigned to him or
her for the purpose of Subsection 17-8.1 shall make application therefor to the
City Clerk in a writing setting forth:
      (1)   His or her name and place of residence;
      (2)   The address of such shop or place;
      (3)   The names and places of residence of all persons having a financial
interest in the business; and
      (4)   The names and business addresses of all persons supplying the
printed matter or motion picture film to be offered for barter, rental or sale.
   (B)   Any person making application as aforesaid shall, from time to time,
during the year as circumstances change file supplementary writings with the
City Clerk setting forth such changes. Unless, subsequent to the effective date
of Subsection 17-8.1, the applicant has violated M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 28
and been finally adjudged guilty of such violation, the City Clerk shall assign
to the applicant a registration number.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23B; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 424; CBC 1985 17-
8.2) Penalty, see Subsection 17-8.3
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 28; See note above
17-8.3   Penalty for Violation.
   Whoever violates any provision of Subsection 17-8.1 or whoever makes a false
or fraudulent representation in making an application under Subsection 17-8.2,
or whoever neglects or fails to file supplementary writings as required by
Subsection 17-8.2 shall be subject to a fine of $50 for each day on which such
violation occurs or during which such violation continues.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23C; CBC 1975 Ord. T14, § 425; CBC 1985 17-
8.3)
Editor’s note:
   See note above.
17-9   RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY; USE REGULATIONS.
17-9.1   Guidelines for the Regulation of Recombinant DNA Use.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GUIDELINES.
         (a)   National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research Involving
Recombinant DNA molecules as published in the Federal Register of November 21,
1980.
         (b)   National Institute of Health Physical Containment
Recommendations for large-scale use of organisms containing Recombinant DNA
molecules as published in the Federal Register on April 11, 1980.
         (c)   Administrative Practices Supplement to NIH Guidelines for
Research involving Recombinant DNA molecules as issued by the Office of
Recombinant DNA Activities, November, 1980.
         (d)   Such amendments to divisions (a), (b) and (c) above which are
adopted by NIH and approved by the Commissioner. Amendments not acted upon by
the Commissioner within 60 days shall be considered approved.
      INSTITUTION. Any single individual, group of individuals or organization.
      RECOMBINANT DNA MOLECULES (RDNA) and ORGANISMS AND VIRUSES CONTAINING
RDNA. As defined in the National Institutes of Health Guidelines promulgated in
the Federal Register on November 21, 1980, and such amendments thereto as may
be approved by the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals (“Commissioner”).
Amendments not acted upon by the Commissioner within 60 days shall be
considered approved.
   (B)   Purpose. All use of RDNA by institutions in the city shall be
undertaken only in strict conformity with the “Guidelines”, as defined in
division (A) above, and in conformity with such other health regulations as the
Board of Health and Hospitals (Board) may, from time to time, promulgate or
administrative practices which the Commissioner may, from time to time,
require.
   (C)   Boston Biohazards Committee.
      (1)   A Boston Biohazards Committee (“BBC”) shall be established within
30 days of the time of passage of this Section for the purpose of overseeing
all use of RDNA within the city and of advising the Commissioner and the Board,
all in accordance with the powers and the duties assumed pursuant to Subsection
17-9.3.
      (2)   The BBC shall be composed of seven members, one of whom shall be
the Commissioner, or his or her designee, who shall serve as Chair; two of whom
shall be residents of neighborhoods which are or may be impacted by RDNA
research or technology; one of whom shall be a scientist knowledgeable in the
field of RDNA research or technology; and three of whom shall assure
representation from the fields of public health, occupational health and
infectious diseases. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Boston City Council, except for the two community
representatives. Each neighborhood impacted by RDNA research or production may
nominate a delegate to attend and participate in meetings of the BBC. The
Commissioner shall arrange with an established community group in each such
neighborhood to conduct an election, at no cost to the city, to nominate such
delegates. Neighborhood delegates will arrange among themselves at the first
meeting of the BBC in each year which delegates shall hold the voting
memberships provided in this Section. The members as appointed by the Mayor
shall serve for terms of three years, except that one member initially
appointed to represent a neighborhood which is or may be impacted by RDNA
research or technology and one member initially appointed to assure
representation from the fields of public health, occupational health or
infectious disease shall be initially appointed for terms of two years; and the
other two members initially appointed to assure representation from the fields
of public health, occupational health or infectious disease shall be initially
appointed for terms of one year. Persons appointed by the Mayor to fill
vacancies shall serve for the unexpired term of said vacancy. Appointments not
acted upon by the Boston City Council shall automatically take effect after 21
days.
      (3)   Upon the request of the BBC, the Commissioner shall make available
competent professional assistance to assist the BBC in carrying out its duties
under this Section.
   (D)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   All institutions proposing to use RDNA must obtain a permit from
the Board which must be renewed annually. Permit requirements shall, at
minimum, include written agreement to:
         (a)   Following the “Guidelines” as defined in Subsection 17-9.1;
         (b)   Follow other conditions as set forth in this Section;
         (c)   Allow inspections, at reasonable times, of facilities and
pertinent records;
         (d)   Prepare a Health and Safety Manual which contains all procedures
relevant to the use of RDNA at all levels of containments at use at the
institution;
         (e)   Establish a training program of safeguards and procedures for
personnel using RDNA; and
         (f)   Submit, to the BBC, for approval by the Commissioner, a plan for
the systematic monitoring of research and production waste to assure that
surviving RDNA organisms are not released into the environment. Said plan shall
include provisions that no surviving RDNA organisms are released into the
city’s sewerage system.
      (2)   Applications for permits must be acted upon within 60 days, unless
such applications involve physical containment defined by the “Guidelines” as
“P2” or “P3” or are defined by the “Guidelines” as “large scale” activities, in
which case applications must be acted upon within 90 days. Failure to act
within such time period shall constitute an approval.
      (3)   Any institution which has not commenced RDNA activity as of the
effective date of this Section may not proceed until a permit is issued. All
other institutions must apply for such permits within 60 days of the effective
date of this Section.
   (E)   The Institutional Biosafety Committees (“IBCs”), shall be established
in accordance with the “Guidelines”, except that the required composition of
the committees shall include at least one representative of the local community
approved by the Commissioner and at least one non-doctoral person from the
laboratory technical staff.
   (F)   The Commissioner may require the forwarding of minutes of IBC meetings
and may also require the filing of regular reports, all in a manner to be
determined by him or her. To the extent IBC minutes may contain trade secrets
or proprietary information the Commissioner and the Institution shall develop
procedures for assuring confidentiality.
   (G)   Institutions using RDNA shall perform adequate screening to ensure the
purity of the strain of host organisms used in the experiments and shall test
organisms resulting from such experiments for their resistance to commonly used
therapeutic antibiotics.
   (H)   (1)   All institutions using RDNA shall provide an appropriate medical
surveillance program as determined by their IBC for all persons engaged in the
use of RDNA. Such programs must be submitted to and approved by the
Commissioner and shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to:
         (a)   A medical examination for employees prior to their employment in
a laboratory or area engaged in RDNA research or technology;
         (b)   Prompt reporting of significant or potentially related employee
illnesses to their IBC; and
         (c)   Retention of medical and health records for a period of time to
be determined by the Commissioner.
      (2)   The Commissioner, with the advice and recommendations of the BBC,
may set minimum standards for medical examinations, employee illness reporting
and medical and health records, and may likewise require, for specified levels
of physical containment or large-scale use, the taking of serum samples at the
time of employment and their maintenance to permit future testing. The
Commissioner and the institution shall develop procedures to assure that the
confidentiality of employee health and medical records are protected.
   (I)   The institution shall report within 30 days to the Commissioner and
the BBC any significant problems with or violations of the “Guidelines” and any
significant RDNA related accidents or illnesses.
   (J)   All areas in which RDNA is utilized shall be free of rodent and insect
infestation.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 1; CBC 1985 17-9.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-9.6
17-9.2   Large Scale.
   All institutions using RDNA on a “Large Scale” (as defined in the
“Guidelines”) must adhere to the following requirements in addition to those
stated in Subsection 17-9.1.
   (A)   (1)   All institutions intending to engage in large-scale procedures
must obtain a special, large-scale permit from the Board, which must be renewed
annually, prior to commencing such procedures. Said permit shall be separate
and distinct, but otherwise in addition to the permit required by Subsection
17-9.1.
      (2)   Such Large-Scale Permit shall require, at minimum, written
agreement to:
         (a)   Identify clearly all large-scale RDNA use in their IBC minutes;
         (b)   Develop procedures through their IBC for monitoring large-scale
operations for compliance with this Section and the “Guidelines”, to be
approved by the Commissioner; and
         (c)   Establish a Health-Safety Program for appropriate employees
which shall include periodic health surveillance which must be approved by the
Commissioner.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall cause any facility using Large-Scale RDNA to be
inspected no less than annually.
   (C)   Prior to issuing any Large-Scale Permit the Board shall conduct an
appropriate public hearing.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 2; CBC 1985 17-9.2) Penalty, see Subsection 17-9.6
17-9.3   Boston Biohazards Committee (“BBC”).
   Recognizing the need for community and scientific input to assist the Board
and the Commissioner in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in
regulating Recombinant DNA research, production and technology, the BBC, as
established by Subsection 17-9.1(C), shall have the following duties and
responsibilities.
   (A)   The BBC shall continually review literature in the area of Recombinant
DNA research, production and technology and shall continually review the
effectiveness of the regulatory system established by this Section and, in
light of such review, shall advise and make recommendations to the Commissioner
and the Board as to the manner in which the system may be improved. Included
within such responsibilities, the BBC shall review and make recommendations to
the Commissioner on all amendments to the “Guidelines”.
   (B)   The BBC shall review and make recommendations to the Board on all
applications for permits and permit renewals.
   (C)   The BBC shall review, comment and make recommendations to the
Commissioner on individual institution’s policies, procedures, manuals and
programs adopted by such institution for the purpose of conforming with the
requirements of this Section and its permit.
   (D)   The BBC shall designate one of its members, other than the
Commissioner, to participate in site inspections carried out under this
Section.
   (E)   The BBC shall designate one or more of its members to participate in
public hearings held by the Board in the area of Recombinant DNA regulation or
permitting.
   (F)   The BBC shall review and make recommendations to the Commissioner and
the Board in regard to appropriate administrative action to be taken for
violations of this Section.
   (G)   The BBC shall make an annual report to the Board, the nature and
content of which shall be determined by the BBC, as to the status of RDNA
research, technology and production activities within the city and the
effectiveness of the regulatory system as established by this Section.
   (H)   The BBC shall meet at least six times per year but otherwise with
sufficient frequency to assure prompt and effective response to its duties and
responsibilities.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 3; CBC 1985 17-9.3)
17-9.4   Restrictions.
   (A)   RDNA use requiring containment defined by the “Guidelines” as “P4”
shall not be permitted in the city.
   (B)   There shall be no deliberate release into the environment of any
surviving organism containing recombinant DNA and any accidental release shall
be reported to the Commissioner immediately and in no case longer than 24
hours.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 4; CBC 1985 17-9.4) Penalty, see Subsection 17-9.6
17-9.5   Fees and Expenses.
   The Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to design, implement and
enforce a fee system which shall assure that activities carried out by the city
and the BBC in conformance with this Section are fully reimbursed by the
regulated institutions. Payment of such fee or fees shall be a further
condition of the granting or renewing of any permit.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 5; CBC 1985 17-9.5)
17-9.6   Penalties.
   (A)   Violation of the conditions of this Section shall subject the violator
to a fine of $200 per day. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
   (B)   Once a permit has been issued it may be revoked, suspended or modified
by the Commissioner, or not renewed by the Board, only upon a determination,
after due notice and hearing, that the institution involved has materially
failed to comply with this Section, the permit agreements or the “Guidelines”.
Notice and hearing procedures shall be those established by the Environmental
Health Inspection Services Division of the Department of Health and Hospitals.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the above, the Commissioner, upon a determination that
any violation constitutes an immediate and severe threat to the public health
and safety, may order the immediate closure of any premises or laboratory
engaging in or contributing to such threat, without prior notice and hearing
but otherwise with subsequent notice and hearing.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 6; CBC 1985 17-9.6)
17-9.7   Severability of Sections.
   If any Section, Subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 7; CBC 1985 17-9.7)
17-9.8   Term.
   This Section shall be in full force and effect until July 1, 1991 unless
sooner amended, repealed or extended. Nothing contained herein shall be
construed to limit the term or effectiveness of any regulations promulgated by
the Board of Health and Hospitals during or subsequent to such period.
(Ord. 1981 c.12 § 8; Ord. 1986 c. 9, §§ 1, 2; CBC 1985 17-9.8)
Editor’s note:
   Section 2 of Ord. 1986 c. 9 states “The remaining parts and portions of said
Chapter 12 of the Ordinances of 1981 are hereby continued and confirmed to the
end that the said ordinance shall be deemed to not have lapsed and to be and
remain continuously in force and effect until July 1, 1991 unless sooner
amended, repealed or extended”. Ord. 1991 c. 3 provides that Chapter 12 of
Ordinance 1981 shall be in full force and effect until January 1, 1993.
17-10   PERMITTING AND REGULATION OF MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS.
17-10.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Public Works of the city, or his or her
designee.
   COMMITTEE. The Commissioner, the Director of Food Initiatives and the
Departments, as defined.
   DEPARTMENTS. The Transportation Department, the Inspectional Services
Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department and the Assessing
Department, all of the city.   
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A business operation that stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends or otherwise provides food for human consumption as set forth in
the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code 105 CMR 590.002.
   MOBILE FOOD COMMISSARY. A licensed food establishment that a mobile food
truck reports to twice daily for all food and supplies and for all cleaning and
sanitizing of units and equipment.
   MOBILE FOOD TRUCK. A mobile food vehicle.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A food establishment that is located upon a vehicle, or
which is pulled by a vehicle, where food or beverage is cooked, prepared and
served for individual portion service, such as a mobile food kitchen; provided,
however, that a mobile food vehicle shall not be considered a food service
establishment for the purposes of Subsection 18-1.6(QQ).
(CBC 1985 17-10.1; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.2   Scope.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section shall apply to mobile food operations
engaged in the business of cooking, preparing and distributing food or beverage
with or without charge from mobile food trucks on or in public, private or
restricted spaces. This Section shall not apply to canteen, coffee or ice cream
trucks that move from place to place and are stationary in the same location
for no more than 30 minutes at a time or food vending push carts and stands.
   (B)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to mobile food
operations that receives a temporary event permit issued by the Public Works
Department.
(CBC 1985 17-10.2; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.3   Mobile Food Trucks Committee.
   (A)   There shall be within the city a Mobile Food Trucks Committee
consisting of the Public Works Department, the Transportation Department, the
Inspectional Services Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department,
the Director of Food Initiatives and the Assessing Department for the purpose
of reviewing applications for mobile food truck permits and establishing rules
and regulations as appropriate.
   (B)   The Committee may work with an industry-led task force in developing
acceptable routes of operation throughout the city and establishing industry
standards, such as the use of global positioning system (“GPS”) devices and
other matters.
   (C)   The Committee may work with applicants for mobile food truck permits
and renewals to encourage the following:
      (1)   Sustainable and environmentally friendly practices, including the
use of energy-efficient vehicles;
      (2)   Charitable components to the business of operation;
      (3)   School nutrition programs or healthy food choices;
      (4)    Programs for children or the homeless;
      (5)   Other socially responsible practices and programs;
      (6)   Routes that provide access to underserved neighborhoods of the
city; and
      (7)    The use of food commissaries within the city.
(CBC 1985 17-10.3; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.4   Mobile Food Truck Permit Required.
   (A)   No person or business entity, including a religious or charitable
organization, shall operate a mobile food truck in any public, private or
restricted space without a permit issued by the Committee.
   (B)   A mobile food truck permit is required for each and every mobile food
truck.
(CBC 1985 17-10.4; Ord. 2011 c.5)
17-10.5   Application for a Mobile Food Truck Permit.
   (A)   Single application. There shall be made available by the Commissioner
a single application form to apply for each mobile food truck permit. The
application shall provide the following:
      (1)   A description of necessary inspections and fees; and
      (2)   A description of areas of the city where the operation of mobile
food trucks are limited or prohibited.
   (B)   Submission of materials. Each application shall indicate on its face,
in addition to other requirements as may be determined by the Committee, that
the following materials must be submitted by the applicant:
      (1)   The name of the business and its owner or owners and the mailing
address of the business;
      (2)    A description of the proposed business plan for the mobile food
truck operation;
      (3)   A proposed service route and hours of operation with a detailed
schedule of times and locations where the mobile food truck will be stationary
and serving food;
      (4)   Certification that the vehicle has passed all necessary inspections
required by the Boston Fire Department and Department of Inspectional Services;
      (5)   Proof that the mobile food truck will be serviced by a mobile food
commissary;
      (6)   Proof of access to restroom facilities with flushable toilets and
access to hand washing facilities for the use of the mobile food truck
employees within 500 feet of each location where the mobile food truck will be
in operation for more than one hour in any single day; and
      (7)   A certificate of insurance providing general liability insurance
listing the city as additionally insured. A food truck permit shall be issued
only for the explicit time period covered by the effective dates of the general
liability insurance policy.
   (C)   Approval process. An application must be submitted to the Commissioner
of Public Works, who shall then forward the application to the Departments for
review. The application must receive the approval of each of the Departments,
based on duly published criteria established by the Committee, prior to its
final approval and the issuance of a permit by the Commissioner.
      (1)   The Committee may work with the applicant or permit holder to
modify a service route at any time:
         (a)   Before the issue of a permit; or
         (b)   After the issue of a permit, if the grant of a permit or
approval of a service route has led to the creation of a nuisance or otherwise
endanger the public health, safety or order or by request of the permit holder.
      (2)   Within 60 days of the submission of a completed application, the
Commissioner shall either issue or deny the application for a permit.
      (3)   If the application is denied in whole or in part, the Commissioner
shall state the specific reasons for the denial. Any applicant who has been
denied a permit may appeal such denial by submitting a written request for a
hearing to the Commissioner within ten days of denial. Such hearing shall be
conducted by the Commissioner, or his or her designee, within 30 days of
receipt of said appeal. The decision resulting therefrom shall be final and
subject only to judicial review under M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14.
(CBC 1985 17-10.5; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.6   Limitation on the Number of Permits.
   The Committee may, from time to time, set a limit on the number of total
permits that may be issued or renewed per year; provided, however, that no more
than 10% of total permits or five permits, whichever is greater, may be issued
to a single person or business entity or both. Upon receipt of application, the
Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall advise the applicant whether or not
the limitation has been met.
(CBC 1985 17-10.6; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.7   Permit Renewal.
   (A)   Every mobile food truck permit, unless suspended or revoked by the
Committee for a violation of any provision of this Section or other rule or
regulation promulgated for the implementation of this Section, shall be renewed
annually given that a renewal fee is paid within 30 days after its one-year
expiration, at which time the permit holder shall forfeit the right to renew
and the permit may be made available to another applicant for new permit if the
limitation on the number of permits has not been reached.
   (B)   The renewal of a permit does not also guarantee renewal of the
previously approved route. The Committee reserves the right to add, remove and
reapportion available locations among mobile food truck operations at renewal.
(CBC 1985 17-10.7; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.8   Rules and Regulations.
   (A)   General. The Committee members are hereby authorized to promulgate,
both jointly and within their respective Departments, additional rules and
regulations appropriate for the implementation of this Section, and, if
necessary, work with other Agencies and Departments of the city and
commonwealth to establish a streamlined process for the permitting of mobile
food trucks; provided, however, that such rules and regulations are not
inconsistent with the following limitations and restrictions.
      (1)   No operator of a mobile food truck shall park, stand or move a
vehicle and conduct business within areas of the city where the permit holder
has not been authorized to operate.
      (2)   No permit holder shall possess a permit for a mobile food truck
that is not in operation for a period of more than 14 days without duly
notifying and obtaining approval from the Commissioner.
      (3)   The issuance of a permit does not grant or entitle the exclusive
use of the service route, in whole or in part, to the mobile food truck permit
holder, other than the time and place as approved for the term of the permit.
      (4)   No mobile food truck shall provide or allow any dining area,
including, but not limited to, tables, chairs, booths, bar stools, benches and
standup counters, unless a proposal for such seating arrangements is submitted
with the permit application and approved by Committee.
      (5)   Consumers shall be provided with single service articles, such as
plastic forks and paper plates, and a waste container for their disposal. All
mobile food trucks shall offer a waste container for public use that the
operator shall empty at his or her own expense.
      (6)   The permit holder must keep an accurate log indicating that the
mobile food truck is serviced at least twice daily by a mobile food commissary
for all food, water and supplies and for all cleaning and servicing operations,
including the emptying and cleaning of waste containers.
      (7)   No mobile food truck shall make or cause to be made any
unreasonable or excessive noise in violation of Subsection 16-26.1.
      (8)   A mobile food truck may not operate on public property unless the
Commissioner and the Departments have otherwise granted approval on the permit
application for its operation at the particular location during specific times.
      (9)   All mobile food trucks must be equipped with a permanently mounted
global positioning system (“GPS”) device that meets rules and regulations
established by the Committee or its members.
      (10)   For mobile food trucks on public property, the city reserves the
right to temporarily move a mobile food truck to a nearby location if the
approved location needs to be used for emergency purposes, snow removal,
construction or other public benefit.
   (B)   Inspectional services. The Inspectional Services Department shall
ensure compliance with the commonwealth’s Sanitary Code 105 CMR 590.
   (C)   Fire Department. The Boston Fire Department shall promulgate rules and
regulations for the inspection of mobile food trucks and to ensure compliance
with all applicable federal, commonwealth and local fire safety statutes,
regulations ordinances and codes.
(CBC 1985 17-10.8; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.9   Permit Fees.
   (A)   Application fee. The application fee for a permit or a renewal of a
permit granted by the Committee for the operation of a mobile food truck shall
be $500.
   (B)   Annual fee. An annual fee shall be required for the issuance or
renewal of a mobile food truck permit based on a taxable market valuation of
city property by the Assessing Department, including sidewalks, from which
mobile food trucks will stand according to a route of operation submitted with
an application for a mobile food truck permit. Nothing in this Section shall
prohibit the Committee from designating zones throughout the city for the
purposes of establishing fees and rates.
(CBC 1985 17-10.9; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.10   Prohibition Against the Transfer of a Permit.
   (A)   Transfers for value prohibited. No person holding a permit for a
mobile food truck shall sell, lend, lease or in any manner transfer a mobile
food truck permit for value.
   (B)   Nonvalue transfers as part of the sale of a business. Notwithstanding
division (A) above, a permit holder may transfer a permit as part of the sale
of a majority of the stock in a corporation holding such permit, as part of the
sale of a majority of the membership interests of a limited liability company
holding such permit, or as part of the sale of a business or substantially all
of its assets; provided that there shall be no allocated or actual value for
the transfer of the permit.
      (1)   Prior to any such transfer, the transferor shall notify the
Committee in writing and the transferee shall submit a food truck permit
application for approval to the Committee pursuant to the process set forth in
Subsection 17-10.5 and any additional rules and regulations promulgated by the
Committee.
      (2)   Any such transfer shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
the original permit.
   (C)   Unauthorized transfer voids permit. Any unauthorized transfer or
attempt to transfer a permit shall automatically void such permit. Whoever
violates this provision, including both the transferor and transferee, shall be
subject to a fine of $300, pursuant to Subsection 17-10.12(A). The unauthorized
transfer or attempt to transfer of each permit shall constitute a separate
violation.
(CBC 1985 17-10.10; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.11   Operation of Mobile Food Trucks.
   (A)   Operation without permit. Any mobile food truck being operated without
a valid mobile food truck permit issued by the Commissioner shall be deemed a
public safety hazard and may be ticketed and impounded.
   (B)   Unattended vehicles prohibited. No mobile food truck shall be parked
on the street overnight, or left unattended and unsecured at any time food is
kept in the mobile food truck. Any mobile food truck which is found to be
unattended shall be considered a public safety hazard and may be ticketed and
impounded.
   (C)   A mobile food truck operating outside of an approved route, at an
unauthorized location or beyond the hours for which the operation has been
permitted shall be deemed operating without a permit in violation of this
Section and may be subject to enforcement under Subsection 17-10.12.
(CBC 1985 17-10.11; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.12   Enforcement.
   (A)   Fine for violation. Any permit holder operating a mobile food truck or
service in violation of any provision of this Section or any rules and
regulations promulgated by the Committee may be subject to a fine of $300 per
day. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
The provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D may be used to enforce this
Section.
   (B)   Revocation, suspension, modification. Once a permit has been issued it
may be revoked, suspended, modified or not renewed by the Commissioner for
failure to comply with the provisions of this Section or any rules and
regulations promulgated by the Committee.
      (1)   No permit shall be revoked, suspended, modified or not renewed
without a hearing before the Commissioner, or his or her designee, prior to
which hearing the Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall give reasonable
notice of the time and place of the hearing and the specific grounds of the
proposed action. The decision resulting therefrom shall be final and subject
only to judicial review under M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 14.
      (2)   The Commissioner, or his or her designee, may suspend a permit for
no more than three days without a notice or hearing, pursuant to division (B)
(1) above, if the Commissioner, or his or her designee, specifically notifies
the permit holder in writing that there is a probability of violation of public
safety, health or order. In such a case, a hearing shall be held before the
Commissioner, or his or her designee, within 48 hours of the suspension in
order to determine whether the public safety, health or order concern justified
the suspension.
   (C)   Removal. Any permit holder found in violation of this Section or any
rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee may be issued a ticket for
violation and the mobile food vehicle may be impounded.
   (D)   Enforcement. The provisions of this Section or any rules and
regulations promulgated by the Committee may be enforced jointly by the Boston
Police Department and the Boston Transportation Department.
(CBC 1985 17-10.12; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-10.13   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 17-10.13; Ord. 2011 c. 5)
17-11   RESERVED.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 §§ 1-12; CBC 1985 17-11; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28)
17-12   SAFETY CONTROL MEASURES IN EVENT OF GAS LEAK OR OTHER EMERGENCIES.
17-12.1   Control Measures Required for Emergency Situations.
   Public utilities or licensed companies maintaining within the city
pipelines, conduits, wires or any other system for transmission of natural gas,
fuels, water, sewerage, electricity, acids or dangerous substances shall
provide control measures to isolate districts or neighborhoods in event of
emergency threatening to spread to other districts.
(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 1; CBC 1985 17-12.1) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-12.2   Safety Release Discharge Mechanism.
   Gas transmission pipeline systems operating in the city shall, on or before
June 30, 1984, in addition to any other control or regulator devices, be
equipped with a safety relief discharge mechanism for immediate relief of gas
pressures exceeding prescribed tolerances in a district, neighborhood or
community.
(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 2; CBC 1985 17-12.2) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-12.3   Testing of Water and Sewer Lines; Monitoring of Pipeline Flow.
   The Boston Water and Sewer Commission shall survey by means of recognized
testing devices all major water lines and sewer lines for evidence of leakage
at least semi-annually. The Commission shall also utilize available
computerization systems for constant monitoring of pipeline flows.
(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 3; CBC 1985 17-12.3) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-12.4   Enforcement.
   The Public Safety Commission of the city shall enforce provisions of this
Section and shall, after public hearing, adopt any regulations necessary to
this purpose.
(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 4; CBC 1985 17-12.4)
17-13   THEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS AND PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS.
17-13.1   Application for License.
   The Mayor may, unless otherwise prohibited by law, grant a license for
theatrical exhibitions, public shows, public amusements and exhibitions of
every description, to be held upon weekdays only, to which admission is
obtained upon payment of money or upon the delivery of any valuable thing, or
in which, after free admission, amusement is furnished upon deposit of money in
coin-controlled apparatus. The application for such license must be in writing
and fully and specifically describe the conditions of the proposed exhibition,
show or amusement and the premises upon which the proposed exhibition, show or
amusement is to take place, to the extent that such conditions or premises
would affect the public safety, health or order. Upon written request of the
Mayor, the applicant shall, in addition to such description, furnish reasonable
information concerning the condition of the premises and actions to be taken in
order to prevent danger to the public safety, health or order.
(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 426; CBC 1985 17-13.1)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.8
17-13.2   Time Limit for Acting on Application.
   The Mayor shall act upon every application for a license or renewal of a
license within 30 days next following the date of the filing of said
application; and if he or she shall fail to act upon any application within the
30 days next following the date thereof or such other time as may be prescribed
by law, he or she shall forthwith upon demand of the applicant issue or renew
such license, unless he or she shall have determined that a hearing should be
held to consider whether the application should be denied under Subsection 17-
13.3 and within such 30-day period shall have given the notice specified in
said Subsection.
(Ord. 1973 c. 9; Ord. 1978 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 427; CBC 1985 17-13.2)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.8
17-13.3   Issuance of Licenses.
   (A)   The Mayor shall grant a license applied for under Subsection 17-13.1,
unless he or she specifically finds, after a hearing preceded by at least ten
days written notice to the applicant and to the persons specified in City of
Boston Code, St. 14, Section 4 and states in writing within 45 days next
following the close of such hearing that the granting of the license at the
premises would lead to or cause an offense under any applicable law, code or
ordinance; or would lead to the creation of a nuisance or otherwise endanger
the public health, safety or order by:
      (1)   Unreasonably increasing pedestrians or vehicular traffic in the
area in which the premises are located;
      (2)   Increasing the incidence of illegal or disruptive conduct in the
area in which the premises are located;
      (3)   Unreasonably increasing the level of noise in the area in which the
premises are located; or
      (4)   Otherwise significantly harming the legitimate protectable
interests of the affected citizens of the city.
   (B)   No application shall be denied if the anticipated harm is not
significant or if the likelihood of its occurrence is remote.
   (C)   The Mayor may impose conditions upon a license but said conditions may
only relate to compliance with applicable laws or ordinances, or to public
safety, health or order, or to steps required to be taken to guard against
creation of a nuisance or to ensure adequate safety and security for patrons of
the affected public.
(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 428; Ord. 1978 c. 9; CBC 1985 17-13.3)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.8
17-13.4   Suspension of License.
   No license shall be revoked or suspended without a hearing before the Mayor,
or his or her designate, prior to which hearing the Mayor, or his or her
designate, shall give reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing
and the specific grounds of the proposed revocation or suspension; provided
that the Mayor may suspend a license for no more than three days without such
notice or hearing if the Mayor specifically notifies the license holder in
writing there is a probability of violation of public safety, health or order
without such suspension. In such a case a hearing shall be held within 48 hours
of said suspension in order to determine whether the public safety, health or
order justified such suspension.
(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 429; CBC 1985 17-13.4)
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-7.8
17-13.5   Fine for Violation.
   Whoever offers to view, sets up, sets on foot, maintains, carries on or
otherwise assists in or promotes any such exhibition, show or amusement without
a license shall be subject to a fine of $50 for each day on which such
violation occurs or during which said violation continues.
(Ord. 1973 cs. 9, 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 430; CBC 1985 17-13.5)
17-13.6   Prohibiting Entertainment During Certain Hours.
   (A)   No person shall between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., in any
club, theater, restaurant, retail store or in any other place of business or
place of public assembly, offer, provide, perform, set up or suffer another to
offer, provide, perform or set up, any entertainment or music, live, recorded
or mechanical, including, but not limited to, entertainment or music provided
by means of a radio, television, tape recorder, phonograph or projector, except
that the showing of a motion picture commenced prior to 12:30 a.m., may
continue uninterrupted until its conclusion provided that the same is concluded
prior to 3:00 a.m.
   (B)   Whoever violates this Subsection shall be punished by a fine of $200
for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1979 c. 4; CBC 1985 17-13.6)
17-13.7   Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Diseases.
   (A)   Declaration of public health emergency. The spread of sexually
transmitted diseases (“STDs”), including acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(“AIDS”) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (“HIV”) infection, has created a
public health emergency. The spread of these diseases can be limited through
the availability of affordable, high quality latex condoms in certain places of
public accommodation. The lack of availability of condoms in these places of
public accommodation constitutes a danger to public health and welfare.
   (B)   Requirement of vending machines which dispense condoms.
      (1)   In order to be granted an annual seven-day entertainment license
from the Licensing Division of the Mayor’s Office of Consumer Affairs and
Licensing, establishments which also hold a common victuallers seven-day all
alcohol license must install and maintain coin-operated vending machines which
dispense affordable, high quality latex condoms. Current holders of annual
seven-day entertainment licenses from the Licensing Division of the Mayor’s
Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing which also hold a common victuallers
seven-day all alcohol license must install and maintain coin-operated vending
machines which dispense affordable, high quality latex condoms in order to
continue to be licensed.
      (2)   The condom vending machines shall be located in a publicly
accessible place, or in at least one male and one female restroom, and shall
display a sticker prepared by the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, which
will provide telephone numbers for referral and information concerning STDs,
including AIDS.
      (3)   For the purposes of this Subsection, a HIGH QUALITY LATEX CONDOM
means a condom which is made of latex, a specific type of rubber product that
has no pores, and which is tested and approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
   (C)   List of vending machine operators. The Licensing Division of the
Mayor’s Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing and the Commissioner of Health
and Hospitals shall maintain a list of vending machine operators who agree to
install and maintain the vending machines in continuous working order at no
cost to the owners or lessees of the licensed premises.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license holder whose establishment is not required to have a
restroom.
      (2)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license holder whose establishment has a legal maximum occupancy
of less than 100 persons.
      (3)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license which is held by a religious institution or an
organization affiliated with a particular religion.
      (4)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license holder whose establishment is required to obtain the
license solely due to the use of automatic amusement devices on the premises.
      (5)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license holder who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Licensing Division of the Mayor’s Office of Consumer Affairs that, despite the
holder’s good faith efforts, no vending machine operator is willing to install
a condom vending machine on the licensed premises.
      (6)   This Subsection shall not apply to any annual seven-day
entertainment license holder who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Licensing Division of the Mayor’s Office of Consumer Affairs that high quality
latex condoms and information concerning STDs, including AIDS, are readily
available to patrons on the licensed premises.
   (E)   Annual report to the Boston City Council. The Licensing Division of
the Mayor’s Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing shall determine whether
holders of annual seven-day entertainment licenses comply with this Subsection,
and shall report its findings annually to the Boston City Council for any
necessary action.
   (F)   Severability. The provisions of this Subsection are severable and if
any provision shall be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction then such provision shall be considered
separately and apart from the remaining provisions of this Subsection which
shall remain in full force and effect.
(CBC 1985 17-13.7; Ord. 1992 c. 12 §§ 1-6) Penalty, see Subsection 16-32.1
17-14   TRANSIENT VENDORS.
17-14.1   Licenses for Vendors.
   Every transient vendor, whether principal or agent, authorized by
commonwealth license to do business in this commonwealth, before making any
sales of goods, wares and merchandise in the city, shall make application for a
local license to the City Clerk, stating the names, residences and places of
business of the owners or parties in whose interest said business is conducted,
and shall at the same time file with the City Clerk a true statement, under
oath, of the average quantity and value of the stock of goods, wares and
merchandise kept or intended to be kept or exposed by him or her for sale. The
City Clerk shall submit said statement to the Commissioner of Assessing who
shall forthwith make an examination and valuation of such goods, wares and
merchandise and transmit a certificate thereof to the City Clerk.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 418; CBC 1985 17-
14.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-14.5
Cross-reference:
   Ord. ss 2-10.1; Ord. ss 6-2.1
17-14.2   Issuance of Licenses; Bond to City.
   Upon the payment of the fee prescribed by Subsection 18-1.20(L), the City
Clerk shall issue to the transient vendor a license authorizing the sale of
such goods, wares and merchandise within the city. Such license shall remain in
force so long as the licensee shall continuously keep and expose for sale in
the city such stock of goods, wares and merchandise, but not later than January
1 following its date of issuance. Every transient vendor licensed under this
Section shall also execute a bond to the city in the sum of $500 with two
sufficient sureties, conditioned for faithful observance of this Section.
(St. 1933 c. 254 § 64; Ord.1956 c. 7 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 20; CBC 1975
Ord. T14 § 419; CBC 1985 17-14.2) Penalty, see Subsection 17-14.5
17-14.3   Display of License.
   Every transient vendor who is granted a license under the provisions of this
Section shall exhibit the same at all times, while in force, in some
conspicuous part of the place of business for which it is issued.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 21; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 420; CBC 1985 17-14.3) Penalty,
see Subsection 17-14.5
17-14.4   Definition.
   The term TRANSIENT VENDOR for the purposes of this Section shall be the same
as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 101, Sections 1 and 2 and acts in amendment
thereof and addition thereto.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 22; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 421; CBC 1985 17-14.4)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 101, Sections 1 and 2
17-14.5   Penalties for Violation.
   Any person, association or corporation who shall engage in the business of a
transient vendor, as herein defined, without having secured a license for that
purpose as provided in this Section, or who neglects or refuses to file the
statement described in Subsection 17-14.1, or who makes a false or fraudulent
representation in said statement, or who, having secured such license, shall
thereafter fail to pay the sum required herein, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of $20 for
each day during which such goods, wares or merchandise are kept or exposed for
sale.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 23; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 422; CBC 1985 17-14.5)
17-15   TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY MOTOR VEHICLE; REGULATIONS.
17-15.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARRIER. A person engaged in the business of transporting hazardous
materials on streets and highways by motor vehicles; if the motor vehicle is
leased, the lessee is the carrier.
   CITY. The City of Boston.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. The following are designated hazardous materials for
the purpose of this Section:
      (1)   Class A Explosives (173.53): Numbers in parentheses refer to 49
C.F.R.;
      (2)   Class B Explosives: (173.88);
      (3)   Poisonous gases: Poison A (173.326);
      (4)   Flammable solid: (172.101);
      (5)   Radioactive materials with Radioactive Yellow III: label (172.403),
excluding USA DOT – 7AX Type A radioactive materials that are intended for use
in, or incident to, research or medical diagnosis, or treatment;
      (6)   Liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”);
      (7)   Liquefied natural gas (“LNG”);
      (8)   Liquefied hydrogen: (173.316); and
      (9)   Flammable liquids with flash points 73°F or less, in gross
quantities of 1,000 pounds or more.
   OPERATE. To engage in the transport of hazardous materials in commerce on
the streets and highways by motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, society,
association, joint venture or other legal entity.
   VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used for the transportation of hazardous materials
in commerce.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 1; CBC 1985 17-15.1)
17-15.2   Regulations Established.
   The Fire Commissioner and Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall
promulgate joint regulations under the authority of M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
9 and M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 122 and this Section and not inconsistent
with such authority or regulations issued thereunder. A hearing shall be
provided as required by law. Such regulations shall require, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (A)   Adopt the commonwealth’s Department of Public Works regulation 720 CMR
8 to ensure the application of those regulations to city streets;
   (B)   Prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials within designated
parts of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays excluded. Drivers may operate their vehicles in the
designated areas of the city during these restricted hours only if they obtain
a permit from the Fire Commissioner to do so;
   (C)   Prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials excluding flammable
fluids within the city if there is neither a point of origin nor a destination
(delivery point) within the city and if a practical alternative route exists
from origin to destination outside the city. Economic criteria shall not be
determinative of whether or not an alternative route is practical. If a
practical alternative route does not exist as determined by the Fire
Commissioner, he or she shall designate appropriate routes within the city;
   (D)   Designate routes within the city on which carriers may operate their
vehicles. These routes shall not go through or near heavily populated areas,
places where crowds are assembled, tunnels, narrow streets or alleys, unless no
reasonable alternatives exist;
   (E)   Require carriers to obtain permits to operate in unrestricted parts of
the city where, in the discretion of the Fire Commissioner and due to the
nature of the hazardous materials and/or the routes and parts of the city
involved, special precautions are considered necessary;
   (F)   Regulate the operation of all vehicles within the city. This
regulation may extend to, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The speed at which vehicles may operate in the city;
      (2)   Vehicles stopping within the city;
      (3)   The degree to which a driver may leave a vehicle unattended;
      (4)   The distance that must be maintained between vehicles in transit;
      (5)   A requirement that vehicles be equipped with radio communications;
      (6)   A requirement that vehicles be provided with adequate illumination
and warning lights; and
      (7)   Requirement that vehicles be placarded “HAZARDOUS CARGO” with
identification of that specific hazardous material.
   (G)   (1)   Require all carriers to report to the Fire Department every
accident within the city involving that carrier’s vehicle which results in any
of the following:
         (a)   Injury or fatality;
         (b)   Continuing danger to life or health at the scene of the
accident;
         (c)   The disabling of the vehicle;
         (d)   Estimated property damage exceeding $100; and
         (e)   An unintentional release of hazardous material from the vehicle.
      (2)   The carrier shall report the accident to the Fire Department:
         (a)   By phone or in person immediately after the occurrence of the
accident; and
         (b)   In writing within ten days following the accident on a form to
be furnished by the Fire Commissioner.
   (H)   Establish a permit system which requires the following:
      (1)   That any carriers who wish to operate their vehicles in a manner
inconsistent with this Section and/or regulations hereunder be required to
obtain a permit from the Fire Commissioner;
      (2)   That a permit be issued only where compelling need is shown and
where transporting hazardous materials is in the public interest;
      (3)   That permits be granted for a period of one year and be
automatically renewed upon application unless revoked for cause after a hearing
before the Traffic and Parking Commission;
      (4)   That permits be revocable and not transferable;
      (5)   That permits be carried in the cab at all times and that a suitable
means be used to allow ready identification of carriers with permits from
outside the vehicle; and
      (6)   That annual fees for permits be set as required to defray
administrative expenses and as permitted by law.
   (I)   The Fire Commissioners and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals
shall have the authority to promulgate all regulations necessary to give full
effect to the provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 2; CBC 1985 17-15.2) Penalty, see Subsection 17-15.8
17-15.3   Suspension of Operations.
   The Fire Commissioner may temporarily suspend the operation of some or all
vehicles within the city, without notice whenever road, weather, traffic or
other special circumstances warrant that action.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 3; CBC 1985 17-15.3)
17-15.4   Authority to Restrict Other Hazardous Materials.
   The Fire Commissioner and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall
have the authority to promulgate regulations controlling the transportation of
the following hazardous materials within the city:
   (A)   Oxidizers: (173.151);
   (B)   Organic peroxide: (173.151a);
   (C)   Flammable, pyrophoric and combustible materials: (173.115);
   (D)   Radioactive materials with Radioactive White I or Yellow 11 label:
(172.403); and
   (E)   Certain hazardous materials which have been identified as posing more
than one hazard, for example, uranium hexafloride which is corrosive and
radioactive.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 4; CBC 1985 17-15.4)
17-15.5   Authority to Suspend Restriction.
   The Commissioner shall have the authority to suspend the aforementioned
restrictions, in whole or in part, when extenuating circumstances severely
limit transit around the city.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 5; CBC 1985 17-15.5)
17-15.6   Delivery of Gasoline and Home Heating Oil.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed as prohibiting or interfering
with the delivery of home heating oil or gasoline within the city.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 6; CBC 1985 17-15.6)
17-15.7   Reports.
   The Fire Commissioner shall compile and submit to the Boston City Council,
by February 1 of each year, a written report describing the administration and
enforcement of this Section, and the regulations issued hereunder, in the
calendar year just concluded. This report shall include:
   (A)   A list of permits issued, expired and renewed;
   (B)   A list of accidents reported pursuant to Subsection 7-15.2a,7;
   (C)   A list of all noted violations of this Section; and
   (D)   Other information the Commissioner considers pertinent.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 7; CBC 1985 17-15.7)
17-15.8   Violations.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Section and/or regulations
promulgated hereunder shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 in
accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10B.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 8; CBC 1985 17-15.8)
17-15.9   Severability.
   If any provision or clause of this Section or application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this Section which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
Section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 9; CBC 1985 17-15.9)
17-15.10   Fees, Rules and Effective Dates.
   (A)   The Fire Commissioner and the Commissioner of Health and Hospital
shall establish a fee structure to cover the administrative costs of this
Section.
   (B)   To satisfy the requirement of publications, the Fire Commissioner
shall hold public hearings to provide affected parties with the details of the
regulations promulgated under this Section.
   (C)   The effective date of regulations promulgated under this Section shall
be 90 days after the completion of said public hearings.
(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 10; CBC 1985 17-15.10)
Cross-reference:
   Transportation of Hazardous Materials by Rail; Prior Notification of Fire
Commissioner, Section 17-16
17-16   TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY RAIL; NOTIFICATION OF FIRE
COMMISSIONER.
17-16.1   Notification of Fire Commissioner; Time Required.
   Within a reasonable time, but at least five hours prior to the rail shipment
into or within the city of any hazardous materials, as defined in Subsection
17-15.1, the operator of the rail carrier shall notify the Fire Commissioner of
the content, amount, route and destination point, if within the city, of said
shipment. In cases where it is impossible to notify the Fire Commissioner
within the time required, said operator may apply to the Fire Commissioner for
a waiver of said requirement and said waiver may be granted if the Fire
Commissioner is satisfied that the public health and safety would not be
endangered.
(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 1; CBC 1985 17-16.1) Penalty, see Subsection 17-16.3
17-16.2   Fire Commissioner’s Procedures.
   The Fire Commissioner shall record and compile such information in order to
ensure adequate response in case of an accident involving a hazardous material.
The Commissioner shall notify the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals of any
shipment whose spillage or other accident would require an emergency response
by the Department of Health and Hospitals. No person shall disclose to a
competitor or any person except as necessary to enforce this Section,
information involved in a business transaction about the nature, kind,
quantity, destination, consignee or routing of said shipment if that
information may be used to the detriment of the shipper or consignee as
provided in 49 U.S.C. § 11904.
(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 2; CBC 1985 17-16.2) Penalty, see Subsection 17-16.3
17-16.3   Violations; Penalty.
   Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 3; CBC 1985 17-16.3)
17-17   PRUDENTIAL AFFAIRS AND INTERNAL POLICE; REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN ARMED
SECURITY GUARDS AND LICENSURE AS SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS OPERATING IN A PUBLIC
PLACE.
   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 and in order to preserve the peace
and good order in the city in public places so as to protect the public safety
and maintain the discipline of the internal Police, the Police Commissioner is
hereby authorized to require private armed security guards or watchmen who
operate openly in the presence of the general public in a public place to
register as herein provided and to obtain licensure as a special Police
Officer; the Police Commissioner is further authorized to require businesses
employing such armed guards or watchmen operating openly in the presence of the
general public in public places to register as provided in this Section.
(CBC 1985 17-17; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.1   Armed Security Guard or Watchmen Registration.
   (A)   Any person employed in the city as a private security guard or
watchman armed with a firearm whose services are performed openly in the
presence of the general public in a public place as defined in Subsection 17-
17.2, shall register with the Boston Police Commissioner by submitting
supporting documentation:
      (1)   To demonstrate that such person holds a license to carry a firearm
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 131; and, where applicable;
      (2)   To demonstrate that such person is an employee of a licensee
authorized to engage in such business pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 147, Sections
22—30; and
      (3)   To identify the location of the public place(s) where such person
is or will be assigned or employed as an armed security guard or watchman in
Boston.
   (B)   For purposes of this Section only, the term ARMED shall have the
meaning as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 121.
(CBC 1985 17-17.1; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.2   Definition of Public Place.
   For the purposes of this Section, a PUBLIC PLACE shall be substantially the
same as that defined in M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 92A and shall be deemed to
include any place which is open to and accepts or solicits the patronage of the
general public such as a retail store or establishment, including those
dispensing personal services. For the purposes of this Section only, PUBLIC
PLACE shall not include places of entertainment or recreation, restaurants or
bars or any public entity whether federal, commonwealth, municipal or any
political subdivision of the commonwealth; nor shall public place include any
entity or institution whose armed security guards or watchmen are employed in
the capacity of commonwealth-licensed Special Police Officers pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 22C, Sections 51—68.
(CBC 1985 17-17.2; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.3   Business Registration.
   Any private entity in the city conducting business within a public place
that hires a private armed security guard whose assignment for any duration is
to guard persons or property in such a public place openly in the presence of
the general public as described in Subsection 17-17.7 shall register all
required information as provided for by such rules or regulations promulgated,
from time to time, by the Police Commissioner pursuant to this Section.
However, such registration requirement may be delegated by contract to any
person licensed under M.G.L. Chapter 147, Section 25. A copy of the delegation
shall be submitted to the Police Commissioner.
(CBC 1985 17-17.3; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.4   Employment.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOY or HIRE. Assigned or employed directly or indirectly by such business
whether part-time, temporary or on a permanent basis regardless of whether the
guard is an employee of such business or is employed by a contractor engaged in
offering armed security guard services as permitted in M.G.L. Chapter 147,
Section 22-30.
(CBC 1985 17-17.4; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.5   Armed Security Guards or Watchmen Licensed as Special Police
Officers.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 and in order to preserve the
peace and good order in such public places so as to protect the public safety
and maintain the discipline of the internal Police, the Police Commissioner is
hereby authorized to require private armed security guards or watchmen employed
or assigned in the city openly and in the presence of the general public as
described in Subsection 17-17.6, to be licensed by the Police Commissioner as a
special Police Officer. This requirement for licensure as a Special Police
Officer by the Police Commissioner shall not apply to armed security guards who
are employed in the capacity of a commonwealth-licensed Special Police Officers
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 22C, Sections 51—68, or those otherwise exempted by
Subsection 17-17.2.
   (B)   On the application of any individual that the Police Commissioner may
deem suitable for licensure as a Special Police Officer, such individual shall
serve without pay from the city, and the corporation or person employing such
individual as a Special Police Officer under this Section shall be liable for
the official misconduct of the Officer licensed on such application, as for the
torts of any servant or Agent in the employ of such corporation or person.
   (C)   A Special Police Officer shall have the power of Police Officers to
preserve order and to enforce the laws and ordinances of the city, in and about
any public place as defined in Subsection 17-17.2, for which he or she is hired
as an armed security guard or watchman to serve openly in the presence of the
public as described in Subsection 17-17.7.
(CBC 1985 17-17.5; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.6   Renewal and Revocation of Special Police Officer License.
   A Special Police Officer licensed under the provisions of this Section shall
seek renewal of such license annually. The Police Commissioner may annually
renew and may at any time for cause, after notice and a hearing, revoke any
such license. An application for a renewal shall be on a form furnished by the
Commissioner.
(CBC 1985 17-1.6; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.7   Covered Armed Security Guard or Watchman.
   This Section shall apply only to private armed security guards or watchmen
whose assignment is to guard persons or property openly in the presence of the
general public in a public place and who are not otherwise exempt under this
Section.
(CBC 1985 17-17.7; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.8   Regulatory Authority; Enforcement and Fees.
   The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules
and regulations necessary to implement and enforce this Section pursuant to
M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D. Pursuant to St. 1949, c. 222, the Police
Commissioner may charge an appropriate fee for such services attendant to the
registration and licensure process.
(CBC 1985 17-17.8; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.9   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section shall be held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 17-17.9 Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.10   Implementation.
   The provisions of this Section regarding registration of businesses and
armed security guards shall become effective within 180 days after passage;
however, the provisions of Subsection 17-17.5 regarding licensure as special
Police Officers for armed security guards shall become effective 30 days after
the Police Commissioner promulgates regulations consistent with this Section.
(CBC 1985 17-17.10; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
17-17.11   Fines.
   Any person serving as a private armed security guard or watchman within the
city without the registration required in Subsection 17-17.1 shall be fined in
the amount of $300 for each week the Officer fails to obtain the proper
registration. Any business which hires an armed security guard or watchman who
has not registered as required in Subsection 17-17.1, or if such business fails
to register the required information in accordance with Subsection 17-17.3
herein described, shall be fined in the amount of $300 for each week the
business fails to register.
(CBC 1985 17-17.11; Ord. 2010 c. 1)
Editor’s note:
   Former Section 17-17, Registration of Bicycle Messenger Services and
Licensing of Commercial Messengers, previously codified herein and containing
portion of Ordinance 1991 c. 7 and was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance
1999 c. 4. This Section has been superceded by Chapter 302 of the Acts and
Resolves of 1998, “An act providing for registration of bicycle messenger
services and licensing of commercial messengers in the city”.
17-18   REGULATING THE PRACTICE OF BRINGING THEIR OWN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ONTO
THE PREMISES.
17-18.1   Bringing Own Alcoholic Beverages onto the Premises.
   (A)   The provisions of this Section apply to businesses that do not have a
liquor license in the city and who hold a Common Victualler’s license, as
authorized by M.G.L. Chapter 140, issued by the Boston Licensing Board.
   (B)   All common victualler’s licensees that choose to allow patrons to
bring their own alcoholic beverages onto the premises, a practice known as
“bring your own bottle” or “BYOB”, shall be subject to the regulations
promulgated by the Licensing Board for the city.
   (C)   The Licensing Board for the city shall have the authority to enforce
the provisions of this Section and shall promulgate regulations that will allow
patrons to bring their own alcoholic beverages onto the premises. The Board
shall file the regulations and any amendments thereof with the Office of the
City Clerk. The Clerk shall include the regulations on the agenda of the next
occurring meeting of the Boston City Council.
(CBC 1985 17-18.1; Ord. 2015 c. 12 § 1)
17-19   REGULATING ACOUSTIC LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
17-19.1   Acoustic Live Entertainment.
   (A)   (1)   Any business located in the business districts of the city may
hold acoustic performances within the perimeter of their business without
obtaining a live entertainment license or change of occupancy provided they are
compliant with the following requirements:
         (a)   The business is registered with the Office of the City Clerk and
obtained a business license;
         (b)   There are no more than five acoustic performers and/or musicians
at a single venue at one time;
         (c)   Performances are limited to the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.;
         (d)   There is no amplification of sound except for one microphone;
         (e)   No food or beverage service unless the business is a licensed
food establishment or bar; and
         (f)   The business maintains handicap accessibility during
performances.
      (2)   Businesses offering such acoustic performances as described herein
remain subject to any other existing requirements such as statutes, including
the requirements of M.G.L. Chapters 138 and 140 if applicable; as well as any
other ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, licenses, certificates, permits
and other applicable requirements.
   (B)   The Boston Police Department shall be authorized to issue violations
and/or fines for any businesses found not in compliance with division (A)
above.
(CBC 1985 17-19.1; Ord. 2016 c. 19; Ord. 2017 c. 8 § 1)
17-20   REDUCTION OF CHECKOUT BAGS BY RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS.
17-20.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to reduce the use of disposable checkout bags
by retail establishments in the city, curb litter on the streets, protect
marine environment, waterways, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and solid waste,
and to promote the use of reusable bags by retail establishments located in the
city.
(Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHECKOUT BAG. A carryout bag with handles provided by a retail establishment
to a customer at the point of sale. CHECKOUT BAGS shall not include:
      (1)   Bags, whether plastic or not, in which loose produce or products
are placed by a consumer to deliver such items to the point of sale or check-
out area of a retail establishment;
      (2)   Laundry or dry-cleaner bags;
      (3)   Newspaper bags; or
      (4)   Bags used to contain or wrap produce, frozen foods, meat or fish,
whether prepackaged or not, to prevent or contain moisture.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Environment, Energy and Open Space, or his or her
designee.
   COMPOSTABLE PLASTIC BAG. A plastic bag that:
      (1)   Conforms to the current ASTM D6400;
      (2)   Is certified and labeled as meeting the ASTM D6400 standard
specification by a recognized verification entity; and
      (3)   Must be capable of undergoing biological decomposition in a compost
site such that the material breaks down into carbon dioxide, water, inorganic
compounds and biomass at a rate consistent with known compostable materials.
   CITY. The City of Boston and its legal limits and all rights of access and
easements in and licenses to use land areas outside of its legal limits as to
which it has the right or obligation to maintain.
   RECYCLABLE PAPER BAG. A paper bag that is:
      (1)   One hundred percent recyclable;
      (2)   Contains at least 40% post-consumer recycled paper content; and
      (3)   Displays the words “recyclable” and “made from 40% post-consumer
recycled content” (or other applicable amount) in a visible manner on the
outside of the bag.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any person, corporation, partnership, business venture
or vendor that sell or provide merchandise, goods or materials directly to a
customer, whether for or not for profit, including, but not limited to,
restaurants, pharmacies, convenience and grocery stores, liquor stores,
seasonal and temporary businesses, jewelry stores and household goods stores;
however, the term RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT does not include bazaars or festivals
operated by nonprofit organizations or religious institutions.
   REUSABLE BAG. A bag with handles that is specifically designed and
manufactured for multiple reuse and is either polyester, polypropylene, cotton
or other durable material, or durable plastic that is at least 3.0 mils in
thickness.
(CBC 1985 17-20.2; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.3   Requirements.
   (A)   If any retail establishment provides a checkout bag to customers, the
bag shall comply with the requirements of being a reusable bag, a recyclable
paper bag or a compostable plastic bag.
   (B)   A retail establishment that provides any type of checkout bag shall
sell them for no less than $0.05 per bag. All moneys collected pursuant to this
Section shall be retained by the retail establishment.
   (C)   Any charge for a checkout bag shall be separately stated on a receipt
provided to the customer at the time of sale and shall be identified as the
“checkout bag charge” thereon.
   (D)   The Chief of Environment, Energy and Open Space may promulgate rules
and regulations to implement this Section.
(CBC 1985 17-20.3; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.4   Enforcement.
   (A)   If it is determined that a violation has occurred the Office of
Environment, Energy and Open Space shall issue a warning notice to the retail
establishment for the initial violation.
   (B)   If an additional violation of this Section has occurred within one
year after a warning notice has been issued for an initial violation, the Chief
shall issue a notice of violation and shall impose a penalty against the retail
establishment.
   (C)   The penalty for each violation that occurs after the issuance of the
warning notice shall be no more than:
      (1)   Fifty dollars for the first offense; and
      (2)   One hundred dollars for the second offense and all subsequent
offenses. Payment of such fines may be enforced through civil action in the
commonwealth District Court.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this Section may be penalized by a
noncriminal disposition as provided in M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D. For
purposes of this Section, the Chief of Environment, Energy and Open Space, or
his or her designee, shall be the enforcing person.
(CBC 1985 17-20.4; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.5   Exemption.
   (A)   The Chief may exempt a retail establishment from the requirements of
this chapter for a period of one year upon a finding by the Chief that the
requirements of this chapter would cause undue hardship to a retail
establishment. An “undue hardship” shall be found only in:
      (1)   Circumstances or situations unique to the particular retail
establishment such that there are no reasonable alternatives to bags that are
not recyclable paper bags, compostable plastic bags or reusable bags;
      (2)   Circumstances or situations unique to the retail establishment such
that compliance with the requirements of this chapter would deprive a person of
a legally protected right; or
      (3)   Circumstances where a retail establishment requires additional time
in order to draw down an existing inventory of single-use plastic check out
bags. Any retail establishment receiving an exemption shall file with the Chief
monthly reports on inventory reduction and remaining stocks.
   (B)   Any retail establishment shall apply for an exemption to the Chief
using forms provided by the Department, and shall allow the Chief, or his or
her designee, access to all information supporting its application.
   (C)   The Chief may approve the exemption request, in whole or in part, with
or without conditions.
   (D)   The Chief, by regulation, may establish a fee for exemption requests.
(CBC 1985 17-20.5; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.6   Effective Date.
   All of the requirements set forth in this by-law shall take effect within a
year of passage.
(CBC 1985 17-20.6; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-20.7   Severability.
   It is the intention of the Boston City Council that each separate provision
of this Section shall be deemed independent of all other provisions herein, and
it is further the intention of the Boston City Council that if any provision of
this chapter be declared to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining provisions of this Section shall remain valid and enforceable.
(CBC 1985 17-20.7; Ord. 2017 c. 9)
17-21   LICENSING AND REGULATING SHARED MOBILITY BUSINESSES.
17-21.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COMMITTEE. The Small Vehicle Sharing Business Advisory Committee.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Boston Transportation Department, or
his or her designee.
   SMALL VEHICLE. Any wheeled device used for transporting persons or goods,
whether or not powered in any part by a motor; any electric vehicle; any
vehicle powered by autonomous technology; or such other similar vehicles as may
be defined by regulation. A SMALL VEHICLE does not include a vehicle that must
by law be registered with the commonwealth. Nor does it include electrical
personal assistive mobility devices as defined by Subsection 16-12.38A et seq.
   SMALL VEHICLE SHARING BUSINESS. A business that provides access to a fleet
of ten or more small vehicles available for rent or delivery service on a self-
service basis at geographically distributed locations, including the public
right-of-way. SMALL VEHICLE SHARING BUSINESSES do not include publicly-
maintained or publicly owned small vehicle sharing systems.
   VEHICLE SHARING BUSINESS. 
      (1)   The business of making available to all pre-approved members access
to a network of vehicles that are required to be registered with the
commonwealth:
         (a)   In exchange for an hourly, daily or weekly rate (or fractions
thereof) and/or at rates that vary by time or by time and distance; and
         (b)   In geographically distributed locations and available for pick-
up by members on a self-service basis without assistance, key exchanges or
hand-offs with the vehicle owner, operator, lot, stations or garage or any
other paid or contracted personnel.
      (2)   VEHICLE SHARING BUSINESSES. shall not include “Transportation
Network Companies” as defined by M.G.L. Chapter 159A½.
(CBC 1985 17-21.1; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.2   Operation of a Small Vehicle Sharing Business.
   (A)   No person or entity shall operate a small vehicle sharing business
except pursuant to a license issued by the Commissioner. A license to operate
such a business may be issued upon:
      (1)   Completion of such application as required by the Commissioner
setting forth the required information to determine qualification under any
standards and requirements as may be established; and
      (2)   Determination by the Commissioner that the applicant’s proposal
meets such standards and requirements, which may take into account the
applicant’s past conduct in the city prior to the passage of this Section, and
that the issuance of such license complies with applicable law and contractual
arrangements.
   (B)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall ensure that their small
vehicles comply with all applicable federal and commonwealth law and
regulations.
(CBC 1985 17-21.2; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.3   Rental and Storage of Small Vehicles.
   Based upon the interest of safety, no person or entity shall store or make
available for rent small vehicles associated with their small vehicle sharing
business on the public property in the city, except as specifically authorized
by this chapter. Public property includes, but is not limited to, all public
ways, sidewalks, parks, plazas, bicycle paths and shared use paths owned by
and/or under the care, custody and control of the city.
(CBC 1985 17-21.3; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.4   Small Vehicle Sharing Business Advisory Committee.
   (A)   There shall be within the city a Small Vehicle Sharing Business
Advisory Committee comprising, at minimum, a representative from the Mayor’s
Office of New Urban Mechanics, a representative from the Disabilities
Commission, the Boston City Council President or such other Councilor
designated, from time to time, by the Council President and a representative
from the Environment Department.
   (B)   The Advisory Committee shall advise the Commissioner on issues related
to small vehicles and small vehicle sharing businesses including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Sustainability of the small vehicles and small vehicle sharing
businesses;
      (2)   Safety;
      (3)   Accessibility of the public right-of-way; and
      (4) Regulatory changes to licensing requirements.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall have the discretion to add or remove
representatives from the Advisory Committee.
   (D)   The Advisory Committee shall issue a quarterly report to the Mayor and
Boston City Council on the actions and recommendations undertaken by the
Advisory Committee. Such report shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk
and placed on the agenda at the next Boston City Council meeting after such
filing.
(CBC 1985 17-21.4; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.5   Authority over Small Vehicle Sharing Businesses.
   (A)   Limits on small vehicles. The Commissioner may by regulation limit the
total number of types of small vehicles available for rent by small vehicle
sharing businesses based upon issues such as safety, accessibility of the
public way, geographic availability and usage rates. The Boston Transportation
Department shall evaluate this limit, from time to time, to determine whether
the limit should be adjusted.
   (B)   Limits on licenses. The Commissioner may, from time to time, set a
limit on the number of total licenses that may be issued or renewed per year.
The Commissioner’s authority to limit the total number of licenses shall also
include the ability to issue licenses for a defined period of time as “pilot
licenses”, in order to assess the impact of small vehicle sharing businesses
and inform the promulgation of regulations.
   (C)   Licensing. In the city, small vehicle sharing businesses shall be
subject to licensure by Commissioner and the minimum requirements provided in
this chapter. The minimum requirements shall be as follows.
      (1)   Small vehicles for rent by small vehicle sharing businesses shall
not obstruct crosswalks, curb ramps, fire hydrants, building ingress or egress,
public utilities or as otherwise directed within the city’s Traffic Rules and
Regulations.
      (2)   Small vehicle sharing business applicants shall submit a safety
plan, which outlines their plan to inspect, maintain and replace, when
appropriate, their small vehicles and how they plan to meet applicable federal
and commonwealth laws. The safety plan shall also include a proposal to educate
the public on proper and safe usage of their small vehicles. The safety plan
shall also include a proposal and commitment to ensure safe parking of such
small vehicles. The safety plan must be presented to the Advisory Committee and
approved by the Boston Transportation Department.
      (3)   Small vehicle sharing business applicants shall submit their
proposed area(s) of service. Such proposed area(s) shall be subject to approval
and revision by the Boston Transportation Department.
      (4)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall have the ability to remove
their small vehicles in advance of a snow emergency or other extreme weather,
in advance of major events or as otherwise directed by the Boston
Transportation Department.
      (5)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall have the ability to remotely
lock-down individual small vehicles when they are deemed or reported to be
unsafe, in advance of a snow emergency or other extreme weather, in advance of
major events, when located outside approved service areas or as otherwise
directed by the Boston Transportation Department.
      (6)   The maximum speed of small vehicles made available by a small
vehicle sharing business shall not exceed 15 mph.
      (7)   Small vehicles for rent by small vehicle sharing businesses shall
clearly display a unique, permanent identification number that is provided to
the city.
      (8)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall maintain a website that
explains the terms of service, including user instructions, privacy policies
and all fees, costs, penalties and charges, including those specific to the
city. Such information shall be available in the languages required by the
Communications Access Coordinator, as established in Section 6-10. The website
shall include the phone number for a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week customer service
hotline.
      (9)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall indemnify and hold harmless
the city from and against any and all loss arising out of or resulting from
their small vehicles. Small vehicle sharing businesses shall also hold
insurance, as may be required by the Commissioner.
      (10)   Small vehicle sharing businesses shall be required to meet with
community and business groups, as directed by the Commissioner in consultation
with the Advisory Committee, ahead of launching service.
   (D)   Application fee. The application fee for a license or a renewal of a
license for the operation of a small vehicle sharing business shall be $500.
   (E)   Annual fee. An annual fee as set by the Commissioner shall be required
for the issuance or renewal of a small vehicle sharing business license.
   (F)   Transfers. No person holding a small vehicle sharing business license
shall sell, lend, lease or in any manner transfer such license for value.
However, a license holder may transfer the license as part of the sale of a
majority of the stock in a corporation holding such license, as part of the
sale of a majority of the membership interests of a limited liability company
holding such license, or as part of the sale of a business or substantially all
of its assets; provided that prior to any such transfer, the transferor shall
notify the Boston Transportation Department in writing and the transferee shall
submit an application for approval pursuant to Subsection 17-21.2(A).
   (G)   Regulatory authorities. The Commissioner may, by regulation, establish
any standards and requirements for safe and responsible operation of small
vehicle sharing businesses deemed necessary for reasonable management of the
public right-of-way. Such regulations may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Standards for safety of equipment, responsible operation and
aesthetics;
      (2)   Requirements to remove or promptly repair any vehicle determined by
the city to present an impermissible risk to health or safety;
      (3)   Standards designed to promote compliance with parking and storage
requirements, including the establishment of penalties and fines in connection
with small vehicles and small vehicle sharing businesses;
      (4)   Requirements to notify customers of legal or other requirements
applicable to use of vehicles under the program;
      (5)   Standards regarding the area of service;
      (6)   Requirements to label vehicles with identifying information;
      (7)   Requirements regarding insurance, security and indemnification of
the city;
      (8)   Requirements regarding the regular provision of data to the city
regarding vehicles used by the business, such as usage rates and vehicle
condition;
      (9)   Requirements regarding the total number of shared vehicles in the
city, or in any area of the city;
      (10)   Standards for the suspension and revocation of a license;
      (11)   Rules and procedures concerning renewal of a license; and
      (12)   Such other standards or requirements as may be necessary for safe
and reasonable management of the public right-of-way, and compliance with the
licensing provisions of this Section.
   (H)   Revocation, suspension, modification. Once a license has been issued,
it may be revoked, suspended, modified or not renewed by the Boston
Transportation Department for failure to comply with the provisions of this
Section or any rules and regulations promulgated.
   (I)   Enforcement. The provisions of this Section or any rules and
regulations promulgated thereof may be enforced by the Boston Transportation
Department.
(CBC 1985 17-25.5; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.6   Vehicle Sharing Businesses.
   The Commissioner shall have the authority to permit and issue regulations
for vehicle sharing businesses.
(CBC 1985 17-25.6; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.7   Enforcement.
   (A)   The Commissioner shall have the authority to impound and/or contract
with a third-party towing service to impound small vehicles of unlicensed small
vehicle sharing businesses and impose fees related to the city’s efforts to
collect, store and track such small vehicles.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall also have the authority to impound small
vehicles of licensed small vehicle sharing businesses that are stored or parked
on the public right-of-way in a manner that is inconsistent with this chapter
or the city’s Traffic Rules and Regulations and impose fees accordingly.
(CBC 1985 17-21.7; Ord. 2019 c. 3 § 1)
17-21.8   Severability.
   If any provision of this Section is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and
apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(CBC 1985 17-21.8)
CHAPTER XVIII: FEES AND CHARGES
Section
18-1   ENUMERATION OF FEES AND CHARGES
   
18-1.1   “A” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.2   “B” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.3   “C” Fees and Licenses
   
18-1.4   “D” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.5   “E” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.6   “F” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.7   “G” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.8   “H” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.9   “I” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.10   “J” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.11   “K” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.12   “L” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.13   “M” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.14   “N” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.15   “O” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.16   “P” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.17   “Q” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.18   “R” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.19   “S” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.20   “T” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.21   “U” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.22   “V” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.23   “W” Fees and Charges
   
18-1.24   “X”, “Y”, “Z” Fees and Charges
18-2   FEES BASED ON GROSS SALES
18-3   WHEN CHARGES ARE DUE AND PAYABLE
18-4   RENEWAL FEES
18-5   EXEMPTIONS FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS
18-6   OTHER EXEMPTIONS
18-7   EXEMPTION FOR BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY
18-8   CITY RECORD: ADVERTISING AND SUBSCRIPTION CHARGES
18-9   ANNUAL SEWER USE CHARGES
18-10   PUBLIC TELEPHONES
18-11   FEE FOR AUGMENTED FIRE SERVICE
   
18-11.1   Definitions
   
18-11.2   Charges Determined by Fire Commissioner
   
18-11.3   Appeal of Charge
   
18-11.4   Sending of Revised Bill
   
18-11.5   Estimated Fee
   
18-11.6   Rules and Regulations
   
18-11.7   Exceptions
   
18-11.8   Administration of this Section
   
18-11.9   Severability
18-12   INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT PERMIT FEE REFUNDS
Editor’s note:
   For a history of many of the fees and charges enumerated in this Section,
see Rev. Ord. 1961 ch. 30 § 1 and 1971 Cumulative Supplement c. 30 § 1. See
also Ord. 1972, c. 5, c. 14; Ord. 1973 c. 2; Ord. 1974 c. 16; Ord. 1975 cs 1,
6; Ord. 1976 c. 3, c. 5, c. 8, c. 11, c. 12, c. 17, c. 18; Ord. 177 c. 1, c. 2,
c. 7, c. 9, c. 15, c. 17; Ord. 1978 c. 1, c. 4; Ord. 1979 c. 18, c. 30; Ord.
1981, c. 5–7, c. 9–c 11, c. 13–c. 16, c. 22– c. 31, c. 33– c. 35; Ord. 1982 c.
3, c. 4, c. 5, c. 9, c. 18, c. 27, c. 28, c. 32; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 450; Ord.
1985 c. 4, c. 12; Ord. 1986 c. 2, c. 8, c.14, c. 21; Ord. 1987 c. 10; Ord. 1988
c. 8.
18-1   ENUMERATION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following fees and charges are hereby fixed under all powers hereunto
enabling (including that conferred by Chapter 222 of the Acts of 1949).
18-1.1   “A” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Advertising permit fee. The fee for a permit granted by the
Commissioner of Public Works under Subsection 16-2.3 shall be $50 except that
in cases where such a permit is granted for a period longer than one month, the
fee therefor shall be $50 for each monthly period for which it is granted.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 25; repealed by Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 8; Ord.
2007 c. 11)
   (B)   After-hours inspection fee. The fee paid to the Commissioner of the
Inspectional Services Department (“ISD”) for any inspection conducted by any
division of ISD occurring outside of the normal business hours of ISD, at the
request of the party to be inspected, shall be $250 for all such inspections.
(Ord. 2019 c. 7 § 1)
   (C)   Alcohol (methyl or wood), license to manufacture or deal in. The fee
for a license granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter
94, Section 303B to engage in the business described in Section 303A of said
Chapter shall be $3.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (D)   Ammunition, license to sell. The fee for a license to sell ammunition
granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 122B shall
be $225.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 1)
   (E)   Ammunition, license to store. The fee for an annual license to store
ammunition granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter
148, Section 13 shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 1)
   (F)   Appeal to Board of Appeal under Building and/or Zoning Code. The fee
paid to the Commissioner of Inspectional Services for an appeal to the Board of
Appeal under the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, the Boston Zoning
Code or both, shall be:
      (1)   In the case of a dwelling which would, should the appellant
prevail, contain three or less dwelling units and no other use, $150; and
      (2)   In every other case, $150 for each condition, provision, use item
restriction or dimensional requirement which is the subject of such appeal.
(Ord. 1981 c. 23 § 2; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 1; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (G)   Reserved. 
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (H)   Assembly permit to use place as place of. The fee for a permit granted
by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 27.02 of the Boston Fire
Prevention Code to maintain, operate and use a place as a place of assembly
shall be, for each year in which such permit may be exercised, $160 in the case
of a place of assembly having a lawful capacity of at least 50 persons but
fewer than 100 persons; $250 in the case of a place of assembly having a lawful
capacity of at least 100 persons but fewer than 200 persons; $260 in the case
of a place of assembly having a lawful capacity of at least 200 persons but
fewer than 300 persons; $325 in the case of a place of assembly having a lawful
capacity of at least 300 persons but fewer than 400 persons; $850 in the case
of a place of assembly having a lawful capacity of at least 400 persons but
fewer than 500 persons; $1,625 in the case of a place of assembly having a
lawful capacity of at least 500 persons but fewer than 5,000 persons; $3,250 in
the case of a place of assembly having a lawful capacity of at least 5,000
persons but fewer than 14,000 persons; and $6,500 in the case of a place of
assembly having a lawful capacity of more than 14,000 persons.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11, c. 18; Ord. 1985 c. 4; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 2; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 2)
   (I)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 25; repealed by Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 9)
   (J)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 25; repealed by Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 10)
   (L)   Assessor’s city block maps. The charge to be paid for a city block map
made or kept by the Commissioner of Assessing shall be $10.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 2)
   (M)   Assessor’s computer generated maps on paper. The charge to be paid for
a computer generated map on paper made or kept by the Commissioner of Assessing
shall be $25.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 3)
   (N)   Assessor’s electronic computer generated maps on CD-ROM. The charge to
be paid for an electronic computer generated map on CD-ROM made or kept by the
Commissioner of Assessing shall be $50.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 4)
   (O)   Assessor’s plans, copies of. The charge to be paid for copies of
engineering survey plans made or kept by the Commissioner of Assessing shall be
$10 for each copy of one full-sized plan and $5 for each copy of one reduced
size plan.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 25; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 1)
   (P)   Assessor’s property record cards. The charge to be paid for a property
Record Card made or kept by the Commissioner of Assessing shall be $5.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 5)
   (Q)   Assessor’s property tax record, printout of. The charge to be paid for
a printout of a property tax record furnished by the Commissioner of Assessing
shall be $4 for a stamped copy, and $2 for an unstamped copy. There will be no
charge if the request is made by the owner of the property.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 6)
   (R)   Assessor’s tax data administration tapes. The charge to be paid for a
tax data administration tape compiled by the Commissioner of Assessing shall be
$180.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 7)
   (S)   Assessor’s tax data administration laser printouts. The charge to be
paid for tax data administration laser printouts compiled by the Commissioner
of Assessing shall be $180 for printouts of one through five wards, $230 for
printouts of six through ten wards, $280 for printouts of 11 through 16 wards
and $330 for printouts of 17 through 22 wards.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 11)
   (T)   Assessor’s property parcel data (lite version) on diskettes. The
charge to be paid for property parcel data (lite version) on diskettes compiled
by the Commissioner of Assessing shall be $34.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 12)
   (U)   Assessor’s property parcel data (full version) on CD-ROM. The charge
to be paid for property parcel data (full version) on CD-ROM compiled by the
Commissioner of Assessing shall be $78.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 1 § 13)
   (V)   Assignment f/b/o creditors. The fee of the City Clerk for filing and
indexing a copy of an assignment for the benefit of creditors under M.G.L.
Chapter 203, Section 41 shall be $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (W)   Assignment of wages. The fee for the City Clerk for recording under
either M.G.L. Chapter 154 or Chapter 255 an assignment of, or order for, future
wages and salary, including any acceptances thereof by the employer, shall be
$15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (X)   Association merged into corporation. The fee of the City Clerk for
receiving and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 156, Section 46A a copy, certified by
the Secretary of the commonwealth, of articles of amendment in connection with
the merger of an association into a corporation or a certificate issued
pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 156, Section 46F evidencing the filing of such
articles with the Secretary, shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 4)
   (Y)   Attachment of bulky personal property. The fee of the City Clerk for
receiving and filing a certified copy of writ and return of attachment of bulky
personal property under M.G.L. Chapter 223, Section 51 shall be $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (Z)   Attachment of bulky personal property, dissolution of. The fee of the
City Clerk for receiving and filing a dissolution of attachment of bulky
personal property shall be $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (AA)   Attorney. See “Power of Attorney”.
   (BB)   Auction, license of establishment for closing out. The fee for a
license granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 100 to conduct
or maintain an establishment for holding an auction represented or advertised
by any such descriptive term as is set forth in said Section 18 shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 3)
   (CC)   Auction, license of establishment for sale of jewelry and the like
at. The fee for a license granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L.
Chapter 100 to conduct or maintain an establishment for the sale at auction of
the articles or goods enumerated in said Section 14 shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 4)
   (DD)   Auctioneer’s license (for resident). The fee for an auctioneer’s
license granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 100, Section 2
shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1978 c. 4; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 5)
   (EE)   Auctioneer’s permit (for non-resident to auction goods brought into
city for sale by auction). The fee for an annual auctioneer’s permit granted by
the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 100 shall be $250.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 6)
   (FF)   Auctioneer’s permit (for non-resident to auction jewelry and the
like, at licensed establishment). The fee for a permit to act as an auctioneer
issued by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 100 shall be $50 for a
temporary license for a period not to exceed 30 days, or $150 per annum.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1978 c. 4)
   (GG)   Auctioneer’s special license (for non-resident to auction real
estate, livestock and general farm equipment and produce). The fee for a
special auctioneer’s license granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L.
Chapter 100 shall be $10 for each of the days for which it is granted, but not
less than $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1978 c. 4)
   (HH)   Automatic amusement device license. The annual fee for a license
granted by the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 177A for any
automatic amusement device licensed thereunder shall be $140. The fee for any
such license granted after January 31 in any year shall be $10 for each
calendar month in which the license may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (II)   Automobile wrecking yard permit. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 3.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to conduct or maintain an automobile wrecking yard shall be $750 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981, c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 7; CBC 1985 18-1.1; Ord.
1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 2; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 3; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 3)
18-1.2   “B” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Badges, medallions and plates, replacement of lost. Except as
otherwise provided in this Section, the fee of any Board or Officer for
replacing any lost badge, medallion or plate shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 7)
   (B)   Bakery permit. The fee for a permit granted under Subsection 16-1.4A
shall be $100 for each 1,000 square feet, or portion thereof, devoted to the
manufacture of baked goods, including storage of raw materials, baking,
packaging and the like, but excluding any area devoted to the display of baked
goods for sale at retail, and provided that in the case of a bakery inspected
by the Department of Public Health of the commonwealth, the fee hereunder shall
be reduced by the amount, if any, paid to the commonwealth in connection with
such inspection.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 9; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 2;
Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (C)   Baths (vapor, pool, shower or other). The fee for an annual license
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
51 to conduct an establishment for the giving of vapor, pool, shower or other
baths for hire or reward shall be $200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (D)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (E)   Beverage bottles. See “Registration of Beverage Bottles”.
   (F)   Beverages, manufacture or bottling of. The fee for a permit granted by
the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 10B to
engage in the business of manufacturing or bottling carbonated nonalcoholic
beverages, soda waters, mineral or spring waters shall be $400.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (G)   Bicycle registration. The fee for the registration of a bicycle and
the issuance of a certificate of registration and registration plate by the
Boston Police Department under M.G.L. Chapter 85, Section 11A shall be $1;
provided, however, that the fee for the registration of a bicycle by an
establishment dealing in the rental of bicycles shall be $2 for each bicycle.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 8)
   (H)   Bicycle registration, duplicate plate. The charge of the Boston Police
Department for replacing a lost bicycle registration plate shall be $0.25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (I)   Bills of sale. See “Personal Property Mortgages, and the like”.
   (J)   Birth, entry of delayed record of. The fee of the City Registrar for
entering under M.G.L. Chapter 46, Section 13 or Section 13A a delayed record of
birth shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 9; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 §
1; Ord. 1996 c. 5 § 4; Ord. 2003 c. 7 § 1)
   (K)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 § 2; repealed by Ord.
2003 c. 9 § 1)
   (L)   Birth, marriage or death, amendment, correction or supplementation of
record of. The fee of the City Registrar for amending, correcting or
supplementing under M.G.L. Chapter 46, Section 13 the record of the birth,
marriage or death, including amending thereunder the record of the birth of an
illegitimate child upon legitimation, shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 10; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 §
3; Ord. 1996 c. 5 § 5; Ord. 2003 c. 8 § 1)
   (M)   Birth, marriage or death, certificate as to record of. The fee of the
City Registrar for furnishing a certificate as to the record of a birth,
marriage or death shall be $12 and in the case of a certificate as to the
record of a birth an additional fee of $40 if the request is made on a weekend
or a holiday.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 11; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 §
4; Ord. 1996 c. 5 § 6; Ord. 2003 c. 4 § 1)
   (N)   Births, marriage or deaths, copy of record of. The fee of the City
Registrar for furnishing a certified copy of a record or paper relating to a
birth, marriage or death by mail shall be $12 for each page or part thereof.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 12; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 §
5; Ord. 2003 c. 3 §§ 1, 2)
   (O)   Births, marriages or deaths, mailing a copy or copies of a record of.
The fee of the City Registrar for furnishing a certified copy of a record or
paper relating to a birth, marriage or death by mail shall be $14 for each page
or part thereof.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 3 § 1; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (P)   Births, marriage and deaths, search of records of. The fee of the City
Registrar for searching, or causing to be searched, upon request, records or
papers relating to births, marriages or deaths shall be $10 for each hour or
fraction thereof.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 §
6; Ord. 1996 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2003 c. 6 § 1)
   (Q)   Blasting bond. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving and filing a
bond given under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 19 in connection with a permit to
use an explosive in the blasting of rock or other substance shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13)
   (R)   Blasting permit. The fee for a permit granted by the head of the Fire
Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A to use explosives shall be
$100 for each blast or series of concomitant blasts thereby authorized.
(Ord. 1976 c.11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 4; Ord. 2011 c. 6)
   (S)   Boat license. The fee for a license to run a steamboat or other boat
propelled by power other than muscular power for the conveyance for hire of
passengers on a lake, pond or waters not within the maritime jurisdiction of
the United States granted by the Boston City Council under M.G.L. Chapter 140,
Section 191 shall be $50 and the fee of the City Clerk for recording such
license under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 192 shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (T)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5; repealed by Ord. 2004 c. 9 § 2)
   (U)   Bowling alley license. The fee for a license to keep a bowling alley
for hire, gain or reward granted by the licensing board under M.G.L. Chapter
140, Section 177 shall be a primary fee of $40 and an additional fee of $20 for
each alley or bed.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (V)   Bowling alley refinishing permit. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 4.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to refinish bowling pins, or resurface bowling alleys, or both, using
flammable liquids or materials, shall be $130.
(Ord. 1976 c.11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 5; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016
c. 9 § 4)
   (W)   Builder’s or mechanic’s license. The fee for an application for a
license granted by the Board of Examiners under Section 120 of Chapter 479 of
St. 1938 and classified by said Board under paragraph (c) of said Section as an
ABC license shall be $50; provided that the fee for an application for a
renewal of such a license shall be, if paid on or before or within 30 days
after the expiration date of the license renewed, $30, otherwise, $35. The fee
for an application for any other license or combination of licenses granted by
the Board of Examiners under said Section 120 shall be $40; provided that the
fee for an application for a renewal of such license, for which the fee is paid
on or before or within 30 days after the expiration date of the license
renewed, shall be $30 dollars, otherwise, $35. No license shall be issued under
this Section until the licensee shall have certified that he or she owns a copy
of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR. The fee to be charged by
the Board of Examiners for the replacement of any lost license shall be $5.
Each fee fixed by this clause shall include the cost of the photograph of the
licensee contained in the license. The Board of Examiners may refund, only in
the case of an applicant who takes and fails the qualifying examination, but in
no other case, one-half of the fee paid.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1979 c. 30; Ord. 1981 c. 23; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 14)
   (X)   Building construction and demolition permit. The fee of the Chief of
the Fire Department under Section 7.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code for
reviewing an application for a permit under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s
Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to construct or demolish a building or
structure shall be a primary fee of $215 and an additional fee of $35 for each
story above three in the building or structure to be constructed or demolished
and a further additional fee of $6 for each full 5,000 cubic feet in such
building or structure as measured by the outer side of the outside walls, the
exterior of the roof and the base of the foundation walls.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 16; Ord. 1990 c. 5; Ch. 6 § 3; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 6; Ord. 2011
c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 5)
   (Y)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; repealed by Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 3)
   (Z)   Building materials yard permit. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 23.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to operate a building materials yard, whether or not including the
operation of a woodworking plant on the premises thereof and the storage on
such premises of in excess of 100,000 board feet of lumber, shall be $750 in
advance annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 17; Ord. 1990 c. 5, c. 6 §
4; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 7; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 6)
   (AA)   Building moving permit. The fees of the Building Commissioner for
receiving an application for a permit under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s
Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to move a building or structure shall be a
primary fee of $50 and an additional fee of $10 for each 5,000 cubic feet in
the building as measured by the outer side of the outside walls, the exterior
of the roof and the top of the foundation walls.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (BB)   Building and demolition permit. The fee of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for receiving an application for a permit under Section
105 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to construct,
reconstruct, alter, repair or demolish a building or structure shall be a
primary fee of $50; plus an additional $10 for each $1,000 of the fair cost of
the work authorized by such permit as determined by said Commissioner.
Effective immediately upon passage and through December 31, 2020, the fair cost
of work for the construction of a solar photovoltaic system shall exclude the
cost of all solar panels and inverters. All other fees and installation permits
are still applicable. If an applicant is unsure that building construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition will actually be undertaken
pending decision of the Board of Appeals, then he or she may make a deposit of
one-third of the cost of a building permit or $300, whichever is less, in
return for which the said Commissioner shall receive an application for a
building permit. If the applicant subsequently begins construction within six
months of obtaining such decision, the amount of the deposit shall be applied
to the cost of the building permit. If the applicant does not begin
construction or demolition within such time, the deposit shall not be refunded.
The fees of the Commissioner for receiving an application for an amendment of a
permit, whether for structural changes or minor alterations, shall be a primary
fee of $20 and an additional fee of $10 for each $1,000 of the fair cost of the
additional work to be authorized by such amendment as determined by the
Commissioner; provided, however, that there shall be no primary fee for
receiving an application for an amendment wholly required by said Commissioner.
The fees of said Commissioner for issuing under Section 105 of the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, a special permit for the
foundations of a building shall be a primary fee of $100 and an additional fee
of $10 for each 1,000 cubic yards or fraction thereof in excess of 10,000 cubic
yards of excavation. Provided, however, that any applicant seeking refund of a
building permit fee in cases where the permit was denied by the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services or abandoned by the applicant prior to any work starting
under said permit, shall receive reimbursement equal to the fee minus $50 when
the amount of the fee paid totaled $100 or more and reimbursement equal to the
fee paid minus $20 when the fee paid totaled less than $100. Any permit issued
shall be deemed abandoned and invalid unless the work authorized by it shall
have been commenced within six months after its issuance; however, for cause,
one or more extensions of time, for periods not exceeding six months each, may
be granted in writing by the Commissioner; provided that the application for an
extension is submitted prior to the expiration of the permit. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to furnish all relevant documentation and
information for the extension as required by said Commissioner. The fee of the
Commissioner for receiving an application for an extension of a permit shall be
$100. The Commissioner shall require contractors to list the following
information on the affidavit to the permit application: all currently open
permits including the address, date issuance, status of project and expected
completion date. The Commissioner shall consider the amount of open permits and
the status of the project or projects when approving permits. Failure to list
any open permits will result in automatic denial of the new permit. The
provisions of this Section shall only apply to residential property for the
purpose of home improvements.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1976, c. 2 § 1; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 §
4; Ord. 2002 c. 3; Ord. 2010 c. 5; Ord. 2010 c. 10; Ord. 2016 c. 16 § 1)
   (CC)   Building plans, examination of. The fee of the Chief of the Fire
Department for the examination of building plans as required by the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, shall be $160; plus an additional
$25 for each page over 15 pages. The fee for preliminary examination of
building plans shall be $75.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 15; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
5; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 8; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 7)
   (DD)   Building use or occupancy, permit to change. The fee of the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services for receiving an application for a permit
under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to
change the use or occupancy of a building or structure shall be $50, except
that for structures defined in 780 CMR, as the same may be amended from time to
time, as one, two or three family dwelling units in Use Group R, the fee shall
be $20.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 7; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (EE)   Burial, permit for. The fee for a permit granted by the Board of
Health and Hospitals pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 114, Section 45 for the burial,
exhumation or other listed transference of a deceased human body shall be $10.
The applicant shall be responsible for furnishing to the Board of Health and
Hospitals all necessary documentation as provided by M.G.L. Chapter 114,
Section 45.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 1 § 1)
   (FF)   Business name, certificate or statement relative to. The fee of the
City Clerk for receiving, filing and indexing a certificate presented under
M.G.L. Chapter 110, Section 5 and for the renewal thereof shall be $50 and for
receiving, filing and indexing a statement made in accordance with said Section
5 shall be $25; provided that in the case of the renewal certificates for ten
or more businesses, all of which are conducted at the same address by the same
corporate or non-corporate person, said person may file one certificate with a
schedule of said businesses or names attached thereto, for which the fee shall
be $25 for each business or name listed on said schedule.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 18; Ord. 1987 c. 8 §§ 1, 2;
Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 1; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 1; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (GG)   Business name, certified copy of certificate or certificate or
statement relative to. The fee of the City Clerk for furnishing a certified
copy of a certificate or statement filed under M.G.L. Chapter 110, Section 5
other than the copy issued at the time of the filing shall be $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; CBC 1985 18-1.2; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 2;
Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
18-1.3   “C” Fees and Licenses.
   (A)   Canine guards, registration of establishment protected by. The fee to
be paid to the Chief of the Fire Department by any person having control of a
mercantile, commercial or industrial establishment protected by canine guards,
and required so to notify said Chief by M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 28B, shall
be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 9; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 8)
   (B)   Carousel license. The fee for a license granted by the Mayor under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 186 to establish, keep open and maintain a carousel
at a carnival shall be $15 for each day on which such a license may be
exercised. The fee for a license so granted to establish, keep open and
maintain a carousel other than at a carnival shall be $50 for each monthly
period in which such license may be exercised, except that in the case of a
carousel exclusively for children under age 13, such fee shall be $25 for each
such monthly period.
(Ord. 1976 c.11)
   (C)   Caterers, permit for out of town. The fee for a permit issued by the
Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department, under
Subsection 16-1.7 and a registration issued by a Division of Health
Inspections, Inspectional Services Department under the State Sanitary Code,
being 105 CMR 400 and 410, to a caterer whose establishment is not located
within the city and is, therefor, not licensed by the Division of Health
Inspections, Inspectional Services Department, but who conducts business within
the city shall be, collectively:
      (1)   Ten dollars for each function catered within the city for groups of
less than 200 people; and
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars for each function catered within the city for
groups of more than 200 people.
(Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (D)   Catering establishment, permit for. The fee for a permit granted by
the Division of Health Inspections, Inspectional Services Department, under the
State Sanitary Code for the operation of a catering establishment shall be
$325.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 5)
   (E)   Cemetery, permit for. The fee for a permit granted by the Mayor and
Boston City Council under M.G.L. Chapter 114, Section 34 to use land for burial
purposes shall be $500.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 3)
   (F)   Cemetery charges. 
      (1)   The charge to be paid to the Cemetery Division of the Parks and
Recreation Department; provided no charge shall be made for the initial
interment of sworn member of the Police or Fire Departments of the city who
dies in the line of duty. Cemetery fees shall be as follows:
City Poor                                        $250
Cremated Remains (Interments)
   Foundation                                 $218
   Grave opening                              $226
   Grave re-opening                           $226
   Perpetual care                             $456
   Single grave purchase                      $500
Cremated Remains (Wall Niches)
   Niche opening                              $100
   Niche re-opening                           $100
   Perpetual care                             $650
   Single grave purchase                      $650
Disinterments
   Handling cremated remains                  $109
   Handling infant removal                    $109
   Removal                                    $2,193
   Transportation removal                     $226
(grave to grave within cemetery)
Double Crypt Fee                                 $1,600
Foundation Charge                                $218
Grave Opening Charge                             $798
   Weekday prior to 3:00 p.m.
Grave Re-opening Charge                          $798
   (Burial of second person)
Handling Charges
   Handling cremated remains                  $109
   Handling infant removal                    $109
   Removal                                    $2,193
   Transportation removal                     $226
(Grave to grave within cemetery)
Liner Cover Installation                         $10
Perpetual Care                                   $456
Single Grave Purchase (2 people)                 $500
   (Burial of first person)
Other Grave Opening Charges
    Baby up to 6 months (Saturdays)          $202
    Baby up to 6 months (weekdays)           $167
   Cremated remains (Saturdays)               $273
   Cremated remains (weekdays)                $226
   Saturdays prior to 3:00 p.m.               $970
   Saturdays after 3:00 p.m. (additional charg$321
   Weekdays after 3:00 p.m. (additional charge$226
 
      (2)   In each year from 2013 through 2016, the maximum increase for any
cemetery fee identified in this Section or any other shall not exceed 5% of the
previous year’s change. Nothing in the ordinances shall prohibit the
Commissioner from establishing new fees categories for new services with the
approval of the Parks and Recreation Commission. All fees will be reviewed by
the Boston City Council in 2016.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 31; Ord. 1990 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 2001 c. 2; Ord.
2011 c. 16)
   (G)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1990 c. 1 § 2; repealed by Ord. 2001 c. 2)
   (H)   Cemetery, recording of deed to grave or lot in. The fee of the Parks
and Recreation Commission for recording as Agent of the City Clerk under
Section 51 of Chapter 550 of the Acts of 1948 a deed to a grave or lot in any
cemetery belonging to the city shall be $5; provided that there shall be no fee
for so recording a deed of the city executed under Subsection 7-5.3.
(Ord. 1976 c.11)
   (I)   Cesspool, permit for emptying of. The fee for a permit to empty a
cesspool, vault or privy granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under
Subsection 16-1.23 shall be $72 per year.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (J)   Chemicals, permit to handle and store hazardous. The fee for an annual
permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 20.03 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to handle and store corrosive liquids, oxidizing
materials or poisonous gas shall be a primary fee of $90 and an additional fee
equal, in the case of fluids, to $40 for each 1,000 of the first 10,000 gallons
thereof; $20 for each 1,000 of the next 90,000 gallons thereof; $15 for each
10,000 gallons of the next 4,900,000 gallons thereof; and $10 for each 100,000
gallons in excess of 5,000,000 gallons; and in the case of solids, to $10 for
each 1,000 of the first 10,000 pounds thereof; and $10 for each 10,000 pounds
of the next 90,000 pounds thereof; and $10 for each 100,000 pounds of the next
49,900,000 pounds thereof; and $10 for each 1,000,000 pounds thereof in excess
of 50,000,000 pounds; and in the case of gases, to $10 for each 100 cubic feet
of the first 1,000 cubic feet thereof; $10 for each 1,000 cubic feet of the
next 499,000 cubic feet thereof; and $10 for each 10,000 cubic feet thereof in
excess of 500,000 cubic feet. The fee for a permit granted as aforesaid for any
period other than a year shall be, for each calendar month in which such permit
may be exercised, one-twelfth of the fee for an annual permit.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 19; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 6; Ord. 1997 c.
2 § 10; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 9)
   (K)   Chiropodist’s certificate. The fee of the City Clerk for recording
under M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 21 the name and address of a registered
chiropodist and the date and number of his or her certificate shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (L)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 2003 c. 2 § 1; repealed by Ord. 2013 c.
7)
   (M)   City Clerk, certifications by. The fee for a certification by the City
Clerk that the signer of a document is the holder of the City Office indicated
and that the signature is valid, or that a document is a true copy, shall be
$15.
(Ord. 1992 c. 5; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (N)   City Clerk for notarizing of documents. The fee of the City Clerk, or
any employee while in the Office thereof, for notarizing a document or paper,
except for those documents or papers which relate to official city business,
shall be $5.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (O)   City Clerk, recording of instruments by. The fee of the City Clerk for
recording an instrument or paper shall, except as otherwise expressly provided
by this Section, be $2 for each page or part thereof; provided that the minimum
charge shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (P)   City Hall Plaza, rental of. The fee of the Commissioner of Property
Management for use of City Hall plaza shall be $200 per hour for a minimum of
four hours plus a non-refundable application fee of $25 for non-ticketed events
open to the public lasting no longer than two days. The hourly fee may be pro-
rated by square foot or by defined Section of the plaza to be occupied at the
discretion of the Commissioner. An additional non-refundable application fee of
$25 shall be required for events determined by the Commissioner to require a
hearing before the Committee on Special Events and shall be paid to the
Director of the Mayor’s Office of Tourism and Special Events. Rental of the
Plaza for ticketed events or events longer than two days shall also be subject
to the appropriate rental fees as established by the Commissioner of Property
Management pursuant to Subsection 11-7.14. All events are subject to any rules
or regulations as established by the Commissioner with regard to custody and
care of City Hall Plaza.
(Ord. 2012 c. 4)
   (Q)   Claims. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving and indexing a claim
against the City (excepting claims of indemnification for municipal employees
and retired municipal employees) or, for filing a demand for compensation upon
the Mayor, shall be $15; provided, however, that in the event a decision is
rendered on behalf of the claimant, the cost of said fee shall be made part of
the compensation awarded as a result thereof; and provided further that an
otherwise adequate notice shall not be deemed untimely if unaccompanied by said
fee. The same fee shall be applied to filing a sworn statement under M.G.L.
Chapter 159, Section 99 or receiving and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 159,
Section 98 a written notice or intention to claim a right of action under
Section 96 of said Chapter against a railroad or railway.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (R)   Closing out sales. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving and filing
an inventory, bond and statement under M.G.L. Chapter 93, Section 28A for a
sale with any such designation as is set forth in said Section 28A shall be
$100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 3; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (S)   Club license. The fee for a license granted by the licensing board
under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 21E to a club, society, association or other
organization to dispense food and beverages to be consumed on the premises
shall be $100.
   (T)   Combustible metals, permit to process. The fee for an annual permit
granted by the head of the Fire Department under Section 6.02 of the Boston
Fire Prevention Code to melt, cast, heat treat, machine and grind more than ten
pounds of, but not limited to, aluminum, iron, magnesium, titanium, zinc and
zirconium per working day or to do any one or more said things shall be $750
per year in which such permit may be exercised.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 20; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 7; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 11; Ord. 2011
c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 10)
   (U)   Commercial bicycle messenger. See “Bicycle Messenger”.
   (V)   Commercial bicycle messenger service. See “Uniform Commercial Code”.
   (W)   Commercial Code. See Financing Statement under “Uniform Commercial
Code”.
   (X)   Commissions of Constables. The fee of the City Clerk for issuing the
commission of a constable shall be $450.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 21; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 §
4; Ord. 2003 c. 23 § 1)
   (Y)   Commissions of weighers and the like. The fee of the City Clerk for
issuing the commission of a Weigher, Measurer or Surveyor appointed under
M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 85, or of a Deputy Weigher of Fish appointed under
M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 89, or of a Weigher of Beef appointed under M.G.L.
Chapter 94, Section 140, or of a Weigher of Grain appointed under M.G.L.
Chapter 94, Section 219, or of a Weigher of Coal appointed under M.G.L. Chapter
94, Section 238, or of an Inspector of Lime appointed under M.G.L. Chapter 94,
Section 262, or of a Measurer of Wood and Bark provided for by M.G.L. Chapter
94, Section 296, or of a Measurer of Leather appointed under M.G.L. Chapter 95,
Section 1, or of a Weigher of Vessels appointed under M.G.L. Chapter 102,
Section 6 shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 5)
   (Z)   Common victualler’s license. The fee for a common victualler’s license
granted by the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 2 shall,
effective July 1, 1982, be a primary fee of $60 annually, plus an additional
fee of $1 per annum, per seat, or place for the accommodation of patrons;
provided, however, that no establishment shall pay more than $500 per annum in
additional fees. The primary fee for any such license granted after January 31
in any year shall be, for each calendar month in which such license may be
exercised, one-twelfth of the primary fee for an annual permit. In the case of
an establishment which prepares on-premises food or drink for on premises
consumption, if as sold, such food or drink is ready for take-out, there shall
be a minimum fee of $170; provided, however, that establishments which sell
exclusively ice cream products shall be subject to the primary fee and
additional fee of $1 per seat, or place, for accommodation of patrons. Any fee
received in 1982 which exceeds the amounts due when prorated and calculated for
the period commencing July 1, 1982, shall be abated and applied as credit
toward subsequent fee renewals or shall be returned to licensees; provided that
claim for same is filed with the Licensing Board of the city prior to January
1, 1983.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 1, c. 9; Ord. 1981 c. 35; Ord. 1982 c. 27)
   (AA)   Community antennas television system. The annual fee for a license
granted by the Mayor of the city under M.G.L. Chapter 166A to construct,
install, operate and maintain a cable television system in the public ways and
places of the city shall be 3% of the annual gross revenue of the licensee.
GROSS REVENUE shall be defined under such license. The fee shall be payable as
established under such license.
(Ord. 1982 c. 35)
   (BB)   Constable training course fee. The fee for the Constable training
course shall be set by the Mayor and shall not exceed $100.
(Ord. 1982 c. 9; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 22)
   (CC)   Copies of duplicates of licenses and permits. Except as otherwise
expressly provided by ordinance or statute, the fee for a certified copy or
duplicate of any license or permit shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 11)
   (DD)   Cows, permit to keep. The fee for an annual permit from the Board of
Health and Hospitals to keep cows, whether granted under Subsection 16-1.13 or
under a regulation made by such Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section
31, shall be $25 for each cow.
(Ord. 1976 c.11; CBC 1985 18-1.3)
18-1.4   “D” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Dancing school license. The fee for a dancing school license granted
by the Mayor under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 185H shall be $100 except that
in the case of a dancing school exclusively for children under 18 such fee
shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (B)   Day care agencies. The fee for a license to conduct an agency giving
day care to children granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L.
Chapter 111, Section 59 shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (C)   Deaths. See “Births, Marriages and Deaths”.
   (D)   Decorations, furnishing and interior finish, Test For. The charge to
be paid for a determination by the testing laboratory in the Fire Department of
the flammability of a sample of decorative material required by lawful rules of
the head of said Department to have a letter of approval before use in a public
building or place of assembly shall be $25. If on-site inspection is required
the fee shall be $120.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 24; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 12;
Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 12)
   (E)   Directional sign. The charge to be paid for the erection by the
Commissioner of Traffic and Parking of a directional sign upon the request of a
charitable, religious, educational, literary, recreational, social, civic or
veterans’ organization or of a hospital shall be $150 which shall include
maintenance for five years.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 33; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 23)
   (F)   Dog license. The fee for a dog license issued by the Animal Care and
Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department under M.G.L. Chapter 140,
Section 147 shall be, in the case of a neutered or spayed dog for which the
certificate required by M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 139 has been filed with the
Animal Care and Control Unit, $15; and in the case of an intact dog, $30. A dog
license shall be issued without charge in the case of a service animal as
defined in 28 C.F.R. pt. 35, Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability in
State and Local Government Services, and § 35.104. Pursuant to the provisions
in M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 139(c), no fee shall be charged for a license
for a dog owned by a person aged 70 years or older.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1996 c. 8 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2000 c. 4 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2004 c.
13 § 3; Ord. 2014 c. 15 §§ 18-20; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 14)
   (G)   Dog license, change in record of. The fee of the Animal Care and
Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department for changing under M.G.L.
Chapter 140, Section 138 the record of a dog license to show the name and
address of a new owner or keeper shall be $8.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1996 c. 8 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2000 c. 4 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2004 c.
13 § 3; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 18; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 14)
   (H)   Dogs, spayed female. The fee of the Animal Care and Control Unit for
receiving and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 139 a certificate or
statement that a female dog has been spayed and thereby deprived of the power
of propagation shall be $8.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1996 c. 8 § 8; Ord. 2000 c. 4 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2004 c. 13 §
3; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 19)
   (I)   Dog tag, substitute. The fee for a substitute dog tag furnished by the
Animal Care and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 137 shall be $8.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1996 c. 8 §§ 7, 8; Ord. c. 4 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2004 c. 13 §
3; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 18; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 14)
   (J)   Dog transfer license. The fee for a dog transfer license granted by
the Animal Care and Control Unit of the Parks and Recreation Department under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 146 shall be $8.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1996 c. 8 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2000 c. 4 §§ 7, 8; Ord. 2004 c.
13 § 3; Ord. 2014 c. 15 § 18; Ord. 2019 c. 4 § 14)
   (K)   Dry-cleaning and dry-dyeing plant permit. The fee for a permit granted
by the Chief of the Fire Department under paragraph (c) of Section 16.03 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to operate a dry-cleaning or dry-dyeing plant shall
be $675 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c.11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 25; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 13;
Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 13)
   (L)   Dump, assignment of place for. The fee for the assignment by the Board
of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 150A of a place as a
dumping ground for garbage, rubbish or other refuse shall be $500.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (M)   Dump permit. The fee for an annual permit granted by the Board of
Health and Hospitals to deposit or dump refuse or noxious or decaying liquid or
solid matter or house dirt, house offal or other house refuse matter, granted
under Section 23-1 of these ordinances, shall be $400.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1991 c. 5 §§ 12, 28)
   (N)   Duplicate receipt. The charge to be paid for the issuance by any Board
or Officer of the city of a duplicate receipt for any payment shall be $1.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; CBC 1985 18-1.4)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Acts of 1986.
18-1.5   “E” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Eggs, license to break and can. The fee for an annual license granted
by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 89 to
carry on an establishment for the breaking and canning of eggs shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (B)   Elections, research of records of. The charge of the Board of Election
Commissioners for special information which is not normally compiled for public
distribution and which requires research services of a Board employee shall be
$25 per staff hour, or any portion thereof, attributed to the production of
such information, plus any additional charges incidental thereto; provided,
however, that if the research services required are for 30 minutes or less,
such charge shall be $10.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 4 § 1)
   (C)   Electrical wiring and fixtures, written notice of approval or
disapproval of installation or repair of. The fee of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for giving under M.G.L. Chapter 143, Section 3L written
notice of his or her approval or disapproval of the installation or repair of
electrical wiring or fixtures shall be as follows:
      (1)   Meter loop. A primary fee of $10, plus for each meter loop approved
or disapproved, $5;
      (2)   Service. A primary fee of $20, plus for each service approved or
disapproved, if rated over 240 volts, $0.75 for each ampere of the ampacity of
such service at its connection with the electricity supply system; and for each
service approved or disapproved, if rated 240 volts or less, $0.25 for each
ampere of the ampacity of such service at its connection with the electricity
supply system;
      (3)   No service. In cases when work does not include the service, the
fee shall be based on the rating of the panels installed, as calculated in
division (C)(2) above;
      (4)   Installation/replacement fees. In cases in which only outlets,
fixtures and/or receptacles are being installed or replaced, there shall be a
primary fee of $20 plus an additional fee of $1 per each outlet, fixture and/or
receptacle replaced or installed. This fee shall not exceed the amount which
would have been computed under division (C)(2) above;
      (5)   Computation of fees. All fee computations shall be based on the
nominal voltages 550, 480, 240, 208, 115 and the like; and
      (6)   Other fees. When an installation involves specialized equipment and
the above fees are not applicable, then the fee shall be computed as outlined
in Subsection 18-1.2(BB), Building and Demolition Permit. The fee of the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services for receiving an application for a
special annual permit to maintain electrical systems shall be $300. Holders of
such a maintenance permit shall be required to maintain accurate and up-to-date
logs of all work performed, which shall be available for inspection without
notice by inspectors during normal business hours. The fee for giving under
said Section 3L written notice of his or her approval or disapproval of an
installation to remain in place for 180 days or less, shall be, in the case of
television lighting, a primary fee of $20, plus $50 for each 24-hour period
during the whole or any part of which such installation is to remain in place;
and in every other case, a primary fee of $25, plus an additional fee of $20
for each 30-day period during the whole or any part of which such installation
is to remain in place.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 5; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (D)   Electrologist’s license. The fee of the City Clerk for recording under
M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 87hhh a license to practice electrolysis or for
issuing thereunder a certified copy of such a license or for receiving and
filing thereunder such a certified copy shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 5)
   (E)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; repealed by Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 6)
   (F)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; repealed by Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 7)
   (G)   Entertainment license.
      (1)   The fees for a seven-day license issued by the Licensing Board
under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 183A shall be as follows.
         (a)   The fee for a jukebox, television, radio and music provided by
electrical or mechanical means shall be $120.
         (b)   The fee for live musical entertainment not exceeding three
instrumentalists shall be $400 and shall include the prior category.
         (c)   The fee for live musical entertainment exceeding three
instrumentalists and/or including dancing by patrons shall be $800 in an
establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of 500 persons and $1,200 in an
establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of over 500 to 2,000 persons
and $2,000 in an establishment, with a maximum allowable capacity of over 2,000
persons, and said fees shall include the prior categories.
         (d)   The fee for a floor show, including any type of live performance
other than those specifically named in this Subsection, shall be $1,200 in an
establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of 500 persons and $1,600 in an
establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of over 500 to 2,000 persons
and $2,000 in an establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of over 2,000
persons, and said fees shall include the prior categories.
         (e)   The fee for a widescreen television larger than 25 inches on the
diagonal shall be $180.
         (f)   The fee for a cassette-operated television shall be $180 but
shall be waived if payment is made under the prior category.
         (g)   The fee for an exhibition or trade show shall be $250 in an
establishment with a maximum allowable capacity of 500 persons, and $1,500 in
an establishment with a maximum allowable capacity over 500 persons.
         (h)   The fee for a professional athletic or sporting events license
shall be $800.
         (i)   The fee for a non-professional athletic or sporting events
license shall be $200.
         (j)   The fees for entertainment which is individually controlled by a
patron including entertainment provided by a coin-controlled apparatus shall be
as follows: where the entertainment is provided by automatic amusement devices,
as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 177A, the fee shall be $60 for six to
12 devices and $120 for 13 to 20 devices and $300 for over 20 devices;
provided, however, that all such devices must be licensed and must pay all
licensing fees pursuant to Subsection 18-1.1(HH); where the entertainment is
provided by means of any other type of device or apparatus, the fee shall be
$150 per device or apparatus.
         (k)   The fee for a theater offering to view motion pictures or live
performances shall be no less than $100 nor more than $2,000, as deemed
reasonable by the licensing board, taking into account the cost of regulating
the theater and all other relevant factors.
      (2)   With the approval of the issuing authority, such annual fees may be
paid quarterly or semi-annually. The fees fixed by this division (G)(2) shall
be in addition to any sum payable to the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (H)   Environment Department, certificate of appropriateness/design approval
and/or exemption. The fee for the application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness/Design Approval and/or Exemption by the secretary of the Beacon
Hill or Back Bay Architectural Commissions or the Boston Landmarks Commission
(including any of its district commissions) or any Commission established under
M.G.L. Chapter 40C shall be: in the case of minor modifications to the exterior
architectural features of a building and/or site, including painting, interior
window signs, new window blinds/shutters, storm windows and doors, residential
window grates, window and door screens, planting boxes and parterres, paving,
intercom and security devices, satellite dishes and TV antennas, lanterns and
lighting, screen, benches, plaques, painting, minor roof repair (including
flashing, gutters and downspouts), minor masonry repair (including cleaning,
repointing and resurfacing of lintels and sills), annual review of outdoor
cafés and minor landscaping (including planting a limited number of trees and/
or removal of noncontributing trees), $25; in the case of design changes to the
exterior architectural features of a building and/or site, including changes to
or installation of doors, windows, fire balconies, exterior signs, marquees,
awnings, roof decks, handrails, fences, porches, masonry garden walls/retaining
walls, lowered window sills, changes to siding or roofing materials, skylights,
solar panels, telecommunications equipment and large antennae, ramps and
sidewalks, new chimneys and flues, residential vents, meters, mechanical/HVAC
equipment, major masonry repair (including resurfacing of stoops and brownstone
facades, replacement of front stoops) and major landscaping (including major
planting or removal of trees, changes in landforms), $50; in the case of major
alterations to the exterior design or form of the buildings, including
replacement masonry front steps, new roof headhouses and penthouses, new
storefronts, front-yard excavations, commercial exhaust vents, new or raised
dormers, new window and door openings, new terraces, new driveways and/or
parking areas and demolition, changes or addition of floor area, $100; in the
case of major construction, including any new buildings, garages, infill
structures, major development projects or demolition, $250. In cases where the
cost of new construction or major exterior changes exceed $500,000, the fee
shall be one-half of one percent of the fair cost of the work; provided,
however, that in no case shall the fee be more than $5,000; in special cases of
demolition or removal of unsafe or unsightly architectural elements, or in
cases of hardship, the Commissions, or their designees, may waive or reduce the
fee; and in cases of Certificate of Appropriateness/Design Approval for work on
a designated interior space not requiring a building permit from the
Inspectional Services Department, $25 and in all other cases $50.
      (2)   There shall be no fee for an application for a certificate of
exemption.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 5 § 1; Ord. 2003 c. 21 § 1)
   (I)   Environmental Department, order of conditions. The fee for an
application for an order of conditions with the secretary of the Conservation
Commission for the use or development of lands or waters under the control and
jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission under M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 8C
shall be in accordance with the following schedule: for projects with a fair
cost of $1,000 or less, $25; and for projects with a fair cost of more than
$1,000 but not more than $50,000, $50; and for projects with a fair cost of
more than $50,000 but not more than $100,000, $75; and for projects with a fair
cost of more than $100,000, .075% of the fair cost provided, however, that in
no case shall the fee be more than $1,500.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4)
   (J)   Explosives. See “Flammable and/or Explosive Materials”.
(CBC 1985 18-1.5)
18-1.6   “F” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Farmer’s markets, seasonal or annual fee for permit to vend. 
      (1)   The seasonal fee (April 1 to November 30) to vend products at a
farmer’s market granted by the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall be
$100 per market location. The seasonal fee to vend products at up to five
markets is $250; provided that between one and two markets are designated as
underserved by the Commissioner, or his or her designee. This fee shall be
waived if the vendor is a permit-exempt farmer exclusively vending whole uncut
fruits and vegetables.
      (2)   The annual fee to vend products at a farmer’s market shall be $200
per market location. The annual fee to vend products at up to five markets
shall be $500; provided that between one and two markets are designated as
underserved by the Commissioner, or his or her designee. This fee shall be
waived if the vendor is a permit-exempt farmer exclusively vending whole uncut
fruits and vegetables.
(Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (B)   Federal tax lien. The fee of the City Clerk for filing under M.G.L.
Chapter 255, Section 39B a notice of a federal tax lien, or a certificate of
the discharge of such a lien, or a certificate releasing specific property from
such a lien, shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (C)   Fee for permit or certificate when work begun without required permit.
The fee of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services under any ordinance,
statute or other provision of law for a permit or certificate issued by the
Department of Inspectional Services in cases in which the applicant has begun
work before acquiring the necessary permit or permits, or has begun to use or
occupy or change the use of occupancy of a building or structure without the
required permit or certificate of inspection, or for which the fair cost of the
authorized construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition has
been undervalued by an amount greater than 25% as stated in the approved
permit, or has otherwise exceeded the terms of the permit, shall be double the
fee which would otherwise be charged for such permit or certificate. The
Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall promulgate the necessary rules and
regulations for the timely and equitable enforcement of this Section.
(Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 8)
   (D)   Feed mill, permit to operate. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 6.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to operate a feed mill shall be $65 for each calendar month in which such
permit may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 14; Ord 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 14)
   (E)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (F)   Ferris wheel license. The fee for a license granted by the Mayor under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 186 to establish, keep open and maintain a ferris
wheel at a carnival shall be $15 for each day on which such license may be
exercised. The fee for a license so granted to establish, keep open and
maintain a ferris wheel other than at a carnival shall be $50 for each monthly
period in which such license may be exercised, except that in the case of a
ferris wheel exclusively for children under 13 years of age, such fee shall be
$25 for each such monthly period.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (G)   Fibers, permits to handle and store combustible. The fee for an annual
permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 5.02 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to store or handle in excess of 100 cubic feet of
combustible fibers shall be a primary fee of $80 and an additional fee of $35
for each 100,000 cubic feet thereof. The fee for a permit granted as aforesaid
for any period other than a year shall be, for each calendar month in which
such permit may be exercised, one-twelfth of the fee for an annual permit.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 26; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 8; Ord. 1997 c.
2 § 15; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 15)
   (H)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (I)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (J)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1990 c. 10; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (K)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (L)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (M)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (N)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (O)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (P)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
Editor’s note:
Fees and charges for financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial
Code (“UCC”): Effective in 2001, state law took away the requirement that
lenders file with the City and Town Clerks. These items have not yet been
repealed but remain on the books. See Chapter 26 of the Acts and Resolves of
2001, Section 6.
   (Q)   Firearm identification card. The fee for the issuance by the Police
Commissioner of a firearm identification card under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
129B shall be $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 29)
   (R)   Firearms, license to carry or possess. The fee for a license to carry
firearms in the commonwealth or to possess therein a machine gun granted by the
Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 131 shall be $50,
excepting Police Officers and retired Police Officers of the city who shall be
exempt from the requirements of paying said fee.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11, c. 17; Ord. 1979 c. 18; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 30)
   (S)   Firearms, license to possess assault weapon. The fee for a license to
possess an assault weapon or weapons in the city granted by the Police
Commissioner of the city, or his or her designee, pursuant to Section 6 of
Chapter 596 of the Acts of 1989, shall be $25. Such license shall be for five
years. A person having more than one assault weapon shall be required to apply
for only one license, which license shall be applicable to all of the assault
weapons which that person lists with the Police Commissioner, or his or her
designee, at the time of application.
(Ord. 1990 c. 4 § 1)
   (T)   Firearms, license to sell, rent or lease. The fee for a license to
sell, rent or lease firearms, rifles, shotguns or machine guns granted by the
Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 122 shall be $300.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 31)
   (U)   Firearms, permit to purchase, rent or lease. The fee for a permit to
purchase, rent or lease a firearm granted by the Police Commissioner under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 131A shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (V)   Fire escape certification charge. All exterior bridges, steel or
wooden stairways, fire escapes and egress balconies shall be examined and/or
tested, and certified for structural adequacy and safety every five years, by a
commonwealth-registered professional engineer, or others qualified and
acceptable to the Building Official; said engineer or others shall then submit
an affidavit to the Building Official together with a fee in the amount of $50
within 30 days of the inspection.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 9; Ord. 2007 c. 1)
   (W)   Fire extinguisher servicer’s certificate of competency. The fee of the
Assistant Chief in charge of the Fire Prevention Division of the Fire
Department for issuing under Article 8 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code a
certificate of competency as a fire extinguisher servicers whether original or
renewal shall be $65.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 16; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 16)
   (X)   Fire, extinguishing system, permit to install or alter. The fee for a
permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 14.02 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to install or alter any part of any fire
extinguishing system shall be $125.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 27; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 17; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 17)
   (Y)   Fire fighting exhibition license. The fee for a license granted by the
Mayor under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 186 to establish, keep open and
maintain an outdoor exhibition of fire fighting for the amusement of the public
shall be $25 for each day on which such license may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (Z)   Fire in open air for burning leaves, and the like, permit for. There
shall be no fee for a permit granted by the Fire Commissioner under Chapter 355
of the Acts of 1943 to set, maintain or increase a fire or fires in the open
air if such permit limits all fires thereunder to a single estate and to the
burning of leaves, grass and brush from such estate and restricts each fire
thereunder to 4 square feet in area.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (AA)   Fire (large) in open air, permit for. The fee for a permit by the
Fire Commissioner under Chapter 355 of the Acts of 1943 to set, maintain or
increase a fire or fires in the open air other than in an incinerator shall,
except in the case of a permit coming within division (Z) above or division
(CC) below, be $80 for the first monthly period and $15 for each additional
monthly period in which it may be exercised; provided that there shall be no
fee for a permit granted as aforesaid to set, maintain or increase a fire or
fires in connection with a patriotic or public celebration.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 18; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 18)
   (BB)   Fire report. The fee for a copy of a fire report issued by the Chief
of the Boston Fire Department shall be $15 per page.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 28; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 19; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 19)
   (CC)   Fire (small or torch) in open air, permit for. The fee for a permit
granted by a Fire Commissioner under Chapter 355 of the Acts of 1943 to set,
maintain or increase in the open air a flame or flames in connection with one
or more appliances or devices using or producing flame or a fire or fires not
exceeding 4 square feet in area shall be $50 for each monthly period in which
such permit may be exercised; provided that if such permit limits such flame or
flames or such fire or fires to a single estate, the fee for such permit shall
be $15 for each said period.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 20; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 20)
   (DD)   Fire suppression system, permit for installation, alteration or
repair of. The fee of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services for receiving
an application for a permit under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s Building
Code, being 780 CMR, to install, alter or repair a sprinkler system or other
fire extinguishing apparatus shall be a primary fee of $20, and an additional
fee of $1 for each sprinkler head, hose or chemical extinguishing outlet.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (EE)   Fire suppression system, testing and inspection of. The fees of the
Inspectional Services Department for the annual testing and inspection of
automatic sprinkler systems or other fire extinguishing apparatus under Section
1204.5 of Article 12 of Chapter 11 of the Ordinances of 1969 (Boston Building
Code), as amended, shall be a primary fee of $25 and an additional fee of $1
for each sprinkler head, hose or chemical extinguishing outlet.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 30)
   (FF)   Fireworks bond. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving and filing a
bond given under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 40 and conditioned upon the
payment of any judgment for loss, damage or injury resulting from the storage
or manufacture of fireworks shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (GG)   Fireworks display permit. The fee for a permit granted by the head of
the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A for a supervised
display of fireworks shall be $110.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 21; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 21)
   (HH)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (II)   Flammable and/or explosive materials, annual registration of license
for. The fee of the Fire Commissioner for receiving under M.G.L. Chapter 148,
Section 13 a certificate of registration setting forth the name and address of
the holder of a license granted under said Section 13 or corresponding
provisions of earlier law shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 22)
   (JJ)   Flammable and/or explosive materials, annual registration of,
unlicensed but lawful use of land for. The fee of the Fire Commissioner for
receiving pursuant to Section 2 of Chapter 394 of the Acts of 1936 from the
owner or occupant of a building or other structure lawfully used for any of the
purposes specified in M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 13 without a license a
certificate reciting such use shall be one-half of the fee which would be
payable under division (KK) below for a license granted under said Section 13
for such use.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (KK)   Flammable and/or explosive materials, license for. The fee for a
license granted under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 13 by the Committee on
Licenses in the Public Safety Commission to use land for the keeping, storage,
manufacture or sale of one or more of the articles named in M.G.L. Chapter 148,
Section 9 shall be a primary fee of $200 and an additional fee equal, in the
case of fluids, to $60 for each 1,000 of the first 10,000 gallons thereof, $20
for each 1,000 of the next 90,000 gallons thereof, $20 for each 10,000 of the
next 4,900,000 gallons thereof; and $20 for each 100,000 gallons thereof in
excess of 5,000,000 gallons; and equal, in the case of solids and gases, to $30
for each 100 of the first 1,000 cubic feet thereof; $20 for each 1,000 of the
next 499,000 cubic feet thereof; and $15 for each 10,000 cubic feet thereof in
excess of 500,000 cubic feet; provided that the fee for a license granted as
aforesaid which relates exclusively to all or part of an estate owned or
occupied by the same person or persons for the whole or part or parts of which
a license or licenses held by such person or persons are in force under said
Section 13 shall be a primary fee of $200 and an additional fee equal to the
amount by which the additional fee which would be payable under this division
(KK) for a license granted under said Section 13 to use such estate for the
aggregate authorized by such license would be increased by the inclusion of a
new license.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 40; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
9; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 22; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 23)
   (LL)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (MM)   Flammable materials, permit for. The fee for a permit granted by the
Head of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A or Section 23
solely for the keeping, storage and use of not exceeding 2,000 gallons of
liquefied petroleum gas shall be $20 per year, and said fee shall be payable by
the assessed owner of the property upon which such material is stored provided,
however, that in the case of an assessed owner 65 years or older, low/moderate
income or handicapped, as those terms are defined in Chapter 34 of the
Ordinances of 1984, such fee shall be $10 per year; and further provided that
in the case of a tenant 65 years or older, low/moderate income or handicapped,
as those terms are defined in Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984, the
assessed owner may transfer not greater than 50% of the fee to the tenant.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 32; Ord. 1987 c. 10 § 1 [126]; Ord. 1990 c.
5, Ch. 6 § 10; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 23; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 24)
   (NN)   Flammable materials, permit to spray or dip utilizing. The fee for a
permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 17.02 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to spray or dip utilizing flammable or combustible
liquids shall be $750 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 33; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
11; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 24; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 25)
   (OO)   Flashpoint determination. The charge to be paid for a determination
by the testing laboratory in the Fire Department of the flashpoint of any
flammable fluid or solid shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 25; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 26)
   (PP)   Flour mill, permit to operate. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 10.03 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to operate a flour mill shall be $675 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 35; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 26; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 27)
   (QQ)   Food service establishment, permit for.
      (1)   The fee for a permit granted by the Boston Public Health Commission
for the operation of a food service establishment under the State Sanitary Code
shall be:
         (a)   For any establishment serving only beverages and in the case of
an establishment serving both food and beverages, other than those defined in
divisions (QQ)(1)(b) through (QQ)(1)(e) below, $1 per annum, per seat or place
for the accommodation of patrons; provided, however, that no establishment
shall pay a fee of less than $200 nor more than $1,000;
         (b)   In the case of an establishment which prepares on premises food
or beverage for off premises consumption or for consumption on premises, if, as
sold, such food or drink is ready for off premises consumption, $200 if the
gross annual sales volume in the previous calendar year was less than $200,000;
$300 if the gross annual sales volume was $200,000 or more but less than
$400,000; $400 if the gross annual sales volume was $400,000 or more but less
than $600,000; $500 if the gross annual sales volume was $600,000 or more but
less than $800,000; $600 if the gross annual sales volume was $800,000 or more
but less than $1,000,000; $700 if the gross annual sales volume was $1,000,000
or more but less than $2,000,000; $900 if the gross annual sales was $2,000,000
or more but less than $3,000,000; and $1,200 if the gross annual sales volume
was $3,000,000 or more;
         (c)   In the case of an establishment operated by or within a
hospital, nursing home, rest home, rehabilitation center, halfway house or
other facility providing mental or physical health care on an overnight basis,
whether such establishment is operated directly by the facility or by contract
or concession, the amount as set forth above for sales to employees, families
or patients or clients, or the public, and, in addition, for services to
patients or clients, $50 for the first ten beds or accommodations for patients
or clients plus an additional $20 for every additional 50 beds or
accommodations for patients or clients; provided however, that no such
establishment shall pay a fee in excess of $200 for such services to patients
and clients;
         (d)   In the case of an establishment operated by or within a day care
agency or by or within a clinic providing mental and physical health services
on an outpatient basis only, $100; and
         (e)   Not including any other permits and/or fees as required by law,
in the case of an establishment operated by a religious or charitable
organization providing food service programs and/or accommodations exclusively
for homeless, destitute, aged persons and/or minors, $10. However, no fee shall
be imposed on any establishment covered by M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 328.
      (2)   The fee for a food service permit under the methods described by
divisions (QQ)(1)(a) or (QQ)(1)(b) above shall only be determined by one of the
said methods.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 1, c. 9, c. 15; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1990 c. 5,
Ch. 7 § 10; Ord. 2007 c. 9; Ord. 2008 c.12)
   (RR)   Fortune teller’s license. The fee for a fortune teller’s license
granted by the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 185I shall be
$200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (SS)   Frozen desserts, license to manufacture for sale at retail. The fee
for a license granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter
94, Section 65I to manufacture frozen desserts and frozen dessert mix, or
either, for sale at retail shall be $100 for each premises specified in the
license.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (TT)   Frozen desserts, license to manufacture for sale at wholesale. The
fee for a license granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L.
Chapter 94, Section 65I to manufacture frozen desserts and frozen dessert mix,
or either, for sale at wholesale shall be, for the manufacture of not more than
25,000 gallons, $225; for the manufacture of more than 25,000 gallons, but not
more than 100,000 gallons, $300; for the manufacture of more than 100,000
gallons but not more than 250,000 gallons, $400; for the manufacture of more
than 250,000 gallons, but not more than 500,000 gallons, $500; and for the
manufacture of more than 500,000 gallons, $600.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (UU)   Frozen desserts, permit to have for sale. The fee for a permit to
have frozen desserts and frozen dessert mix, or either, in custody or
possession with intent to sell or to expose for sale or to deliver in the city
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under regulation made by such
Board under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 65Q shall be $30.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11, c. 12; Ord. 1977 c. 9; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7
§ 11; Ord. 2007 c.9)
   (VV)   Fuel oil burner, permit to install or alter. The fee for a permit
granted by the head of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
10A for the installation or alteration of a fuel oil burner shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 36; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
12; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 27; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 28)
   (WW)   Fumigation of certain buildings, permit for. The fee for a permit
granted by the head of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
10A to fumigate a warehouse, factory or commercial building by the use of
volatile inflammable liquid or a material requiring flame shall be $85.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 38; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
13; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 28; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 29)
   (XX)   Fumigation, permit to engage in business of. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 18.03 of the Boston
Fire Prevention Code to engage in the business of fumigation and/or thermal
insecticidal fogging shall be $750 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 37; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
14; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 29; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 30)
   (YY)   Fumigation room, permit for. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 18.03 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to maintain a fumigation room, vault or chamber shall be $75 for each
calendar month in which such permit may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 39; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
15; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 30; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 31)
   (ZZ)   Funeral Director’s license. The fee for a license to act as a Funeral
Director in Boston granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L.
Chapter 114, Section 49 shall be $200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; CBC 1985 18-1.6; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 5 § 12)
18-1.7   “G” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Garage inspections. The charge to be paid for each inspection by the
Boston Fire Department of a self-service type service station pursuant to 527
CMR 5.05 shall be $200 for the initial inspection and $100 for each annual
inspection thereafter.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 16; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 31; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c.
9 § 32)
   (B)   Garage permits. The fees for a permit granted by a Committee on
Licenses in the Public Safety Commission under Chapter 577 of the Acts of 1913,
as amended, to erect or maintain a garage for the storage, keeping or care of
motor vehicles (including a lubritorium or repair shop) shall be a primary fee
of $75 and an additional fee equal to $6 for each inspection, repair,
lubricating or washstand bay thereof, and an additional fee for each calendar
month in which such permit may be exercised of $0.50 for each parking space
therein; provided that the fees for a permit so granted to erect or maintain a
private garage for the storage or keeping of automobiles only shall be a
primary fee of $25, and an additional fee for each calendar month in which such
permit may be exercised of $0.50 for each parking space therein, except that
the total fee for a permit so granted to erect or maintain as an appurtenance
to a dwelling a garage for the storage or keeping of not more than two
automobiles shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (C)   Garbage and the like, permit to transport. The fee for a permit to
remove or transport garbage, offal or other offensive substances through the
streets of the city granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L.
Chapter 111, Section 31A shall be $200, for each vehicle used in such removal
and transportation; provided, however, that for a vehicle which is under
contract with the city, no fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (D)   Gases. See “Flammable Materials”, also “Liquefied Petroleum Gas
Equipment”.
   (E)   Gasfitting installation, alteration or repair permit. The fees for
receiving an application for a permit under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s
Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to install, alter or repair permanent
gasfitting in new construction shall be a primary fee of $20 plus an additional
fee of $5 for each appliance or meter installed, altered or substantially
repaired. The fee for receiving an application under Section 105 of the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to install a liquefied
petroleum gas supply shall be a primary fee of $20 and an additional fee of $5
for each 100 pounds of gas or fraction thereof to be stored.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 17; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 13;
Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (F)   Gas, propane, storage of in buildings under construction or
renovation. The fee of the Building Commissioner for receiving an application
for a permit to store propane gas for use in buildings under construction or
renovation shall be $5, and an additional $2.50 for each heating apparatus or
appliance.
(Ord. 1997 c. 17)
   (G)   Gasoline tank, permit to remove or relocate. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
21O to remove or relocate an underground tank which has been used for the
keeping or storage of gasoline shall be $110 for each tank.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 40; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 32;
Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 33)
   (H)   Goats, permit to keep. The fee for an annual permit to keep goats
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under Subsection 16-1.8 shall be
$5 for each goat.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (I)   Golf Course, William J. Devine (Franklin Park).
      (1)   The fee for a license from the Parks and Recreation Commission
permitting the licensee to use throughout the year for which it is given the
William J. Devine Golf Course for the playing of golf shall be, in the case of
a permit who is a resident in the city, $150 for a seven-day license and $125
for a five-day, Monday through Friday license and in the case of any other
person, $275 for a seven-day license and $250 for a five day, Monday through
Friday license; provided, however, that in the case of a resident of the city
65 years of age or older, the fee for a seven-day license shall be $75.
      (2)   The fee for the use of such golf course for the playing of golf by
a person without such a license shall be, on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, $5 in the case of a person resident of the city and $8 in the case of
any other person and, on any other day than Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
$3.50 in the case of a person resident in the city and $5 in the case of any
other person; provided that the fee for the use of such golf course by any
person commencing to play after 5:00 p.m. on any day other than a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday shall be $2.50.
      (3)   The fee to be charged by the Parks and Recreation Commission for
the exclusive use of a locker at the golf course throughout the year for which
it is given, shall be, in the case of a person resident in the city, $25 and in
the case of any other person, $30.
   (J)   Golf course, George Wright.
      (1)   The fee for a license from the Parks and Recreation Commission
permitting the licensee to use throughout the year for which its is given the
George Wright Golf Course for the playing of golf shall be, in the case of a
person who is a resident of the city, $300 for a seven-day license and $250 for
a five-day, Monday through Friday license and, in the case of any other person,
$400 for a seven-day license and $375 for a five day, Monday through Friday
license; provided, however, that in the case of a resident in the city 65 years
of age or older, the fee for a seven-day license shall be $150 and the fee for
a five day, Monday through Friday license shall be $125. In the case of any
member who is continuing a membership in good standing from 1980 to 1981, the
cost of any daily fee charges paid prior to implementation of this Section may
be applied to the cost of the 1981 membership fee.
      (2)   The fee for the use of such golf course for the playing of golf by
a person without such a license shall be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, $8 in the case of a resident of the city and $12 in the case of any
other person and, on any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, $5
in the case of a resident of the city and $9 in the case of any other person;
provided that the fee for the use of such golf course by any person commencing
to play after 5:00 p.m. on any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday shall be $3.50.
      (3)   The fee to be charged by the Parks and Recreation Commission for
the exclusive use of a locker at a golf course throughout the year for which it
is given shall be, in the case of a resident of the city, $30 and in the case
of any other person, $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 5, c. 8; Ord. 1981 c. 9)
   (K)   Use of George Wright Golf Course clubhouse. The charge to be paid for
the use of the clubhouse at George Wright Golf Course for a social, civic or
similar event shall be $250.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 9, s 2)
   (L)   Grain elevator permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of
the Fire Department under Section 6.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to
operate a grain elevator shall be $675 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 41; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 33; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 34)
   (M)   Gravel removal permit. The fee for a permit operated by the Building
Commissioner under Chapter 204 of the Acts of 1945 to excavate land to a depth
of more than 5 feet for the purposes of obtaining and removing sand, gravel or
loam shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (N)   Gunsmith’s license. The fee for a license to be in business as a
gunsmith granted by the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
122 shall be, in the case of a person licensed to sell, rent or lease firearms,
rifles, shotguns or machine guns, $50 and in the case of any other persons,
$100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; CBC 1985 18-1.7)
Editor’s note:
The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
18-1.8   “H” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Habitation, permit for hazardous operation or storage in or near place
of. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under
Section 21.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code for a hazardous operation or
storage in or near a building used for habitation shall be $75 for each
calendar month in which such permit may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 42; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6
§§ 17, 18; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 34; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 35)
   (B)   Hackney carriage license. The fee for a license granted by the Police
Commissioner under Chapter 392 of the Acts of 1930 to set up and use a vehicle
as a hackney carriage shall be $100 for each vehicle. The fee for every
amendment of any such license shall likewise be $20 for each vehicle, except
that, in cases where the amendment results solely from the substitution of one
vehicle for another, the fee therefor shall be $10 for each vehicle.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 43)
   (C)   Hackney carriage driver’s license. The fee for a license granted by
the Police Commissioner under Chapter 392 of the Acts of 1930 to drive or have
charge of a hackney carriage shall be $30.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 44)
   (D)   Halls and the like, in municipally-owned buildings; use of. The charge
to be paid to the exclusive use on a weekday of a hall with a seating capacity
of less than 500, in a municipally owned building, other than a library or
school or Faneuil Hall, shall be $60, except that the charge for such a use
ceasing before 6:00 p.m. shall be $30, and the charge for such a use commencing
after 5:00 p.m. shall be $50; and the charge to be paid for the exclusive use
of such a hall on a Sunday or legal holiday shall be $80, except that the
charge for such a use ceasing before 6:00 p.m. shall be $50, and the charge for
such a use commencing after 5:00 p.m. shall likewise be $50. The charge to be
paid for the exclusive use on a weekday of a hall with a seating capacity of
500 or more but less than 1,000 in a municipally owned building other than a
library or school or Faneuil shall be $100, except that the charge for such a
use ceasing before 6:00 p.m. shall be $50, and the charge for such a use
commencing after 5:00 p.m. shall be $70; and the charge to be paid for the
exclusive use of such a hall on a Sunday or legal holiday shall be $120, except
that the charge for such a use ceasing before 6:00 p.m. shall be $70, and the
charge for such a use commencing after 5:00 p.m. shall likewise be $70. The
charge to be paid for the exclusive use on a weekday of a hall with a seating
capacity of 1,000 or more in a municipally-owned building other than a library
or school or Faneuil Hall shall be $140, except that the charge for such a use
ceasing before 6:00 p.m. shall be $70, and the charge for such a use commencing
after 5:00 p.m. shall be $95, and the charge to be paid for the exclusive use
of such a hall on a Sunday or legal holiday shall be $160, except that the
charge for such a use ceasing before 5:00 p.m. shall be $90, and the charge for
such a use commencing after 5:00 p.m. shall likewise be $90. The charge to be
paid for the exclusive use on a weekday of Faneuil Hall shall be $500, except
that the charge for such a use ceasing before 5:00 p.m. shall be $250, and the
charge for such a use commencing after 5:00 p.m. shall be $350; and the charge
to be paid for the exclusive use of Faneuil Hall on a Saturday or Sunday or
legal holiday shall be $500, except that the charge for such use ceasing before
5:00 p.m. shall be $350. The Commissioner of Property Management, or his or her
designee, shall have the authority to assess supplementary fees to cover any
additional costs incurred for additional security, planning and/or maintenance
staff. The Commissioner of Property Management, or his or her designee, shall
have the authority to waive or reduce any of the fees imposed relative to the
use of Faneuil Hall due to economic hardship upon the applicant’s written
declaration of such hardship. All city sponsored uses of Faneuil Hall shall be
exempt from all fees. The word HALL as used in this division (D), shall not be
construed to include the municipal auditorium or any part thereof, but shall be
construed to included a gymnasium with seating accommodations.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 19; Ord. 2008 c. 16)
   (E)   Halls, large, presenting rock concerts, license for. The fee for a
license granted by the Mayor under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 181 for large
hall in which may, from time to time, be presented rock concerts, so called,
shall be $500 for each calendar year or part thereof in which such license is
to be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (F)   Hamburg. See “Sausages and Chopped Meat”.
   (G)   Handcart licenses. See “Wagon and Handcart Licenses”.
   (H)   Hawker’s or peddler’s license. The fee for an annual hawker’s or
peddler’s license granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under Section
16-2.1 shall be, if sales within the market limits as prescribed in Subsection
17-3.1 are authorized, $150; otherwise, $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 3; Ord. 1981 c. 11, c. 34; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 76)
   (I)   Hawker’s or peddlers number plates. The fee of the Board of Health and
Hospitals for assigning under Subsection 16-2.1 a number to a person hawking or
peddling any of the articles enumerated in M.G.L. Chapter 101, Section 17 shall
be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (J)   Hazardous operation or storage, permit for. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 1.05(b) or 21.01 of
the Boston Fire Prevention Code for a hazardous operation or storage shall be
$60 for each calendar month or fraction thereof in which such permit may be
exercised, or $720 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 45; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
19; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 35; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 36)
   (K)   Health inspection - compliance fee. The fee for the ISD re-inspection
required after an establishment has received violations for critical risk
factors, shall be $100.
(Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (L)   Health inspection - permit replacement fee. The fee for a duplicate
copy of any ISD issued permit shall be $10.
(Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (M)   Health inspection - renovation fee. Any existing establishment
undergoing renovations, which require a plan review and additional ISD
inspection, shall be charged an inspection fee of $75.
(Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (N)   Health inspection - variance fee. The fee for ISD inspection of a
special food product preparation process or a physical facility requirement
that require a variance from the Sanitary Code, as defined by the Federal Food
Code and codified as 105 CMR 590, shall be $75.
(Ord. 2007 c.9)
   (O)   Heating installation permit. The fee of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for receiving an application for a permit under Section
105 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to install a steam
boiler, furnace, heater or other heat-producing apparatus, the installation of
which is regulated by the commonwealth’s Building Code shall be a primary fee
of $10 plus an additional fee of $0.09 per each 1,000 BTU/hour or fraction
thereof of capacity of the system. The fee of said Commissioner for receiving
an application to install, alter or repair any oven or furnace used for
industrial purposes shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28)
   (P)   Hens. See “Poultry”.
   (Q)   Hotels, hospitals, dispensaries, day care agencies and the like,
inspection of. The fee to be paid to the Chief of the Fire Department for
inspecting, pursuant to Section 1.24(b) of the Boston Fire Prevention Code,
Section 11-5 or for inspecting, pursuant to any requirement of statute, any
hotel, hospital, dispensary, clinic, institution for unwed mothers, agency
giving day care to children, nursing home, infirmary, rest home, halfway house
or other group residence, or any similar facility, and for issuing a report or
certificate of said inspection, shall be $140 for each inspection per building
whether made annually, semi-annually, quarterly or at other intervals.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 46; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §§ 20, 21; Ord.
1997 c. 2 § 36; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 37)
   (R)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (S)   Hydrant disconnection. See “Sprinkler System Disconnection”.
(CBC 1985 18-1.8)
18-1.9   “I” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Ice cream. See “Frozen Desserts”.
   (B)   Incinerator, assignment of place for refuse disposal. The fee for the
assignment by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Section 150A as a site for a refuse disposal incinerator or refuse transfer
station shall be $500.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (C)   Incinerator permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Fire
Commissioner under Chapter 355 of the Acts of 1943 to set, maintain or increase
fires in an incinerator in the open shall be $20 for each calendar month in
which such permit may be exercised; and the fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 17.04 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to fire an incinerator not in the open shall likewise be $20 for each
calendar month in which such permit may be exercised; provided that when either
such permit is granted solely for an incinerator for the purpose of burning
rubbish from households on the estate on which it is located, the fee therefor
shall be: if granted for a period of 24 months, $20; if granted for a period of
less than 24, but more than 18 months, $15; if granted for a period of 18
months, $13; if granted for a period of less than 18, but more than 12 months,
$10; if granted for a period of 12 months, $8; if granted for a period of less
than 12, but more than six months, $5; if granted for a period of six months,
$3; and if granted for a period of less than six months, $2.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 37; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 38)
   (D)   Inflammables. See “Flammable and/or Explosive Materials”.
   (E)   Innholder’s license. The fee for an innholder’s license granted by the
Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 2 shall be $800.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35; CBC 1985 18-1.9)
18-1.10   “J” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Jitney license. The fee for a license granted by the Boston City
Council, with the approval of the Mayor, under M.G.L. Chapter 159A, Section 1
to operate a motor vehicle upon a public way for the carriage of passengers for
hire, in such a manner as to afford a means of transportation similar to that
afforded by a railway company, by indiscriminately receiving and discharging
passengers along the route on which the vehicle is operated or may be running,
or for transporting passengers for hire as a business between fixed and regular
termini shall be $500 and an additional $200 for each calendar year said
license continues in effect; and the fee for an amendment of any such license
shall be $100. In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 41, Section 13B the City Clerk
shall be and hereby is empowered to renew licenses issued under the provisions
of M.G.L. Chapter 159A, Section 1.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 7; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (B)   Junk collector’s license. The fee for an annual junk collector’s
license granted by the Police Commissioner under Subsection 17-4.1 shall be
$150.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 47)
   (C)   Junk shopkeeper’s license. The fee for an annual junk shopkeeper’s
license granted by the Police Commissioner under Subsection 17-4.1 shall be
$200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 48)
   (D)   Junk yard permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of the
Fire Department under Section 3.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to
conduct or maintain a junk yard shall be $900 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 49; CBC 1985 18-1.10; Ord.
1997 c. 2 § 38; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 39)
18-1.11   “K” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Kennel license. The fee for a kennel license granted by the Police
Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 137A shall be $15 if four dogs
or less are kept in the kennel; $30 if more than four but not more than ten
dogs are kept in the kennel; and $60 if more than ten dogs are kept in the
kennel; except that a kennel license shall be issued without charge to any
domestic charitable corporation incorporated exclusively for the purpose of
protecting animals from cruelty, neglect or abuse and for the relief of
suffering among animals. Dogs under the age of three months shall not be
counted in determining the fee for a kennel license.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (B)   Kennel transfer license. The fee for the issuance under Chapter 140,
Section 137A of a new license in the case of the removal of a kennel to Boston
shall be $3.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; CBC 1985 18-1.11)
18-1.12   “L” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Labor, claim for. See “Works or Railroads and Railways”.
   (B)   Licensed establishment, inspection of. The fee of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for annually inspecting a licensed establishment under
Section 110 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 110, shall be,
in the case of restaurants, lecture halls, recreation centers, terminals and
similar uses, $75; provided that, in cases in which the licensed establishment
accommodates 400 persons or less, the fee shall be $37.50; and provided further
that, in cases in which more than 5,000 persons are accommodated, there shall
be an additional fee of $15 for each 1,000 persons (or fraction thereof)
accommodated over the first 5,000 persons. The fee to be charged by said
Commissioner for annually inspecting nightclubs and similar uses (as defined in
Section 202 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 202) shall be $1
per guest at maximum accommodation capacity. The fee to be charged by said
Commissioner for Assembly Theaters (as defined in Section 110 of the
commonwealth’s Building Code) shall be $0.50 per guest at maximum accommodation
capacity. The fee to be charged by the said Commissioner for annually
inspecting church assembly halls used for low-density recreation and similar
uses and for annually inspecting the assembly halls of schools with ten or more
students shall be $37.50. The fee of said Commissioner for annual inspection of
stadiums, bleachers and the like, (as defined in Section 303 of the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 303) shall be $37.50 for seating
accommodations for up to 5,000 persons, plus $7.50 for the accommodation of
each additional 1,000 persons or fraction thereof. The fee of said Commissioner
for the annual inspection of jails, prisons, hospitals, sanitariums and
orphanages (as defined in Section 308 of the commonwealth’s Building Code,
being 780 CMR 308) shall be $100 for each structure containing up to 100 beds,
plus $2 for each additional ten beds or fraction thereof. The fee for the
annual inspection of hotels, motels, lodging houses, dormitories and the like
shall be $75 for up to ten units (as defined in Section 310 of the
commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 310), plus $10 per unit for each
unit in excess of ten units. The fee for any additional inspection required
prior to the issuance of a certificate shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 8)
   (C)   Licensing Board, filing fee for amendment, transfer or alterations.
The fee to be charged by the Licensing Board for the filing of an application
for transfer, changing management, classification or description of premises to
an existing license issued by the Licensing Board shall in the case where such
amendment, change or alteration involves expenditures by said Licensing Board
for public notices, and/or public hearings, and/or administrative cost, and/or
stenographic costs shall be $100; provided, however, that in the case of an
amendment, change or alteration to an existing license, which does not involve
said expenditures the fee shall be $30.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (D)   Liquefied petroleum gas equipment permit. The fee for a permit granted
by the head of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A to
install or connect liquefied petroleum gas equipment shall be $150 per
installation or connection.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 50; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 39; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 40)
   (E)   Loading zone designation. The fee for the annual designation of a
loading zone by the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking under Section 2A of
Chapter 263 of the Acts of 1929 shall, in Zone A be $20 for each foot of
curbing abutting on said zone and in Zone B be $10 for each foot of curbing
abutting on said zone; provided that where a loading zone is permitted for
valet parking the fee shall be $40 for each foot of curbing abutting on said
zone. The zones shall be defined by the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking and
set forth in the Traffic and Parking Regulations. The charge to be paid for the
erection by such Commissioner upon the request of the applicant for such
designation of a sign in connection with such designation shall be $150 which
shall include maintenance for five years.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 33; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 5; Ord. 1998 c. 6 § 2)
   (F)   Locations. See “Public Utility Locations”.
   (G)   Lodging house license. The fee for a lodging house license granted by
the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 23 shall be, in the case
of a lodging house certified by the Building Department as having an occupancy
of less than ten rooms to let or adapted for letting to lodgers, $75 and in the
case of a lodging house certified by the Building Department as having an
occupancy of ten or more, but less than 20 such rooms, $150; and in the case of
a lodging house certified by the Building Department as having an occupancy of
20 or more such rooms, but less than 30 such rooms, $225; and in the case of a
lodging house certified by the Building Department as having an occupancy of 30
or more, but less than 40 such rooms, $300; plus an additional fee of $4 for
the fortieth room and $4 for each additional room.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (H)   Lumber yard permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of the
Fire Department under Section 23.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to store
in excess of 100,000 board feet of lumber shall be $900 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 52; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 40;
Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 41)
   (I)   Lunch cart license. The fee for an annual license to maintain a
vehicle for the sale of food in a public way granted by the Commissioner of
Public Works and the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 49
shall be $240.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5; CBC 1985 18-1.12)
Editor’s note:
   The powers and duties of the Traffic and Parking Commission, the Traffic and
Parking Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking Department were assumed by the
Transportation Commission, the Transportation Commissioner and the
Transportation Department respectively under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608
of the Act of 1986.
18-1.13   “M” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 23)
   (B)   Manure, permit for removal of. The fee for an annual permit for the
removal of manure granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals pursuant to
Subsection 16-1.12 shall be $50.
   (C)   Marriage license. The fee of the City Registrar for entering notice of
intention of marriage and issuing certificate thereof shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 53; Ord. 1996 c. 5 § 2;
Ord. 2003 c. 11 § 1)
   (D)   Marriages. See “Births, Marriages and Deaths”.
   (E)   Marriages solemnized outside the commonwealth, recording of. The fee
of the City Registrar for receiving under M.G.L. Chapter 207, Section 36 a
Certificate of Declaration of Marriage solemnized outside the commonwealth
shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 14; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 9 § 7; Ord. 1996 c. 5 §
3; Ord. 2003 c. 10 § 1)
   (F)   Massage establishment license. The fee for an annual license to own
and/or operate a massage establishment granted by the Inspectional Services
Department under M.G.L., Chapter 140, Section 51 shall be $100.
(Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (G)   Massage license. The fee for an annual license to practice massage
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
51 shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (H)   Master box fee. The fee of the Commissioner of the Boston Fire
Department for accommodating a request for access to the Boston Fire
Department’s municipal fire alarm system shall be $750 annually.
(Ord. 2004 c. 3; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 42)
   (I)   Matches, permit to manufacture. The fee for permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 24.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to manufacture matches shall be $150 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 54; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 41; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 43)
   (J)   Matches, permit to store. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of
the Fire Department under Section 24.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to
store in excess of 864,000 matches shall be $60 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 55; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 42; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 44)
   (K)   Material, claims for. See “Railroads and Railways”.
   (L)   Meter removal and reinstallation. The fee for the removal and the
reinstallation of a parking meter by the Commissioner of Transportation shall
be $40 far each meter. For each meter removed, there shall be a per diem fee of
$25. This fee shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the
Street Occupancy Permit which specifies the estimated length of time of the
project and shall be paid prior to the initiation of the project. Adjustments
in the per diem fee shall be determined by the Commissioner of Transportation
upon the reinstallation of the meter. Requests for reimbursements must be filed
in writing with the Commissioner of Transportation within 30 days of the
reinstallation of the meter. The fee for the removal and reinstallation of a
parking meter pole shall be $100.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 56; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 10 § 1; Ord. 2010 c. 4)
   (M)   Milk license. The fee for a license granted by Board of Health and
Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 41 to deliver, exchange, expose for
sale or sell, or have in custody or possession with intent so to do, milk,
skimmed milk or cream, shall be $30 for each premises.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 9, c. 15; Ord. 1981, c. 34; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch.
7 § 14; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (N)   Milk pasteurization plant license. The fee for a license granted by
the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 48A for the
maintenance of an establishment for the pasteurization of milk shall be $750.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (O)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (P)   Mobile food server or prepared food vending vehicle, permit for. The
fee for a permit granted by the Board of Health under the State Sanitary Code
for the operation of a mobile food server or prepared food vending vehicle
shall be $100. This fee shall equally apply to the operation of prepared food
vending push carts, bicycles and stands. The provisions of this division (P)
shall not apply to vehicles licensed to vend within the market limits under
Subsection 16-2.1, nor to vehicles which deliver dairy and/or bakery products
to residences and retail stores.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 7; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 15)
   (Q)   Mortgages. See “Personal Property Mortgages, and the like”, also “Real
Estate Tax Payment Certificate”.
   (R)   Motel and the like, license for. The fee for a license granted by the
Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 32B for a
recreational camp, or an overnight camp or cabin, or a motel shall be, in the
case of an original license $200 plus the cost of publishing the notice of
hearing, and in the case of a renewal license, $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (S)   Motor carriers. See “Jitney License”.
   (T)   Moving pictures, permit for special exhibition of. The fee for a
permit granted by the Mayor under Section 1 of Chapter 280 of the Acts of 1913
for a special exhibition of moving pictures shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (U)   Municipal lien certificate. The fee for a certificate of liens as
provided in M.G.L. Chapter 60, Section 23B shall be as follows:
      (1)   For land of less than one acre upon which there is no permanent
structure, a fee of $25;
      (2)   For land upon which is situated no more than a single-family
residence and outbuildings, a fee of $25;
      (3)   For land upon which is situated no more than a two family residence
and outbuildings, a fee of $25;
      (4)   For land upon which is situated no more than a three family
residence and outbuildings, a fee of $25;
      (5)   For land upon which is situated a residence for four or more
families, a fee of $100;
      (6)   For land upon which is situated a commercial industrial or public
utility structure, a fee of $150; and
      (7)   For farms, forest land and all other real property, a fee of $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1978 c. 1; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 11 § 1)
   (V)   Musicians, band or group itinerant. The fee for an itinerant
musicians’ license granted by the Police Commissioner under Subsection 16-12.24
for a band or group of musicians shall be $5, except that in cases where such a
license is granted for a period longer than one month, the fee therefor shall
be $5 for each monthly period for which it is granted.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (W)   Musicians, individual itinerant. The fee for an annual itinerant
musician’s license granted an individual musician by the Police Commissioner
under Subsection 16-12.24 shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (X)   Musicians. See also “Sound Trucks”.
   (Y)   Multi-family residential inspection fees. The fee to be charged by the
Inspectional Services Department for inspections of multi-family residential
structures under 780 CMR Article 108.5.1 in the R-2 use group, shall be the fee
set forth in 780 CMR Table 108, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(CBC 1985 18-1.13; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 9)
18-1.14   “N” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Newsboys on common. The fee for an annual permit granted by the Mayor
under Subsection 16-19.2 to sell newspapers on the Common shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (B)   Nitrocellulose, permit for outdoor storage of. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
10A for the outdoor storage of nitrocellulose shall be $55 for each calendar
month in which such permit may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 57; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 43; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 45)
   (C)   Non-intoxicating beverages license. The fee for a license to sell non-
intoxicating beverages, whether by machine or over-the-counter or by vendor,
granted by the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 21B shall be
$60.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (D)   Non-resident of the commonwealth doing business in city, certificate
and statement of. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving and filing a
certificate and statement under M.G.L. Chapter 227, Section 5A shall be $35.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; CBC 1985 18-1.14; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
18-1.15   “O” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Offensive trade, assignment of location for. The fee for the
assignment by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Section 143 of a location for the exercise of a trade or employment referred to
in Section 143 shall be $250.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (B)   Offensive trade, permit to occupy or use building for. The fee for a
permit from the Mayor and Boston City Council under M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section
151 to occupy or use a building for carrying on the business of slaughtering
cattle, horses, mules, sheep or other animals, or for a melting or rendering
establishment, or for other noxious or offensive trade or occupation, or to
permit or allow such a trade or occupation to be carried on upon premises owned
or occupied by the permittee shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (C)   Off hours permit. The fee of the Commissioner of Inspectional Services
for receiving an application for a permit under Subsection 16-26.4 to
construct, reconstruct, alter, repair or demolish a building or structure
during non-regular hours shall be $100 per event. The applicant shall furnish
any information and documentation required by said Commissioner in conjunction
with said application.
(Ord. 2016 c. 8 § 5)
   (D)   Oil burner. See “Fuel Oil Burner”.
   (E)   Optometrist’s certificate. The fee of the City Clerk for recording
under M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 70 an optometrist’s certificate of
registration, or for issuing thereunder a certified copy of such a certificate,
or for receiving and filing thereunder such a certified copy shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 6)
   (F)   Osteopath’s certificate. The fee of the City Clerk for recording under
M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 8, by virtue of Section 10 of said Chapter, an
osteopath’s certificate of registration or, in a case where it is lost, the
certified statement provided for by said Section 8, shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 7)
   (G)   Oven, permit to operate industrial baking or drying. The fee for a
permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 26.02 of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to operate one or more industrial baking or drying
ovens shall be $200 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 58; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 24; Ord. 1997 c.
2 § 44; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 46)
   (H)   Oxygen and acetylene, permit for storage or use in conjunction. The
fee for an annual permit granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under
M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A for the storage or use of oxygen and acetylene
in conjunction shall be $15 for each 100 cubic feet or fraction thereof of
gases up to the first 1,000 cubic feet and $10 for each 100 cubic feet or
fraction thereof of gases in excess of the first 1,000 cubic feet.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; CBC 1985 18-1.16; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 45; Ord.
2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 47)
18-1.16   “P” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Parking space, inspection of. The fee to be charged by the Chief of
the Fire Department for annually inspecting pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 148,
Section 56 any open-air parking space licensed under division (B) below, or to
be so licensed, and for issuing a report or certificate of such inspection,
shall be $130.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 46; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 48)
   (B)   Parking space license. The fee for a license granted by the
Commissioner of Transportation under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 56 to engage
in the business of conducting or maintaining an open-air parking space in the
city shall be $5 per space per month for all such open-air parking spaces,
regardless of capacity, within the area bounded by and including Boston Harbor,
the Charles River, the Boston University Bridge, the Brookline town line,
Huntington Avenue, Ruggles Street, the M.B.T.A. Southwest Corridor,
Massachusetts Avenue, Albany Street, the Broadway Bridge, Broadway, C Street,
Summer Street and the Viaduct extended to Boston Harbor. The fee for such a
license shall be $2.50 per space per month for all such open-air parking spaces
outside the above described area with capacities for greater than 49 vehicles.
The fee for such a license shall be $2 per space per month for all such open-
air parking spaces outside the above described area with capacities for 49 or
fewer vehicles.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 33; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 59; Ord. 1988 c. 8 § 1;
Ord. 2008 c. 5)
   (C)   Park land demonstration. The fee for a permit granted by the
Commissioner of Parks and Recreation to demonstrate shall be as set forth in
Subsection 16-19.3.
(Ord. 1983 c. 26 § 2)
   (D)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for awnings, canopies or marquees.
The fee for an annual permit for the permanent projection over a parkway, other
way under the control of the parks and recreation commission, or public way, of
one or more awnings, canopies or marquees shall be, in the case of those
without a sign, a primary fee of $100 per residential or business establishment
and an additional fee of $8 for each 100 square feet, or part thereof, of way
covered thereby, such calculation being made cumulatively; and in the case of
those with a sign or signs, a primary fee of $140 per residential or business
establishment and an additional fee of $8 for each 100 square feet, or part
thereof, of way covered thereby, such calculation being made cumulatively and,
a further additional fee of $4 for each 10 square feet, or part thereof, of the
face area of the sign or signs determined by aggregating the face area of each
sign computed (without regard to its shape) by multiplying its maximum height
by its maximum width within the limits of the way; provided, however, that the
primary fee for renewal of such permit for which the fee is paid on or before
the expiration date of said permit shall be, for those without a sign $80 per
residential or business establishment, and, in the case of those with a sign or
signs, $100 per residential or business establishment. The fee for an annual
permit for the projection over a parkway, other way under the control of Parks
and Recreation Commission or public way, of one or more retractable awnings
shall be a primary fee of $20 per residential or business establishment and an
additional fee of $8 for each 100 square feet, or part thereof, of way covered
thereby, such calculation being made cumulatively. The fee for the temporary
projection over a parkway, other way under the control of the Parks and
Recreation Commission or public way, of one or more signs, canopies or
marquees, shall be $48 per building or structure for each day for which such
permit is granted.
(New; Ord. 1982 c. 5; Ord. 1985, c. 4 § 71; Ord. 1986 c. 21 § 1)
   (E)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for awning work. The fee for a
permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a parkway, other way
under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets for
the purpose of placing, repairing or removing one or more awnings on a
specified building or structure shall be $6 for each monthly period for which
such permit is granted and the fee for an annual permit so granted to occupy
and obstruct portions of ways or streets for the purpose of placing, repairing
and removing awnings on buildings and structures shall be $600.
(New; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (F)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for building construction, repair,
demolition and the like. 
      (1)   The fee for a permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of
a parkway, other way under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission,
street or streets in connection with the erection, alteration, repair,
painting, cleaning, decorating, demolition or removal of a building or
structure shall be a primary fee of $50, and for each daily period in which
such permit may be exercised, an additional fee of: $0.10 per square foot for
the first 500 square feet of way or street to be occupied or obstructed at any
one time in such period, and $0.05 per square foot for any additional square
feet of way or street to be occupied or obstructed at any one time in such
period.
      (2)   Permits under this division (F) shall be granted for the period of
time such occupancy will necessarily continue, not exceeding one month.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5, c. 28; Ord. 2016 c. 21 § 1)
   (G)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for building moving. The fee for a
permit to move a building in a parkway, other way under the control of the
Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets the Parks and Recreation
Commission, street or streets shall be $300 for the first day and $150 for each
additional day on which it may be exercised.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (H)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for heating plant cleaning. The fee
for a permit to occupy or obstruct a portion of a parkway, other way under the
control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets for the
purpose of cleaning the heating plant or plants of a specified building or
structure shall be $10 and the fee for an annual permit so granted to occupy
and obstruct portions of parkways, other ways under the control of the Parks
and Recreation Commission or streets for the purpose of cleaning heating plants
of buildings and structures shall be $600.
(New; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (I)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for moving truck. The fee for a
permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a parkway, under the
control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or streets or street under the
control of the Commissioner of Public Works, in connection with the movement of
items to or from a dwelling or commercial operation by a commercial moving
truck operator, a leased vehicle or a leased storage container, shall be $50
for up to two days for a vehicle and up to five days for a storage container.
This additional fee shall be the daily apportionment of the per square foot
amount charged per month in division (F) above.
(Ord. 2011 c. 4; Ord. 2016 c. 21 § 4)
   (J)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for delivery vehicle. The fee for a
permit reserving the right to exclusively occupy or obstruct a portion or
portions of a parkway under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission
or street or streets under the control of the Commissioner of Public Works for
the sole purpose of standing a vehicle at a curb in connection with the
delivery of goods to a residence or a business shall be $50 for up to four
hours for a vehicle, plus an additional fee per day per square foot of parkway
or street to be occupied or obstructed. This additional fee shall be the daily
apportionment of the per square foot amount charged per month in Subsection 1-
16.6.
(Ord. 2018 c. 8)
   (K)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for oversized vehicles and the
like. The fee for a permit to operate on a parkway, other way under the control
of the Parks and Recreation Commission or public way a motor vehicle or trailer
having an outside width of more than 96 inches, or an extreme overall length of
more than 33 feet, or a vehicle of a height in excess of 13 feet 6 inches shall
be $16 a day.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (L)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for overweight trailers. The fee
for a permit to operate or draw on a parkway, other way under the control of
the Parks and Recreation Commission or public way a trailer which with its load
weighs more than 5,000 pounds, other than a semitrailer, a heavy duty platform
trailer, a cable-reel trailer, a house trailer or a trailer which is an
apparatus or other object on wheels not used to transport other things for
delivery shall be $16 a day.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (M)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for overweight vehicles and the
like. The fee for a permit to operate or move on a parkway, other way under the
control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or public way a vehicle or
object weighing more than 14 tons or, in the case of a vehicle equipped with
pneumatic tires, more than 15 tons shall be $16 a day.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (N)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for public utility work. The fee
for a permit to occupy or obstruct portions of parkways, other ways under the
control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or streets for the purpose of
clearing manholes and placing and testing equipment shall be $20 for each
location for which such permit is granted.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5; Ord. 2016 c. 21 § 3)
   (O)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for raising or lowering goods. The
fee for a permit to occupy, obstruct or use a portion of a parkway, other way
under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or street for the
purpose of raising or lowering goods or merchandise into or from a specified
building or structure shall be $25.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (P)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for sign. The fees for an annual
permit for the placement on, or the projection over, a parkway, other way under
the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or public way of a sign,
advertising device, clock or other like structure shall be a primary fee of $50
and an additional fee of $2 for each 10 square feet of the total face area
thereof determined by aggregating the area of each face as computed without
regard to its shape by multiplying its maximum height by its maximum width
within the limits of a way; provided, however, that the primary fee for a
renewal permit for which the fee is paid on or before the expiration date of
the permit renewed shall be $20. The fees for an annual permit for the
placement on, or the projection over a parkway, other way under the control of
the Parks and Recreation Commission, or public way of a lamp, meathook or other
miscellaneous small structure bearing no advertising message shall be a primary
fee of $10 and an additional fee as determined by the Department empowered by
ordinance to collect the fee. There shall be no fee for a lamp, clock or other
device of street furniture, so-called, bearing no advertising and exempted from
the provisions hereof by the Art or Landmarks Commissions.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (Q)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for sign work. The fee for a permit
to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a parkway, other way under the
control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets for the
purpose of placing, painting, repairing or removing a sign on a specified
building or structure shall be $10 for each monthly period for which such
permit is granted; and the fee for an annual permit so granted to occupy and
obstruct portions of a parkway, other way under the control of the Parks and
Recreation Commission, street or streets, for the purposes of placing, painting
or repairing and removing signs on buildings and structures shall be $1,000.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (R)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for snow removal from building. The
fee for an annual permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a
parkway, other way under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission,
street or streets for the purpose of removing snow and ice from a specified
building or structure shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (S)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for storage and sale of
merchandise. The fee for a license to use specified parts of parkways, other
ways under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission or public streets
for the storage and sale of merchandise shall be such sum, not less than $50 or
more than $10,000 as the Commissioner empowered by ordinance shall determine
approximates the value of the privilege granted.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (T)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for window cleaning. The fee for an
annual permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a parkway, other
way under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets
for the purpose of cleaning one or more windows of a specified building or
structure shall be $10 and the fee for an annual permit so granted to occupy
and obstruct portions of parkways, other ways under the control of the Parks
and Recreation Commission or streets for the purpose of cleaning windows of
buildings and structures shall be $600.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (U)   Parkway or street occupancy permit for window glazing. The fee for a
permit to occupy or obstruct a portion or portions of a parkway, other way
under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, street or streets for
the purpose of glazing one or more window sashes of a specified building or
structure shall be $10 for each monthly period for which such permit is
granted; and the fee for an annual permit so granted to occupy and obstruct
portions of parkways, other ways under the control of the Parks and Recreation
Commission or streets for the purpose of glazing window sashes of buildings and
structures shall be $600.
(Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (V)   Pawnbroker’s license. The fee for a pawnbroker’s license granted by
the Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 70 shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 60)
   (W)   Peddlers. See “Hawkers and Peddlers”.
   (X)   Physician’s certificate. The fee of the City Clerk for recording under
M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 8 a physician’s certificate of registration, or, in
a case where it is lost, the certified statement provided for by said Section
8, shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 8)
   (Y)   Picnic grove license. The fee for a license to establish, let, keep
open, maintain a grove to be used for picnics and other lawful gatherings
granted by the Licensing Board under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 188 shall be
$200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (Z)   Plastics, permit to manufacture or handle. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 15.10 of the Boston
Fire Prevention Code to manufacture and/or handle plastics shall be $675
annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 61; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 47; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 49)
   (AA)   Playing fields. The fee to be charged by the Commissioner of Parks
and Recreation for the use of a lighted playing field shall be $25 per hour in
the case of residents of the city and in the case of users who are not
residents of the city, the fee for such use of a lighted playing field shall be
$50 per hour. Said fee shall not be charged to any organization who can
demonstrate to the Park Commissioner its affiliation with an organized youth
recreation group and/or an organized neighborhood youth group including, but
not limited to, the Little League, Babe Ruth League, Ted Williams League, City
of Boston Youth League, CYO and/or any neighborhood youth athletic team. All
proceeds from these fees shall be used exclusively for Parks and Recreation
purposes.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 5; Ord. 2010 c. 11; Ord. 2013 c. 6)
   (BB)   Pledge of personal property. See “Personal Property in Pledge”.
   (CC)   Plumbing installation, alteration or repair permit. The fee of the
Commissioner of Inspectional Services for receiving an application for a permit
under Section 105 of the commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR 105, to
install, alter or repair plumbing in any construction or existing structure
shall be a primary fee of $20 plus a fee of $5 for each fixture to be
installed, altered or substantially repaired.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 16; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (DD)   Podiatrist’s certificate. The fee of the City Clerk for recording
under M.G.L. Chapter 112, Section 21 the name and address of a registered
podiatrist and the date and number of his or her certificate shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 9)
   (EE)   Pool room license. The fees for a license to keep a billiard, pool or
sippio table for hire, gain or reward granted by the Licensing Board under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 177 shall be a primary fee of $30 and an additional
fee of $20 for each table.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 35)
   (FF)   Poultry, permit to keep. The fee for an annual permit to keep poultry
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under Subsection 16-1.8 shall be a
primary fee of $20 and an additional fee of $10 for each 50 kept.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (GG)   Poultry slaughterhouse license. The fee for a license granted by the
Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section 139A for the
maintenance of an establishment for the slaughtering of poultry shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (HH)   Power of attorney. The fee of the City Clerk for recording under
M.G.L. Chapter 255, Section 3 a power of attorney shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c.11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (II)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 1987 c. 9)
   (JJ)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (KK)   Public grounds; permits for use for commercial purposes or when
admission is to be had for consideration paid and other uses. The fee for a
permit for use of public grounds for the purpose of conducting an event, show,
exhibition, amusement or the like, upon any public grounds owned or controlled
by, or in the care of, the city or any Department or Division thereof,
including the Common, shall be $100 and in addition, such amount as the Board
or Officer exercising care or control with respect thereto shall determine
approximates the cost to the city of Police and fire protection, control of
traffic, cleaning, repairs and restoration of the grounds and such other costs
to the city as such will cause, on or about the premises in those cases where
such use is for commercial purposes; where admission is restricted to those
making a payment of money or a thing of value; and, $100 otherwise; provided
that nothing herein shall require the issuance of such a permit.
(Ord. 1982 c. 40 § 1)
   (LL)   Public records; furnishing copy of. Except as otherwise expressly
provided by this Section, the fee for the furnishing under M.G.L. Chapter 66,
Section 10 by any Board or Officer of the city a copy of a public record in
his, her, or its custody shall be $0.50 for each page or part thereof, not
exceeding 9 inches by 14 inches, except that the fee for furnishing copies of
plans and of records larger than 9 inches by 14 inches shall be $2 for each
sheet, page or part thereof.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 4) Superseded by 950 CMR 32.06
   (MM)   Public utility; condensed return. The fee of the City Clerk for
receiving and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 164, Section 84A or under M.G.L.
Chapter 166, Section 12A, a copy of a condensed return of business and
financial condition shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (NN)   Public utility locations granted by Building Commissioner. The fee of
the City Clerk for recording under M.G.L. Chapter 166, Section 22 an attested
copy of an order of the Building Commissioner granting under Chapter 268 of the
Special Acts of 1915 a location for underground wires, cables, conductors or
conduits shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 6; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (OO)   Public utility locations granted by D.P. U. The fee of the City Clerk
for recording under M.G.L. Chapter 164, Section 70A an attested copy of an
order of the State Department of Public Utilities granting a location for a
main for the transmission of gas, or for recording under M.G.L. Chapter 166,
Section 28 an attested copy of an order of said Department granting a location
for a line for the transmission of electricity, including in either case,
certificate by Clerk of said Department as to notice and hearing, shall be
$100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 7; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (PP)   Public utility locations granted by M.D.C. The fee of the City Clerk
for recording under M.G.L. Chapter 92, Section 46 an attested copy of an order
of the Metropolitan District Commission granting under Section 43 and 44 of
said Chapter, or altering, extending or revoking under Section 45 of said
Chapter, a location, shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 8; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (QQ)   Public utility locations granted by Public Improvement Commission.
The fee of the City Clerk for recording under M.G.L. Chapter 166, Section 22 an
attested copy of an order of the Public Improvement Commission granting a
location, or an alteration of transfer thereof, or authorizing an increase in
the number of wires or cables or attachments shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 2 § 9; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (RR)   Public way, certificate of existence of. The fee of the City Clerk
for furnishing under M.G.L. Chapter 233, Section 79F a certificate that a
particular way is a public way as a matter of record shall be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (SS)   Public works. See “Public Buildings and Works”.
   (TT)   Pulverizing plant permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief
of the Fire Department under Section 10.03 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code
to operate a pulverizing plant shall be $420 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 62; CBC 1985 18-1.16; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 48)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
18-1.17   “Q” Fees and Charges.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1985 18-1.17)
18-1.18   “R” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Radioactive material, permit to handle and store. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 20.03 of the Boston
Fire Prevention Code to handle and store more than 500 millicuries of
radioactive material shall be $725 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 63; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 §
25; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 49; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 50)
   (B)   Raffle or bazaar, permit for. The fee of the City Clerk receiving
under M.G.L. Chapter 271, Section 7A an application for a permit to conduct a
raffle or bazaar shall be $30.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13)
   (C)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (D)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (E)   Real estate tax payment certificate. The fee for a certificate of the
payment of a tax given by the Collector-Treasurer under M.G.L. Chapter 60,
Section 60 shall be $2.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 24)
   (F)   Refuse, reception of sanitary landfill. The charge to be paid to the
Public Works Department for receiving refuse for disposal at a sanitary
landfill other than from a contractor acting for said Department shall be $4
for each cubic yard.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (G)   Refuse; removal of. The charge to be paid the Public Works Department
for removing refuse which by Subsection 11-6.1, said Department is authorized
but not required to remove, shall be $0.80 a barrel.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (H)   Refuse; permit to transport. The fee for a permit to transport refuse
matter through the streets of the city granted by the Commissioner of Public
Works under Section 23-1 shall be $200 for each vehicle used in such
transportation; provided, however, that for a vehicle which is under contract
with the city for such use the fee shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
   (I)   Registered bonds; issuance of. The fee of the Collector-Treasurer for
issuing, pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 107, Section 4, a registered bond,
promissory note or certificate of indebtedness of the city in exchange for any
other bond, promissory note or certificate of indebtedness of the city shall be
$2.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 24)
   (J)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (K)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (L)   Registration of permission to use another’s name on milk bottles. The
fee of the Inspector of milk for registering under M.G.L. Chapter 94, Section
45 written permission to use the name of another on, or on cap, tag or label
attached to, milk vessels shall be $2.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (M)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (N)   Rent Equity Board. The annual charge established by the Board shall be
reflective of the costs incurred by the Board in providing services under
Section 10-2; provided, however, that in no event shall such annual charge be
less than $12 nor more than $36 per year per individual housing accommodation.
(Ord. 1991 c. 2 § 1)
   (O)   Resident listing; computer tape of. The charge to be paid for a
computer tape of the annual list of residents issued by the Election
Commissioners shall be $850 per copy and a charge of $300 to up-date said tape,
upon surrender of the tape originally supplied.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 27; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 4, § 2)
   (P)   Resident listing, printed labels of. The charge to be paid for a list
of residents printed in address label format, issued by the Board of Election
Commissioners, shall be $0.02 per name; provided that the total charge for each
request therefor shall not be less than $50.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 4 § 3)
   (Q)   Resident listing; printed list of. The charge to be paid for the
annual list of residents, issued by the Listing Board, printed in book form,
shall be $400 or $2 per precinct; provided, however, that there shall be issued
to each certified candidate for public Office a set of the current annual list
of residents for the complete district in which said candidate is seeking
Office.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 27; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 4 § 4)
   (R)   Retail food establishment; permit for. The fee for a permit granted by
the Board of Health and Hospitals under Subsection 16-1.6A for the operation of
a retail food establishment shall be $100 plus $50 for each 1,000 square feet,
or portion thereof, in excess of 2,500 square feet of floor area used for the
storage, preparation or merchandising of foodstuffs, excluding therefrom such
area as is devoted to the manufacture of baked goods and/or to food service,
for which a fee is paid under these ordinances.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1977 c. 9; Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 77; Ord.
1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 17; Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 4; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (S)   Rock concert license. The fee for a license granted by the Mayor under
M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 181 for the presentation of a rock concert, so-
called, shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (T)   Roller coaster license. The fee for a license granted by the Mayor
under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 186 to establish, keep open and maintain an
inclined railway at a carnival, $15 for each day on which such license may be
exercised; and in the case of such an inclined railway other than at a
carnival, $50 for each monthly period in which such license may be exercised;
except that in the case of a roller coaster exclusively for children under 13,
such fee shall be $25 for each monthly period.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (U)   Roller skating rink license. The fee for an annual license granted by
the Mayor under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 186 to establish, keep open and
maintain a skating rink to be used for roller skating shall be $50.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (V)   Rubbish containers, fee for permit for approved containers, movable
only with mechanical assistance. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of
the Fire Department under Section 29.02(b) or 29.02(c) of the Boston Fire
Prevention Code for the placement of approved metal rubbish containers movable
only with mechanical assistance shall be $25 for each container annually.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 64; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 50; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 51)
   (W)   Rubbish containers, fee for permit to maintain. The fee for a permit
granted by the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 29.02(a) of the
Boston Fire Prevention Code to store or handle for a period in excess of 24
hours, combustible rubbish on a premises in an amount in excess of three cubic
yards shall be $60 per month for the first three months or $675 per year.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 64; CBC 1985 18-1.18; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 51; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 52)
18-1.19   “S” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Sailboat; rental of. The fee to be charged by the Parks and Recreation
Commission for the rental of a sailboat shall be, in the case of a person not
resident in the city, $4 for each hour of use or fraction thereof, and, in the
case of a resident in the city, $2 for each hour of use or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (B)   Sale of article. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Section, the charge to be paid a Board or Officer for furnishing an article in
the exercise of the powers, or the performance of the duties, of such Board or
Officer shall be such sum as such Board or Officer shall determine approximates
the cost of furnishing such article.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (C)   Sandblasting permit. The fee for an application to the Environment
Department of the city pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 31C, for a
permit to sandblast within the jurisdiction of the city shall be $25. Said
Department shall have sole discretion to determine whether the work is in
accordance with regulations for the control of atmospheric pollution and to
approve or to deny said application.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 5 § 2)
   (D)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 18; repealed by 2016 c. 8 § 5)
   (E)   Sausages and chopped meat; license to manufacture. The fee for an
annual license granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 94, Section 144 to carry on an establishment for the manufacture of
sausages and chopped meat, or either, shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (F)   Secondhand dealer’s license. The fee for an annual license to be a
dealer in, or keeper of a shop for the purchase, sale or barter of secondhand
articles granted by the Police Commissioner under Subsection 17-4.1 shall be
$150.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 65)
   (G)   Secondhand motor vehicles. The fee for used car dealer’s licenses,
agent’s or seller’s licenses and motor vehicle junk licenses granted by the
Police Commissioner under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 59 shall be respectively
fixed by the Police Commissioner under said Section 59.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (H)   Sewer entrance permit. The fee for a permit granted by the
Commissioner of Public Works under Subsection 11-6.10 to enter a particular
drain into a public sewer shall be, in the case of said drain being connected
from a residential premises of six or less units, $50; in the case of said
drain being connected from commercial or industrial premises or residential
premises of seven or more units, $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (I)   Sheet metal work permit. The fee of the Commissioner of Inspectional
Services for a permit under 271 CMR 9.01(2) to install, alter or repair sheet
metal work in any construction, or as defined in 271 CMR 2 which includes PVC
or CPVC, shall be a primary fee of $20, plus a fee of $25 for up to the first
200 linear or square feet of sheet metal work and $25 for each additional 200
linear or square feet of sheet metal work.
(Ord. 2011 c. 1)
   (J)   Shellfish permits. The fee for an annual family-use shellfish permit
shall be $15 and the fee for a commercial use shellfish permit shall be $60.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 16)
   (K)   Sidewalk crossing permit. The fee for an annual permit to drive a
motor vehicle upon or across a sidewalk at a specified location granted by the
Commissioner of Public Works, or in the case of sidewalks under control of the
Parks and Recreation Commission, shall be $100; provided that there shall be no
permit required for the crossing of a sidewalk for a nonbusiness purpose, or
for the delivery of fuel or removal of refuse, when such is done agreeably to
regulations of the Commissioner, or the Commission, and such crossing shall
constitute the assumption of all risks connected therewith and an agreement to
hold, defend, save harmless and indemnify the city from any claim of any person
whatsoever arising out of such crossing.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (L)   Sight-seeing automobiles. The fee for a license granted by the Police
Commissioner under Section 3 of Chapter 399 of the Acts of 1931 for a sight-
seeing automobile shall be $10 for each commercial seating accommodation.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 66)
   (M)   Sight-seeing automobile drivers. The fee for a sight-seeing automobile
driver’s license granted by the Police Commissioner under Section 3 of Chapter
399 of the Acts of 1931 shall be $30.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 67)
   (N)   Smoke detection devices; inspection of. The fee of the Commissioner of
Inspectional Services for the inspection of electrical smoke detection devices
shall be a primary fee of $20 and an additional fee of $1 for each detection
device inspected; provided, however, that in cases in which the inspection of
electrical wiring and fixtures is conducted under Subsection 18-1.5, 2, at the
same time electrical smoke detection devices are inspected, only the primary
fee of $20 shall be assessed.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 28; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (O)   Smoke and carbon monoxide detection systems, inspections of. The fee
for an inspection performed at the direction of the Chief of the Fire
Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 26F and Section 26F½ et seq.,
shall be $50 for a single-family dwelling or a single dwelling unit, $100 for a
two-family dwelling, $150 for any building or structure with six or fewer
residential units and $500 for any building or structure with more than six
residential units. If a reinspection is necessary, the fee shall be $50 for a
single-family dwelling or a single dwelling unit, $100 for a two-family
dwelling, $150 for any building or structure with six or fewer residential
units, and $500 for any building or structure with more than six residential
units.
(Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 68; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 26; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 52; Ord.
2006 c. 2 § 1)
   (P)   Sound trucks. The fee for an itinerant musician’s license granted by
the Police Commissioner under Subsection 16-12.24 for a sound truck engaged in
advertising goods, wares or merchandise for sale shall be $5 for each day for
which such license is granted.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (Q)   Special Police Officers. The fee of the Police Commissioner for
appointing a person a special Police Officer under Chapter 282 of the Acts of
1898 shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 69)
   (R)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (S)   Sprinkler system; inspection of. See “Fire Suppression System, Testing
and Inspection of”.
   (T)   Sprinkler system, permit for disconnection of. The fee for a permit
granted by the Head of the Fire Department under M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section
27A shall be $120.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 53; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord.
2016 c. 9 § 53)
   (U)   Sprinkler system; permit for installation, alteration or repair of.
See “Fire Suppression System, Permit for Installation, Alteration or Repair
Of”, Subsection 18-1.6.
   (V)   Stables. The fee for a license to occupy or use a building for a
stable granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under Chapter 89 of the
Acts of 1889 shall be $125.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (W)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (X)   Standpipe disconnection. See “Sprinkler System Disconnection”.
   (Y)   Starch mill; permit to operate. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 10.03 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to operate a starch mill shall be $675 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 70; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 54; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 54)
   (Z)   Street occupancy permit for advertising vehicle. The fee for a permit
granted by the Commissioner of Public Works for a person to operate in the
streets north and east of Massachusetts Avenue, or any of them, a vehicle used
principally for advertising shall be $100 for each day for which such permit is
granted.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (AA)   Street or parkway occupancy permit for advertising by placard. The
fee for a permit for a person, while on foot in a street, parkway or other way
under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission, to carry and display
one or more show cards, placards or signs for the purpose of advertising goods,
wares or merchandise for sale shall be $10 except that in cases where such a
permit is granted for a period longer than one month, the fee therefor shall be
$10 for each monthly period for which it is granted.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5)
   (BB)   Street or parkway opening permit. The fee for a permit granted by the
Commissioner of Public Works under Subsections 11-6.9 and 11-6.10, to open a
street, parkway or other way including emergency street opening permits, under
the control of said Commissioner or of the Parks and Recreation Commission, or
any portion thereof, shall be $110 or $0.25 per square foot, whichever is
greater. The fee for an extension of an existing permit granted at the
discretion of and for a length of time determined by the Commissioner shall be
$80.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1982 c. 5; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 8 § 1; Ord. 2011 c. 3)
   (CC)   Subdivision permit. The fee of the Commissioner of Inspectional
Services for a permit to subdivide a parcel of property into two or more
parcels shall be $100 for each parcel thus created. If two or more parcels are
consolidated into one parcel, the fee shall be $100 for each parcel thus
created.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 19)
   (DD)   Sunday Entertainment License.
      (1)   The fee for a license granted by the Mayor under M.G.L. Chapter
136, Section 4 for dancing on a Sunday or for a game, sport, fair, exposition,
play, entertainment or public diversion on a Sunday shall be a primary fee of
$25; and if a payment or collection of money or other valuable consideration is
made for the privilege of being present thereat or engaging therein and the
licensee or a predecessor of the licensee has previously in this city on a
Sunday offered to view, set up, establish or maintain similar dancing or a
similar game, sport, fair, exposition, play, entertainment or public diversion,
an additional fee of $15 for each 1,000 of the average Sunday paid attendance
during the last such dance, game, sport, fair, exposition, play, entertainment
or public diversion so offered to view, set up, established or maintained;
provided, however, that:
         (a)   In cases where the license is for a bowling alley or for
billiard, pool or sippio tables, the fee shall be $5;
         (b)   In cases where the license is solely for entertainment provided
by not exceeding four instrumentalists on premises where there is no admission
or cover charge, the fee shall be $5;
         (c)   In cases where the license is solely for entertainment through
the use of television, radio and music provided by mechanical or electrical
means, or any of them, on premises where there is no admission or cover charge,
the fee shall be $2;
         (d)   In cases where the license is for dancing at a wedding or
celebration of a religious custom or ritual, there shall be no charge; and
         (e)   In cases where the license is for a game, sport, fair,
exposition, play, entertainment or public diversion conducted under the
auspices of a religious society for a religious or charitable purpose in a
place of worship or a hall used in connection therewith, there shall be no fee.
      (2)   The fee for an annual license granted by the Mayor under said
Section 4 shall be:
         (a)   In the case of a license for dancing, $200;
         (b)   In the case of a license to offer to view motion pictures, $200;
providing, however, in the case where there is no fee or cover charge to view
motion pictures there shall be no fee;
         (c)   In the case of a license for entertainment solely through the
use of television, radio and music provided by mechanical or electrical means,
or any of them, $60; and
         (d)   In the case of a license for a bowling alley or billiard, pool,
or sippio tables, a primary fee of $10 and an additional fee of $5 for each
alley, bed or table.
      (3)   The fees fixed by this division (DD) shall be in addition to any
sum payable to the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11, c 18; Ord. 1977 c. 2)
   (EE)   Sunday work permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Police
Commissioner, or his or her designee, under M.G.L. Chapter 136, Section 7 for
the performance on a Sunday, or a legal holiday to which Sections 5 to 11,
inclusive, of said Chapter 136 apply, of necessary work or labor which could
not be performed on any other day without serious suffering, loss, damage,
public inconvenience or delay to military defense work shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (FF)   Swimming or wading pool, public or semi-public.
      (1)   The fee for a permit granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals
under the State Sanitary Code for the operation of a public or semi-public
swimming or wading pool shall be, in the case of a permanent year-round
operation, $200; and in the case of a permit for summer seasonal operation,
$100.
      (2)   The fee for a permit under Subsection 9-9.10 shall be $100, except,
when in the Commissioner’s opinion, a Departmental inspection is required, the
fee shall be $200.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 34; CBC 1985 18-1.19; Ord. 1989 c. 11 § 2; Ord.
1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 20; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 10)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
18-1.20   “T” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Tank vehicle; inspection of. The fee to be charged by the Chief of the
Fire Department for inspecting any tank vehicle used for the transportation of
Class A or Class B flammable liquids shall be $215 for each biennial
inspection; provided, however, should additional inspection be required the fee
for each additional inspection shall be $120.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 72; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 55; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 55)
   (B)   Tank, underground, inspection of. The charge to be paid for each
inspection by the Boston Fire Department of the installation of a new or
replacement underground tank pursuant to 527 CMR 9.10 shall be $90 for each
tank up to a maximum of $315 per location.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 27; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 56; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c.
9 § 56)
   (C)   Tank, underground, inspection of piping. The charge to be paid for
each inspection by the Boston Fire Department of the installation of new or
replacement piping pursuant to 527 CMR 9.10 shall be $50 for each tank up to a
maximum of $200 per location.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 27; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 57; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c.
9 § 57)
   (D)   Target practice range license. The fee for a target practice range
license granted by the Boston City Council under Subsection 16-5.1 shall be
$100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 26)
   (E)   Taxes. See “Assessor’s Certificate”, also “Municipal Lien
Certificate”, also “Real Estate Tax Payment Certificate”.
   (F)   Taxicab licenses. See “Hackney Carriage Licenses”.
   (G)   Temporary food service establishment; permit for. The fee for a permit
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under the State Sanitary Code for
the operation of a temporary food service establishment shall be: $30 for the
first day or portion thereof in any one period consisting of consecutive days,
and $5 for every additional day within the same time period.
(Ord. 1981 c. 34; Ord. 2007 c. 9)
   (H)   Tire recapping plant permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief
of the Fire Department under Section 2.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to
conduct and maintain a tire recapping or rebuilding plant shall be $750
annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 73; Ord. 1990 c. 5 Ch. 6 §
28; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 58; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 58)
   (I)   Tire salvage or shredding yard. The fee for a permit granted by the
Chief of the Fire Department under Section 3.02 of the Boston Fire Prevention
Code to conduct or maintain a tire salvage or shredding yard shall be $750
annually.
(Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6, § 29; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 59; Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c.
9 § 59)
   (J)   Torch in open air. See “Fire (Small or Torch) in Open Air”.
   (K)   Trailer coach park license. The fee for a trailer coach park license
granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section
32B shall be, in the case of an original license, $250, plus the cost of the
notice of hearing, and, in the case of a renewal license, $100. The fee
provided in the preceding sentence shall be in addition to the additional
license fee, granted by the Board of Health and Hospitals under M.G.L. Chapter
140, Section 32G, which shall be $12 per trailer. The City Clerk shall receive
no fee for receiving and filing any copy of a trailer coach park license sent
him or her by the Board of Health and Hospitals pursuant to Section 32F of said
Chapter 140.
(Ord. 1981 c. 34)
   (L)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (M)   Reserved.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; repealed by Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (N)   Trenches, permit to excavate. The fee for a permit to excavate a
trench as required under M.G.L. Chapter 82A by the Public Improvement
Commission and paid to either the Commissioner of Inspectional Services or the
Commissioner of Public Works shall be $60 per application for such permit.
(Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (O)   Trust instruments and amendments. The fee of the City Clerk for
receiving and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 182, Section 2 a copy of a written
instrument or declaration of trust, or a copy of an amendment thereof, shall be
$100.
(Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 2)
   (P)   Trust merged into corporation. The fee of the City Clerk for receiving
and filing under M.G.L. Chapter 156, Section 46A a copy, certified by the
Secretary of the commonwealth, of articles of amendment in connection with the
merger of a trust into a corporation or a certificate issued pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 156, Section 46F evidencing the filing of such articles with such
Secretary shall be $100.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 13; CBC 1985 18-1.20; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
18-1.21   “U” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Use and occupancy; certificate of. The fee for issuing a certificate
of use and occupancy pursuant to Section 111 of the commonwealth’s Building
Code, being 780 CMR 111, shall be, in the case of a single, two or three family
dwelling, $15, and in the case of all other residential use groups, a primary
fee of $65, plus an additional fee of $35 for each unit in excess of three
units; in the case of places of assembly, $65; and for all other use groups, a
primary fee of $65, plus an additional fee of $35 for 1,000 square feet of
gross area contained in the building or structure for which the certificate is
issued.
(New; Ord. 1981 c. 29; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 11; Ord. 2010 c. 5; Ord. 2016 c. 9 §
60)
   (B)   Use permit. The fee of the Building Commissioner for issuing a use
permit under Section 4-3 of the Boston Zoning Code shall be $50.
(Ord. 1981 c. 28)
   (C)   Used car dealer’s license. See “Second Hand Motor Vehicles”.
   (D)   Underground storage facility permit. The fee for a permit issued by
the Head of the Fire Department to maintain an underground storage facility for
purpose of storing flammable and combustible liquids shall be $225, ($75 per
year for a three-year period) payable at the time of issuance of the permit
which permit shall be in addition to any license or any other permit required
by M.G.L. Chapter 148 and regulations issued thereunder.
(CBC 1985 18-1.21; Ord. 1986 c. 14 § 1; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 60; Ord. 2011 c. 6;
Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 61)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
   18-1.22   “V” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Vessels, liens on. The fee of the City Clerk for recording a statement
filed under M.G.L. Chapter 255, Section 15 to enforce a lien on a vessel shall
be $25.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 2013 c. 7)
   (B)   Voter or resident certificate. The fee of the Board of Election
Commissioners for furnishing a certificate as to the appearance of a particular
name on an annual register of voters shall be $4 for each date specified. The
fee received by said Commissioners for furnishing, in the name of the Assessor,
a certificate as to the listing of a particular name on the annual listing of
residents under Chapter 29 of the Acts of 1917, as amended, shall be $4 for
each date specified. If the request seeks the Board’s minutes of the
naturalization of a particular person, the fee shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 27; CBC 1985 18-1.22; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 4 § 5)
18-1.23   “W” Fees and Charges.
   (A)   Wagon and handcart licenses. The fee for an annual license granted by
the Police Commissioner under rules made by him or her in the exercise of such
of the powers arising from M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 22 as are vested in him
or her by or under the City Charter shall be $5.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (B)   Waste material handling plant permit. The fee for a permit granted by
the Chief of the Fire Department under Section 3.02 of the Boston Fire
Prevention Code to conduct or maintain a waste material handling plant shall be
$650 annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 74; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 61;
Ord. 2011 c. 6; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 62)
   (C)   Water meter; examination and test of. The fee of the Commissioner of
Public Works for examining and testing a water meter under M.G.L. Chapter 165,
Section 10 shall be $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11)
   (D)   Weights and measures; adjustment of. The charge for the repair,
alteration or adjustment of any weight, scale, balance, measure or measuring
device shall be a minimum of $20 and $20 for each 15 minutes or fractions
thereafter.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 15; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 7 § 21; Ord. 2002 c. 3)
   (E)   Weights and measures; sealing of. The fee for the sealing of a weight
or measure under M.G.L. Chapter 98, Sections 41 to 53 inclusive, or any of them
shall be:
      (1)   In the case of a machine or other mechanical device used for
determining linear or area measurement, $15;
      (2)   In the case of liquid capacity measure (other than a vehicle tank)
with a measuring capacity of less than one gallon, $1; with a measuring
capacity of one gallon or greater but less than ten gallons, $20; and with a
measuring capacity of ten gallons or greater, $50;
      (3)   In the case of a liquid measuring meter (other than those further
specified) having an inlet pipe with a diameter of 1 inch or less, $20; and in
the case of such a meter having an inlet pipe with a diameter of more than 1
inch, but not more than 4 inches, $50; and in the case of such a meter having
an inlet pipe with a diameter of more than 4 inches, $100; and in the case of a
vehicle tank meter more than 1 inch but less than 4 inches, $50; and 4 inches
or greater $100; and in the case of gravity meters, $20; in the case of
gasoline meters for retail, $30; and in the case of oil and grease meters, $15;
      (4)   In the case of milk and cream bottles and jars, $25 per gross;
      (5)   In the case of a scale or a balance with a weighing capacity of 100
pounds or less, $30, in the case of a scale or balance with a weighing capacity
of greater than 100 pounds, but less than 5,000 pounds, $40; and in the case of
a scale or balance having a weighing capacity of 5,000 pounds, or greater but
less than 10,000 pounds, $75; and in the case of a scale or balance with a
weighing capacity of 10,000 pounds or greater, $150;
      (6)   In the case of a taximeter or measuring device upon a vehicle to
determine the cost of transportation, $40;
      (7)   In the case of vehicle tank used in the sale of a commodity by
liquid measure and having a single compartment, and in the case of each
compartment of a vehicle tank so used having two or more compartments, a
primary fee of $75, and an additional fee of $10 for each 100 gallons or
fraction thereof of capacity;
      (8)   In the case of weights up to and including ten pounds, $30 per set;
in the case of weights greater than ten pounds, up to and including 50 pounds,
$20 per weight; in the case of weights over 50 pounds, $30 per weight; and
      (9)   In the case of a machine or other mechanical device used for
counting, $15.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 15; Ord. 1982 c. 18, c. 22; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch.
7 § 22; Ord. 2002 c. 3; Ord. 2010 c. 5)
   (F)   Welder’s certificate of qualification. The charge of the Building
Commissioner for issuing a certificate of qualification as a welder shall be
$35. The applicant for such a certificate shall at his or her expense furnish a
suitable place for his or her examination, supply all structural steel bar
stock and welding wire required therein and provide for testing completed
specimens. A duplicate copy of a welder’s certificate of qualification shall be
issued at the request of a welder for a reproduction fee of $10.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 28)
   (G)   Woodworking plant permit. The fee for a permit granted by the Chief of
the Fire Department under Section 23.01 of the Boston Fire Prevention Code to
operate a woodworking plant, whether or not including the storage on the
premises thereof in excess of 100,000 board feet of lumber, shall be $600
annually.
(Ord. 1976 c. 11; Ord. 1981 c. 22; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 75; CBC 1985 18-1.23; Ord.
1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 30; Ord. 1997 c. 2 § 62; Ord. 2016 c. 9 § 63)
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977. The Building Department and
the Housing Inspection Department were abolished and all powers and duties
transferred to the Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances
of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
18-1.24   “X”, “Y”, “Z” Fees and Charges.
   [Reserved]
(CBC 1985 18-1.24)
18-2   FEES BASED ON GROSS SALES.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of fee for any license of permit under Section 18-
1 is computed on the basis of gross sales the person seeking such license or
fee shall submit to the permit or license granting Agency the following
information:
      (1)   A certified copy of state or federal tax return clearly showing
gross sales for the establishment or entity seeking the permit or license;
      (2)   A sworn statement of gross sales of the premises seeking the permit
or license made by a certified public accountant; or
      (3)   A sworn statement made by the owner or authorized representative of
the owner of the premises seeking the permit or license setting forth in detail
the gross sales for the previous year broken down by source of revenue. The
foregoing statement shall set forth in detail the documents and sources from
which statement was derived.
   (B)   Failure to provide the information set forth above or the furnishing
of inadequate or incorrect information shall result in the fee being computed
at the highest amount permissible under the applicable paragraph.
(Ord. 1977 c. 15; CBC 1985 18-2)
18-3   WHEN CHARGES ARE DUE AND PAYABLE.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by Section 18-1, the entire fee fixed
by said Section for a permit or license shall be payable at the time of the
issuance of such permit or license. The entire fee or charge fixed by Section
18-1 for furnishing an article or the use thereof or the use of a place, and
the entire fee or charge so fixed for furnishing a copy or certified copy of a
record or paper, and the entire fee or charge so fixed for furnishing service
or work shall be payable at the time of application therefor.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 451; CBC 1985 18-3)
18-4   RENEWAL FEES.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 18-1, the fee for the
renewal of a license or permit shall equal the fee which would be payable under
Section 18-1 for an original license of permit for the same purpose.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 452; CBC 1985 18-4)
18-5   EXEMPTIONS FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   No Board, Officer or employee of the City or of the County of Suffolk shall
be required to pay any fee for any license or permit required of it or him or
her personally in the performance of its or his or her official duties; and no
such Board, Officer or employee requiring in the performance of its or his or
her official duties any services or work by the city or any Department, Board
or Officer thereof shall be required to pay any charge for such services or
work
(Ord. 1957 c. 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 453; CBC 1985
18-5)
18-6   OTHER EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in Section 18-1 shall be construed to affect in any way the
exemption from a fee or charge for a permit or license provided by Section 6 of
Chapter 572 of the Acts of 1949 or by Section 6 of Chapter 669 of the Acts of
1953 or by any similar statute.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 454; CBC 1985 18-6)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1979 c. 572 § 6; St. 1953 c. 669 § 6
18-7   EXEMPTION FOR BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   Neither the Boston Housing Authority nor any person acting in its stead
shall be charged any fee for any license or permit for which the fee may be
fixed by ordinance under Chapter 222 of the Acts of 1949.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 455; CBC 1985 18-7)
Cross-reference:
   St. 1949 c. 222; § 10-1
18-8   CITY RECORD: ADVERTISING AND SUBSCRIPTION CHARGES.
   The charge to be paid by Boards and Officers for the publication of
advertisements in the City Record shall be $6 for each ½ inch or fraction
thereof. The City Record shall be sold on the following terms payable in
advance: annual subscription, $50; single copy, $2.
(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 30 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 456; Ord. 1982 c. 8; Ord. 1985
c. 4 § 78; CBC 1985 18-8; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 3 § 1)
18-9   ANNUAL SEWER USE CHARGES.
   (A)   Under authority of M.G.L. Chapter 83, Section 16 and every other
authority hereunto enabling, the annual charge for the use of the common sewers
of the city by every estate in the city having one or more particular sewers
discharging into such common sewers is hereby established as a primary charge
of $5, an additional charge of $1 for every 1,000 cubic feet, in excess of
5,000 cubic feet, of water supplied by the city to such estate and billed in
the calendar year in which the charge established by this Section is assessed,
and a further charge of $1 for every 1,000 cubic feet of water derived or
received by such estate from any other source during the period covered by such
billing; provided, however, that if water so supplied, derived or received is
used on the estate in such a manner as not to enter the common sewers of the
city, in determining the charge established by this Section the quantity of
water so used shall be deducted from the aggregate amount of water so supplied,
derived or received during such period; provided further that in no case shall
any charge be assessed under this Section in excess of a just and equitable
charge; and provided also that persons exempt from the payment of water rates
and charges, but only such persons, shall be exempt from the charge established
by this Section.
   (B)   The quantity of water supplied by the city through a water meter in
good working order shall be determined by the readings of such meter. The
quantity of all other water shall be estimated by the Commissioner of Public
Works by any reasonable and equitable method apt in the circumstances of the
particular case to determine the quantity of water discharged through the
particular sewer or sewers of the estate into the common sewers of the city;
provided, however, in the case of water not supplied by the city but derived or
received by an estate from another source, and also in the case of water used
on an estate in such a manner as not to enter the common sewers of the city,
that if such water is measured by one or more water meters in good working
order installed and maintained on the estate by the Commissioner of Public
Works at the request and expense of the owner or tenant of such estate, the
quantity of water so derived or received, or the quantity of water so used, or
both, as the case may be, shall be determined by the readings of such meter or
meters. Water supplied by the city or any other source exclusively for fire
pipe purposes shall not be included in determining the charge established by
this Section.
   (C)   During the last three months of every calendar year, the Commissioner
of Public Works shall assess upon every estate in the city having a particular
sewer discharging into the common sewers of the city the charge established by
this Section, and in January of the next following calendar year certify to the
Commissioner of Assessing a list of such charges. Said Commissioner shall in
his or her order of assessment designate as the owner of a parcel assessed the
person who was liable to assessment therefor on the preceding January 1 under
the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 59.
(Ord. 1961 c. 11; Ord. 1962 c. 13; Ord. 1962 c. 14; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971)
c. 30 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 457; CBC 1985 18-9)
Cross-reference:
   M.G.L. Chapter 59; M.G.L. Chapter 83, Section 16; Subsection 11-6.1
Editor’s note:
   The water works system and the sewer works system of the Department of
Public Works were abolished and the duties transferred to the Boston Water and
Sewer Commission by Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.
18-10   PUBLIC TELEPHONES.
   The Public Improvement Commission be and it hereby is authorized, from time
to time, to enter into agreements with the New England Telephone and Telegraph
Company providing for the installation of public telephone booths on various
public sidewalks in the city and providing further for the payment to the city
by the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company of commissions established
in accordance with the regulations and standard rates of commission, from to
time, adopted by the Company.
(Ord. 1964 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 30 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 458;
CBC 1985 18-10)
Cross-reference:
   Section 8-7
18-11   FEE FOR AUGMENTED FIRE SERVICE.
Editor’s note:
   This Section shall be read against Emerson College vs. City of Boston et al,
391 Mass. 415 which held the provisions of said Section invalid.
18-11.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUGMENTED FIRE SERVICES AVAILABILITY (“AFSA”). The capacity to deliver a
total fire flow in excess of 3,500 gallons per minute.
   LIFE RISK FACTOR (“LRF”). A factor, to be determined by the Fire
Commissioner, taking into account density of occupancy, hours of occupancy,
number of stories and the existence of smoke removal equipment.
   NEEDED FIRE FLOW (“NFF”). A factor, expressed in gallons per minute, to be
determined by the Fire Commissioner, taking into account a construction type
factor, an effective area factor, a use factor, an exposure factor and a
connecting passageways factor.
   SUPPRESSION CREDIT(S). A credit determined by the Fire Commissioner to be
used in determining total fireflow, taking into account the existence of fire
suppression and detection equipment in a structure.
   TOTAL FIRE FLOW (“TFF”). The total fire fighting capacity, expressed in
gallons per minute, necessary to extinguish a fully involved fire in any given
structure, taking into account fire suppression and detection equipment and
life risk as provided herein. TOTAL FIRE FLOW shall be determined by the Fire
Commissioner according to the following formula: TFF = (NFF) x (1-S) x (LRF).
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.1)
18-11.2   Charges Determined by Fire Commissioner.
   Prior to October 1 of each year, the Fire Commissioner shall determine which
structures in the City are being provided augmented fire services availability.
On or before October 1 of each year, the owners of all such structures being
provided augmented fire services availability shall be charged a fee by the
Fire Commissioner, to be determined by said Fire Commissioner as provided in
this Section, for the provision of augmented fire services availability. Said
fee shall be based on the cost of providing augmented fire services
availability and shall be due and payable in two equal installments; the first
installment due and payable no later than December 1 of the year in which the
charge is made, and the second installment due and payable no later than June 1
of the following year. The Fire Commissioner shall designate as the owner of
the parcel charged the person or entity who was liable to assessment therefor
on the preceding January 1 under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 59. In the
case of a condominium, as defined by M.G.L. Chapter 183A, Section 1, the Fire
Commissioner shall designate as the owner of the parcel charged the person,
corporation, trust association or other entity designated on the master deed or
any amendments thereto pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 183A, Section 8(i).
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.2)
18-11.3   Appeal of Charge.
   Upon payment of the first installment of the fee, the person or entity
paying such fee may appeal the correctness of such fee by filing a notice of
appeal with the Fire Commissioner on or before December 1. Upon receiving a
notice of appeal, the Fire Commissioner shall schedule a hearing and shall
notify the person or entity appealing of the date of the hearing. The person or
entity who filed the appeal shall be entitled to appear at the hearing and
present evidence challenging the correctness of the fee charged. The Fire
Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall preside at said hearing, shall
render a decision affirming the correctness of the charge or correcting said
charge and shall so notify the person or entity who filed the appeal.
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.3)
18-11.4   Sending of Revised Bill.
   (A)   Upon the determination of an appeal, the Fire Commissioner shall
inform the Collector-Treasurer of cases in which the corrected fee is greater
than or less than the original charge. The Collector-Treasurer shall issue a
revised bill or abatement notice, as appropriate, reflecting the corrected fee
and refunding the difference, if any, between the corrected fee and the amount
already paid, plus interest of 8% per annum from the date of payment.
   (B)   The filing of an appeal and the pendency of any proceedings pursuant
thereto shall not operate to stay the payment of any fee as otherwise provided
in this Section.
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.4)
18-11.5   Estimated Fee.
   (A)   The Fire Commissioner may estimate the fee to be paid for a particular
structure. In such cases, the estimated fee shall be charged to the owner of a
structure subject to such fee on or before October 1, and shall be due and
payable in two equal installments as hereinbefore provided. The Fire
Commissioner shall determine the final fee on or before February first of the
fiscal year in which the fee is charged. The Collector-Treasurer shall issue a
revised bill or abatement notice, as appropriate, reflecting the final fee,
and, if no appeal is pending, shall refund the difference, if any, between the
final fee and the amount already paid, plus interest of 8% per annum from the
date of payment. The person or entity paying such fee may appeal the
correctness of the final fee by filing a notice of appeal with the Fire
Commissioner on or before March first of the fiscal year in which the fee was
charged. Said appeal shall be decided as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section to the contrary, for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1982 and ending June 30, 1983, the fee
provided for in this Section shall be assessed as follows.
      (1)   On or before March 1, 1983, the Fire Commissioner shall determine
and assess said fee. The first installment of said fee shall be due and payable
no later than April 1, 1983. The second installment of said fee shall be due
and payable on June 30, 1983.
      (2)   The person or entity paying such fee may appeal the correctness of
the fee as hereinbefore provided on or before March 31, 1983. Appeals shall be
decided, and a revised bill or abatement reflecting the corrected fee, and
refunds, where appropriate, shall be issued as otherwise provided in this
Section.
      (3)   Fees that remain unpaid shall constitute accounts owed to the city
and shall be collected by the Collector-Treasurer in accordance with applicable
laws.
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.5)
18-11.6   Rules and Regulations.
   The Fire Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations for the
administration of this Section.
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.6)
18-11.7   Exceptions.
   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section to the contrary, the owner of
a structure being provided augmented fire services availability shall not be
required to pay that proportion of the fee charged for augmented fire services
availability attributable to portions of said structure owned by said owner and
rented as residential units to persons or families living independently of each
other, and in which kitchen facilities are provided in each individual unit, or
common areas of said structures, including parking, accessory to said
residential units only.
(Ord. c. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6; CBC 1985 18-11.7)
18-11.8   Administration of this Section.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the contrary, and pursuant
to M.G.L. Chapter 190, as amended, administration of the Augmented Fire
Services Availability program shall be uniformed Fire Department personnel
only, and funds shall be allocated for this purpose.
(Ord. 1983 c. 21; CBC 1985 18-11.8)
18-11.9   Severability.
   The provisions of this Section are severable and if any of its provisions
shall be held invalid in any circumstances, such invalidity shall not effect
any other provisions or circumstances.
(Ord. 1982 c. 7, c. 12; Ord. 1983 c. 6, c. 21; CBC 1985 18-11.9)
18-12   INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT PERMIT FEE REFUNDS.
   Any applicant seeking a refund for any permit fee, other than a building and
demolition permit fee, in cases both where the permit was denied by the
Inspectional Services Department or where the permit was issued in error by the
Inspectional Services Department, may receive reimbursement of the fee paid to
the extent approved by the Commissioner.
(CBC 1985 18-12 Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 12)
CHAPTER XIX: SCHOOLS
Section
19-1   SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
   
19-1.1   Possession, Detection, of Weapons in Schoolhouses
   
19-1.2   Monthly Report on Incidents
   
19-1.3   School Bus Safety
19-2   SALARY OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS
19-3   PUBLIC SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE ANNUAL AUDITING
   
19-3.1   Report by Boston Public School Department
   
19-3.2   Report by Healthy Schools Task Force
19-1   SCHOOL DEPARTMENT.
19-1.1   Possession, Detection, of Weapons in Schoolhouses.
   No person other than a sworn Officer of the commonwealth, a member of the
military service on active duty or a Constable, Officer or Official of the city
or county having a license to carry firearms shall in any schoolhouse have
possession of any dangerous weapon, which term shall include any firearm, and
any item described in M.G.L. Chapter 269, Section 10(b) or (c), unless
authorized by the Superintendent of Schools or the Superintendent’s designee.
If the Superintendent shall determine public safety requires, a system for
detection of weapons may be established in any schoolhouse and no person shall
be admitted to, or enter, a schoolhouse without submitting to such detection
system. Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be punished by a fine
of $200.
(CBC 1985 19-1.1; Ord. 1992 c. 3 § 1)
19-1.2   Monthly Report on Incidents.
   The School Committee shall prepare and furnish, each month to the Mayor and
Boston City Council, a report on the number of incidents reported in the
schools of the city by the Boston School Police during the previous month,
tabulated by school zone, and providing, in addition to the school zone, the
geographical area of the city comprising the school zone. The School Committee
shall, in preparing each report, also include the cumulative totals of the
incidents enumerated above, tabulated as aforesaid, for the year to date of
making the report.
(CBC 1985 19-1.2; Ord. 1994 c. 3)
19-1.3   School Bus Safety.
   (A)   Every school bus regularly employed in the transportation of children
to schools in the city shall be equipped with and use when accepting and
discharging passengers a crossing gate, so called, which shall extend out in
front of the school bus. This Section shall not apply to those vehicles owned
or leased by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority.
   (B)   This Section shall apply to all school buses purchased on or after
July 1, 1999.
(CBC 1985 19-1.3; Ord. 2000 c. 2)
19-2   SALARY OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
   Effective January 1, 1987, all members of the Boston School Committee be
paid an annual stipend of $7,500.
(CBC 1985 19-2; Ord. 1986, c. 23 § 4 [500])
19-3   PUBLIC SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE ANNUAL AUDITING.
19-3.1   Report by Boston Public School Department.
   (A)   The Boston Public School Department, or its successor, shall prepare a
report detailing the repairs, renovations and/or upgrades necessary to ensure,
protect and/or improve the condition of each and every school building.
   (B)   The report shall include the actual and/or estimated costs of each
repair, renovation and/or upgrade. The report shall also identify:
      (1)   The total amount allocated in the then-current year’s budget for
school repairs, renovations and/or upgrades;
      (2)   The total amount actually spent on school repairs, renovations and/
or upgrades for the then-current school year as of the date of the report; and
      (3)   The amount estimated to be spent on school repairs, renovations
and/or upgrades by the close of the then-current school year.
   (C)   On or before March 1 of each year, the Boston Public School Department
shall submit the report to the City Clerk who shall assign the document a
docket number for the next regular meeting of the Boston City Council. The
appropriate committee of the Boston City Council shall study the report and
shall convene a public hearing on the matter within four weeks.
(CBC 1985 19-3.1; Ord. 2006 c. 10 § 1)
19-3.2   Report by Healthy Schools Task Force.
   (A)   The Healthy Schools Task Force, or its successor, shall prepare a
report detailing the environment audit of each and every school building. The
report shall include whether repairs were indicated as necessary, whether such
repairs were completed, the actual cost of such repairs actually completed and
the estimated cost of repairs not actually completed.
   (B)   On or before March 1 of each year, the Healthy Schools Task Force
shall submit the report to the Clerk for the City of Boston who shall assign
the document a docket number for the next regular meeting of the Boston City
Council. The appropriate committee of the Boston City Council shall study the
report and shall convene a public hearing on the matter within four weeks.
(CBC 1985 19-3.2; Ord. 2006 c. 10 § 1)
CHAPTER XX: CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS
Section
20-1   GEORGE ROBERT WHITE FUND
20-2   FRANKLIN INSTITUTE OF BOSTON
20-3   OLD SOUTH ASSOCIATION
20-4   CHARITABLE DONATIONS FOR INHABITANTS OF BOSTON
20-5   EDWARD INGERSOLL BROWNE COMMISSION
   
20-5.1   Board; Appointment; Compensation
   
20-5.2   Powers and Duties of Commission
   
20-5.3   Investment Counsel
   
20-5.4   Meetings; Report
   
20-5.5   Expenditure of Funds
20-6   BOSTON GROUND WATER TRUST
   
20-6.1   Established
20-1   GEORGE ROBERT WHITE FUND.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T16 c. 1; CBC 1985 20-1)
20-2   FRANKLIN INSTITUTE OF BOSTON.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T16 c. 3; CBC 1985 20-2)
20-3   OLD SOUTH ASSOCIATION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T16 c. 5; CBC 1985 20-3)
20-4   CHARITABLE DONATIONS FOR INHABITANTS OF BOSTON.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T16 c. 7; CBC 1985 20-4)
20-5   EDWARD INGERSOLL BROWNE COMMISSION.
20-5.1   Board; Appointment; Compensation.
   In order to facilitate the achievement of the goals of Edward Ingersoll
Browne as recited in clause sixth of a certain will of the said Edward
Ingersoll Browne proved October 3, 1901, and to act as the sole and exclusive
Agent of the city in expending any monies available or made available under
that will, there shall be in the city a Board, to be known as the Edward
Ingersoll Browne Commission, consisting of the Mayor, that member of the Boston
City Council for the time being the senior member in time of service or, in the
event that two or more members have equal service, the senior of those in age
and the Collector-Treasurer. All Commissioners shall serve ex officio and
without additional compensation. The Mayor shall be Chair.
(Ord. 1975 c. 5 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T16 § 300; CBC 1985 20-5.1)
20-5.2   Powers and Duties of Commission.
   The provisions of Section 10 of Chapter 25 of the Revised Ordinances of 1961
(Ord. Subsection 6-3.11) to the contrary notwithstanding, the said Commission
shall prudently manage, invest and reinvest the funds bequeathed to the city
under said will, together with such other sums as the Mayor and Boston City
Council may make available to it, and shall expend the same in a manner
agreeable to the said will, or agreeable to the provisions of any order making
monies available to said Commission, but no such funds shall be expended except
upon appropriation lawfully made after consultation with a Committee consisting
of the following: one member appointed by the Mayor from two nominees of the
Boston Society of Landscape Architects, one member appointed by the Mayor from
two nominees of the Art Commission, the Park Commissioner and the Public Works
Commissioner, or their respective designees, all of whom shall serve without
further compensation, and those appointed by the Mayor shall serve at the
pleasure of their nominating body.
(Ord. 1975 c. 5 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T16 § 301; CBC 1985 20-5.2)
20-5.3   Investment Counsel.
   The said Commission shall annually elect a firm or individual having not
less than 20 years experience in the administration and investment of trust
funds to serve as investment counsel and fund manager for such compensation as
the Commission shall determine. The Commission may require said individual or
firm to give bond for faithful performance of his, her or its duties, and for
such other purposes as the Commission may require, in an amount agreeable to
the said Commission. Said firm or individual and those members of the said
Committee appointed by the Mayor shall be deemed to be special municipal
employees for the purposes of M.G.L. Chapter 268A, but this Subsection shall
not be deemed a waiver of the notice requirements of Section 8 of Chapter 486
of the Acts of 1909, as amended.
(Ord. 1975 c. 5 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T16 § 302; CBC 1985 20-5.3)
20-5.4   Meetings; Report.
   The said Commission shall meet at least quarterly on the first Wednesday or
Thursday of January, April, July and October, at which meeting the firm or
individual elected as investment counsel and fund manager shall furnish a
report in writing, setting forth the current condition of the fund and any
recommendations relative to the investment of the fund in the three months next
following, together with the reasons for such recommendation. The said
Commission shall, annually in January, submit to the Mayor and Boston City
Council a report of its doings in the then previous year, together with an
audited statement of the funds then in its control, and its estimate of the
amount of money that will be available for expenditure in the then current
year.
(Ord. 1975 c. 5 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T16 § 303; CBC 1985 20-5.4)
20-5.5   Expenditure of Funds.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law or ordinance to the contrary, and
notwithstanding the requirement of appropriation.
   (A)   This Section shall be published by the action of the Boston City
Council in passing the same.
   (B)   With the approval of the Mayor and Boston City Council the said
Commission may, for the purpose of matching federal, commonwealth or private
grants, grants-in-aid, gifts or bequests, obligate the expenditure of funds
under its control for purposes agreeable to the aforesaid Browne will and/or to
the terms of said grant, grant-in-aid, gift or bequest, whether or not the same
is to be spent within the then current municipal or fiscal year.
   (C)   The said Commission may hold, and continue to hold, any security
tendered to it if, in the opinion of the said Commission, such holding would be
of benefit to the fund.
(Ord. 1975 c. 5 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T16 § 304; CBC 1985 20-5.5)
20-6   BOSTON GROUND WATER TRUST.
20-6.1   Established.
   There shall be established in the city, by the Collector-Treasurer, the
“Boston Ground Water Trust”, which trust shall be established in the form, and
manner of the attached Declaration of Trust; and that, subject to the approval
of the Boston City Council and Mayor, the Boston Ground Water Trust be and
hereby is authorized to accept and expend any and all funds contributed to it
consistent with the purposes of the Declaration of Trust attached hereto and
filed herewith.
(CBC 1985 20-6.1; Ord. 1986 c. 11 § 1 [400])
Editor’s note:
   A copy of the “Declaration of Trust” shall be kept on file in the Office of
the Boston City Clerk, and shall be available for public inspection.
CHAPTER XXI: MISCELLANEOUS PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Section
21-1   BOSTON CITY HALL AND THE BOSTON GOVERNMENT CENTER COMMISSION
   
21-1.1   Possession, Detection of Weapons in City Hall
21-2   AUDITORIUM COMMISSION
   
21-2.1   Commissioners
   
21-2.2   Construction and Care of Municipal Auditorium
   
21-2.3   Management of the Boston Arena
21-3   BOSTON ARENA AUTHORITY
21-4   PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ACCESSIBILITY FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED
   
21-4.1   Definitions
   
21-4.2   Commission to Issue Advisory Opinion on Compliance with the ABB Rules
   
21-4.3   Filing of Request for Commission Advisory Opinion
   
21-4.4   Filing of Supplementary Information
   
21-4.5   Site for Filing Requests and Supplemental Information
   
21-4.6   Responsibilities of the Building Department
   
21-4.7   Issuance of Advisory Opinions
   
21-4.8   Annual Report
   
21-4.9   Penalty
   
21-4.10   Severability
21-5   RESTRICTING SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS
   
21-5.1   Purpose
   
21-5.2   Definitions
   
21-5.3   Prohibition
   
21-5.4   Designated Smoking Areas
   
21-5.5   Penalty for Violation
   
21-5.6   Educational Program
21-6   CONCERNING INSTALLATION OF FIRE AND SMOKE DETECTORS
21-1   BOSTON CITY HALL AND THE BOSTON GOVERNMENT CENTER COMMISSION.
21-1.1   Possession, Detection of Weapons in City Hall.
   No person other than a sworn Officer of the commonwealth, a member of the
military service on active duty or a Constable, Officer or Official of the city
or county having a license to carry firearms shall in any part of City Hall
have possession of any dangerous weapon, which term shall include any firearm,
and any item described in M.G.L. Chapter 269, Section 10(b) or (c), unless
authorized by the Commissioner of Real Property or that Commissioner’s
designee. If the Commissioner shall determine public safety requires, a system
for detection of weapons may be established in City Hall and no person shall be
admitted to, or enter, the building without submitting to such detection
system. Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be punished by a fine
of $200.
(CBC 1985 21-1.1; Ord. 1992 c. 3 § 2)
21-2   AUDITORIUM COMMISSION.
Editor’s note:
   Although this Section has never been formally repealed, the Auditorium was
conveyed to the Massachusetts Convention Center Authority under the provisions
of Ch. 190 of the Acts of 1980.
21-2.1   Commissioners.
   There shall be in the City a Board known as the Auditorium Commission,
consisting of five Officers known as Auditorium Commissioners, who shall be
residents of the City, appointed by the Mayor as follows: one from three
candidates nominated by the Boston Hotel Association, one from three candidates
nominated by the Greater Boston Real Estate Board, one from three candidates
nominated by the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce and two selected at large
by the Mayor. Commissioners shall serve five years. As the term of any
Commissioner expires, his or her successor shall be appointed in like manner as
such Commissioner for a term of five years. Vacancies in the Board shall be
filled in the same manner for the unexpired term. Auditorium Commissioners
shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for their traveling
and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 1957 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 7 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. 717 § 50; CBC 1985 21-
2.1)
21-2.2   Construction and Care of Municipal Auditorium.
   The Auditorium Commission shall construct, or cause to be constructed, the
municipal auditorium authorized by Chapter 164 of the Acts of 1954, with an
exhibition hall, assembly hall and accessory rooms suitable for exhibitions,
conventions and other shows and gatherings in the city; shall contract for the
care and management thereof after its completion; and for such purposes may,
subject to the approval of the Mayor, make such contracts and employ such
experts, assistants and employees as they may think necessary or expedient.
(St. 1954 c. 164; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 7 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. 717 § 51; CBC 1985 21-
2.2)
21-2.3   Management of the Boston Arena.
   The Auditorium Commission shall manage and care for the Boston Arena; and
for such purposes may, subject to the approval of the Mayor, make such
contracts and employ such experts, assistants and employees as they may think
necessary or expedient.
(Ord. 1975 c. 12; CBC 1975 Ord. 717 § 52; CBC 1985 21-2.3)
21-3   BOSTON ARENA AUTHORITY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T17 c. 5; CBC 1985 21-3)
21-4   PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ACCESSIBILITY FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED.
21-4.1   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABB. The Architectural Barriers Board of the commonwealth’s Department of
Public Safety.
   ABB RULES. The rules and regulations of the ABB, as may be amended from time
to time.
   ADVISORY OPINION. Written advisory opinion:
      (1)   Requested by an owner under Subsection 21-4.3;
      (2)   Issued by the Commission under Subsection 21-4.7; and
      (3)   Regarding compliance of a proposed significant change with the ABB
rules.
   AMENDMENTS. Amendments filed under Section 105 of the Basic Code, as may be
amended from time to time.
   APPLICATION. Application for a permit filed under Section 105 of the Basic
Code, as may be amended from time to time.
   BASIC CODE. The commonwealth’s Building Code, being 780 CMR, as may be
amended from time to time.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Boston Building Department.
   COMMISSION. The Boston Commission on the Physically Handicapped.
   COMPLAINT. Written complaint of noncompliance with the ABB rules:
      (1)   Transmitted to the ABB;
      (2)   In the form which the ABB may, from time to time, proscribe; and
      (3)   Which, pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 22, Section 13A, the ABB must:
         (a)   Investigate;
         (b)   Act upon as necessary; and
         (c)   Within 60 days of complaint receipt, give notice in writing to
the complaining party of its actions or proposed actions.
   OWNER. An owner as defined under Section 202 of the Basic Code, being 780
CMR, as may be amended from time to time, who in Boston:
      (1)   Owns a public building; or
      (2)   Proposes a significant change that will result in the creation of a
public building.
   PERMIT. As defined under Section 114 of the Basic Code, being 780 CMR, as
may be amended from time to time.
   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON. As defined under Section 4.10 of the ABB
rules, as may be amended from time to time.
   PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. Plans and specifications filed under Section 113
of the Basic Code, as may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. As defined under Section 4.11 of the ABB rules, as may be
amended from time to time.
   SIGNIFICANT CHANGE. An activity:
      (1)   Excluding demolition or removal;
      (2)   Costing over $1,000; and
      (3)   For which an owner must file a permit application under Section 113
of the Basic Code, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord 1979 c. 40 § 1; CBC 1985 21-4.1)
Editor’s note:
   The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department were abolished
and all powers and duties transferred to the Inspectional Services Department
by Ch. 19 of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this Code).
21-4.2   Commission to Issue Advisory Opinion on Compliance with the ABB Rules.
   (A)   Any owner who proposes to make a significant change shall, under
Subsection 21-4.3, request an advisory opinion from the Commission regarding
compliance of the proposed change with the ABB rules.
   (B)   The Commission shall issue an advisory opinion, under Subsection 21-
4.7, and shall transmit this opinion to the ABB, the owner and the Building
Department. If noncompliance is found, this opinion shall be in the form of a
complaint.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 2; CBC 1985 21-4.2)
21-4.3   Filing of Request for Commission Advisory Opinion.
   (A)   An owner who proposes to make a significant change shall file a
request for an advisory opinion from the Commission.
   (B)   The owner’s request shall include:
      (1)   At least one copy of the following items actually submitted, or to
be submitted, to the Building Department:
         (a)   Application;
         (b)   Plans and specifications; and
         (c)   Any other information that the Building Department requires
accompany an application for the proposed significant change.
      (2)   Any other information the owner deems pertinent.
   (C)   The owner shall file his or her request for an advisory opinion no
more than three workdays after filing an application for the significant change
with the Building Department. The owner may submit his or her request before
filing an application.
   (D)   Upon filing a request, the owner shall pay the Commission a processing
fee of $25.
   (E)   The Commission shall issue a receipt to the owner filing a request.
The owner shall submit this receipt to the Building Department.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 3; CBC 1985 21-4.3) Penalty, see Subsection 21-4.9
21-4.4   Filing of Supplementary Information.
   (A)   If, after filing a request for an advisory opinion, the owner files
with the Building Department:
      (1)   Amendments;
      (2)   Any other information, whether or not required by the Building
Department regarding the proposed significant change; or
      (3)   The owner shall, no more than three working days after filing this
information with the Building Department, file a copy of this supplemental
information with the Commission.
   (B)   After filing a request for an advisory opinion, the owner may also
submit to the Commission supplemental information not submitted to the Building
Department.
   (C)   The Commission may not charge a fee for processing supplemental
information received under this Subsection.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 4; CBC 1985 21-4.4) Penalty, see Subsection 21-4.9
21-4.5   Site for Filing Requests and Supplemental Information.
   The Commission shall establish a site for the filing of advisory opinion
requests and supplemental information under Subsections 21-4.3 and 21-4.4.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 5; CBC 1985 21-4.5)
21-4.6   Responsibilities of the Building Department.
   (A)   At all sites where the Building Department takes applications, the
Department shall post conspicuous notices informing owners of their
responsibilities under Subsections 21-4.3 and 21-4.4.
   (B)   The Building Department may not issue a permit to an owner until the
owner submits a receipt from the Commission as required under Subsection 21-4.3
(E).
   (C)   Neither failure of the Building Department to post notices as required
under division (A) above; nor issuance of permits by the Department in
violation of division (B) above will relieve owners of their responsibilities
under Subsections 21-4.3 and 21-4.4.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 6; CBC 1985 21-4.6)
21-4.7   Issuance of Advisory Opinions.
   (A)   Within 14 workdays of receipt of a request for an advisory opinion,
the Commission shall issue its advisory opinion. However, if prior to issuance
the Commission receives supplemental information under Subsection 21-4.4, the
Commission may delay issuance of this advisory opinion until 14 days after
receipt of this supplemental information.
   (B)   If, after issuance of this advisory opinion, the Commission receives
supplemental information under Subsection 21-4.4, the Commission may issue an
additional advisory opinion.
   (C)   The Commission’s advisory opinion, whether issued under divisions (A)
or (B) above shall contain its finding that the proposed significant change:
      (1)   Complies with ABB rules;
      (2)   Does not comply with ABB rules; or
      (3)   Does not comply with the ABB rules, but advises that the
significant change may qualify for a variance under Section 3 of the ABB rules
as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   If the Commission makes a finding under either division (C)(2) or (C)
(3) above, it shall:
      (1)   Include in its advisory opinion an explanation of the grounds for
this finding; and
      (2)   Conform its advisory opinion to the form of a complaint.
   (E)   In addition to the other requirements of this Subsection, the
Commission may include in its advisory opinion any other information or
comments which it deems pertinent.
   (F)   At the time of issuance, the Commission shall transmit a copy of its
advisory opinion to:
      (1)   The ABB;
      (2)   The owner requesting the opinion; and
      (3)   The Building Department.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 7; CBC 1985 21-4.7)
21-4.8   Annual Report.
   (A)   By November 1 of each year, for the fiscal year just concluded, the
Commission shall compile and submit to the Boston City Council a written report
describing the Commission’s activities under this Section.
   (B)   The Commission shall include in its report:
      (1)   A list of requests for advisory opinions received;
      (2)   A summary of the finding in the advisory opinions issued for each
request;
      (3)   A description of the inducted actions taken by the ABB if compiled;
and
      (4)   Other information which the Commission deems pertinent.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 8; CBC 1985 21-4.8)
21-4.9   Penalty.
   An owner who violates Subsections 21-4.3 or 21-4.4 shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40 § 9; CBC 1985 21-4.9)
21-4.10   Severability.
   If any provision or clause of this Section or application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this Section which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this of
this Section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 1979 c. 40, § 10; CBC 1985 21-4.10)
21-5   RESTRICTING SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
21-5.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to protect the public health, comfort and
environment by restricting smoking in public buildings and at public meetings
to designated smoking areas and to set an example for the children of the city
about the dangers of smoking.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 1; CBC 1985 21-5.1)
21-5.2   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building or enclosed indoor area owned or maintained by
the city which is used by the general public, including offices, educational
facilities and meeting rooms, but excluding private, enclosed offices.
   PUBLIC MEETING. Any meeting of a city governing body, Agency or Board
conducted pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Sections 23(a) and 23(b) and Chapter
30A, Sections 18 et seq.
   SMOKING. The act of smoking or having in one’s possession any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or any other tobacco product.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 2; CBC 1985 21-5.2)
21-5.3   Prohibition.
   No person shall smoke in a public building or at a public meeting except in
designated smoking areas. This prohibition does not apply where an entire room
or hall is used for a private social function and seating arrangements are
under the control of the sponsor of the function.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 3; CBC 1985 21-5.3) Penalty, see Subsection 21-5.5
21-5.4   Designated Smoking Areas.
   (A)   Smoking areas may be designated in public buildings, except in places
where smoking is prohibited by regulation of the Board of Fire Prevention.
   (B)   Where smoking areas are designated, existing physical barriers and
ventilation systems shall be used to minimize the effects of smoke in adjacent
nonsmoking areas. In the case of a public building consisting of a single room,
the requirement of this Section will be satisfied if one section of the room is
reserved and posted as an area in which smoking is allowed and the remaining
area is posted as a no smoking section.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 4; CBC 1985 21-5.4)
21-5.5   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person who violates Subsection 21-5.3 shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $50.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 5; CBC 1985 21-5.5)
21-5.6   Educational Program.
   The Boston School Department shall institute an educational program in all
junior and senior high schools in the city on the harmful effects of smoking.
This program shall include a study of the physical health damage caused to both
smokers and nonsmokers and shall be offered each year as part of the school
curriculum.
(Ord. 1980 c. 16 § 6; CBC 1985 21-5.6)
21-6   CONCERNING INSTALLATION OF FIRE AND SMOKE DETECTORS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance now in existence, it
shall be the duty and responsibility of the legal owner or his or her agent of
a building structure to install fire and/or smoke detectors within the premises
as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 26C.
(Ord. 1979 c. 36 § 1; CBC 1985 21-6)
CHAPTER XXII: SUFFOLK COUNTY
Section
22-1   SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE COMMISSION
22-2   SUFFOLK COUNTY
22-1   SUFFOLK COUNTY COURTHOUSE COMMISSION.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T18 c. 1; CBC 1985 22-1)
22-2   SUFFOLK COUNTY.
   No ordinances apply. See special statutes.
(CBC 1975 St. T18 c. 3; CBC 1985 22-2)
CHAPTER XXIII: TRASH AND REFUSE DISPOSAL
Section
23-1   TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE
23-2   DUMPSTERS
23-3   PROHIBITING THE OPERATION OF REFUSE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES IN
THE CITY
23-4   MEDICAL WASTE DISPOSAL
23-5   RUBBISH DISPOSAL
23-6   RUMMAGING
23-7   SIZE OF BARRELS
23-8   OVERFILLING OF BARRELS OR DUMPSTER OF ANY SIZE
23-9   TRASH OUTSIDE OF PLACES OF BUSINESS
23-10   TRASH WITHIN PLACE OF BUSINESS
23-11   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO MAINTAIN OUTDOOR DUMPSTER
23-12   REFUSE CONTRACTORS REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED
23-13   CLEANING AND DISINFECTING OF STORAGE CONTAINERS; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
23-14   ESSENTIAL FACILITIES PERMITTED TO BE OPERATED OR ESTABLISHED
23-15   EXCLUSION FOR SYSTEM SERVING ONLY ONE BUILDING
23-16   REGULATIONS FOR NEW REFUSE TRANSFER STATIONS
23-17   CONDITIONS FOR ASSIGNMENT IMPOSED
23-18   APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
23-19   “NECESSARY AND ESSENTIAL” DESIGNATION OBTAINED FROM CITY COUNCIL
23-20   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES; FINES ESTABLISHED
23-21   VIOLATIONS; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT
23-22   RUBBISH DISPOSAL; PENALTY
23-23   ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY
23-24   ENFORCEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL LAW
23-1   TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE.
   No person, other than employees of the city or of a contractor acting for
the city while engaged in public work, shall transport or carry refuse in, upon
or through any street except in accordance with a permit from the Commissioner
of Public Works, who shall forthwith revoke such permit if the permittee
transports or carries to any refuse disposal incinerator constructed,
maintained and operated by the city any refuse originating outside the city.
The word REFUSE, as used in this Subsection, shall be construed to include
rubbish, ashes, nonputrescible industrial wastes and street cleanings, but not
garbage, offal or other offensive substances coming within M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Sections 31A and 31B.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 264; CBC 1985 23-1; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28;
Ord. 2008 c. 3) Penalty, see § 23-20
23-2   DUMPSTERS.
   No person shall, in or upon any way, street, alley or other public place
within the city, nor in or upon any estate within the city, maintain a dumpster
so-called, being a device used or intended for the storage of one cubic yard or
more of trash, rubbish, construction debris or the like, unless the same is
maintained agreeably to any regulation promulgated by the Commissioner of
Public Works nor unless bearing a number issued by the said Commissioner to the
owner of the dumpster, annually, upon payment of a filing fee of $10, plus $2
per dumpster.
(CBC 1985 23-2; Ord. 1986 c. 15 § 2; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-3   PROHIBITING THE OPERATION OF REFUSE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES IN
THE CITY.
   (A)   No person shall operate, establish or maintain, nor shall any place
within the city be operated, established or maintained for a refuse treatment
or disposal facility. For purposes of this Section, the term REFUSE TREATMENT
AND DISPOSAL FACILITY shall include a sanitary landfill, a refuse composting
plant, a dumping ground for refuse or any other works for treatment or
disposing of refuse; and REFUSE shall mean all solid or liquid waste materials,
including garbage and rubbish, but not including sewage.
   (B)   This Section shall not apply to any refuse treatment and disposal
facility lawfully in existence upon the effective date of this Section, nor
shall it apply to any refuse transfer station lawfully in existence or
undergoing review, in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 111,
Section 150A, should such review result in a site assignment within the term of
that Section, upon the effective date of this Section, nor shall it apply to
any waste to energy recovery facility operated by, or under contract with the
city; provided, however, that this division (B) shall not apply to afford an
exception in the case of or with respect to any parcel or parcels within said
city now, or in the ten years preceding the effective date of this Section,
upon which the commercial removal of stone, block or any mineral, mining or
quarrying activity has been performed.
   (C)   This Section shall not apply to any on-site energy recovery waste
disposal system which serves only the building within which it is located.
   (D)   Every new refuse transfer station shall be in a completely enclosed,
covered structure and be located in an area zoned for industrial use.
(Ord. 1976 c. 13 §§ 1, 2; Ord. 1981 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1983 c. 34 §§ 2, 3, 4; CBC
1985 23-3; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see § 23-20
Editor’s note:
   The effective date of this Section is November 3, 1976.
23-4   MEDICAL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   No person shall store, keep, transport, dispose or prepare for transport or
disposal of infectious and/or hazardous medical waste as that term is defined
in the Code of Massachusetts Regulations (“CMR”), except in accord with such
regulations, nor unless the same are wrapped or placed in a container which
will prevent puncture by, or spillage of, such waste, nor unless the same is
then bagged in a plastic or craft paper container (meeting the requirements of
the ordinances for strength) marked “INFECTIOUS AND/OR HAZARDOUS MEDICAL
WASTE”. No person shall dispose of such waste in any manner inconsistent with
commonwealth or federal law.
(CBC 1985 23-4; Ord. 1988 c. 17 § 1; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 §§ 19, 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-5   RUBBISH DISPOSAL.
   The owner or person in control of any premises within the city shall at all
times maintain the sidewalks, alleys, streets and places adjoining the premises
free of trash, refuse, rubbish or debris; provided, however, that this
Subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter in the manner and at the
times prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Works for purposes of
collection.
(Ord. 1975 c. 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 294; CBC 1985 23-5; Recodified by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see § 23-20
23-6   RUMMAGING.
   No person shall in any public way, public alley or other public place under
the charge of the Commissioner of Public Works or upon any roadway or walk
thereof rummage in or through rubbish or refuse of any kind or interfere with
any bundle of rubbish or refuse or any receptacle containing rubbish or refuse.
For fines, see Section 23-20.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 295; CBC 1985 23-6; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28;
Ord. 2008 c. 3) Penalty, see § 23-20
23-7   SIZE OF BARRELS.
   No person shall deposit, drop or throw any filth, rubbish or other substance
into a drum or other barrel with a diameter of more than 20 inches or a height
of more than 28 inches if by law or by arrangement such filth, rubbish or other
substance is to be collected therefrom by the Public Works Department (whether
through employees in its service or through an independent contractor acting
for it) or by a person having a permit under Section 23-1 or M.G.L. Chapter
111, Section 31A.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 296; CBC 1985 23-7; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see Section 23-20
23-8   OVERFILLING OF BARRELS OR DUMPSTER OF ANY SIZE.
   No person shall deposit, drop or throw into a drum or other barrel with a
diameter of 20 inches or less and a height of 28 inches or less, or dumpster of
any size, any filth, rubbish or other substance which by law or by arrangement
is to be collected therefrom by the Public Works Department (whether through
employees in its service or through an independent contractor acting for it) or
by a person having a permit under Section 23-1 or M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section
31A if such drum or barrel or dumpster will thereby be filled so high that such
filth, rubbish or other substance or any part thereof is likely to drop or fall
from such receptacle while it is being moved in the process of such collection.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 297; Ord. 1985 c. 7; CBC 1985 23-8; Recodified by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see Section 23-20
23-9   TRASH OUTSIDE OF PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   No person in control of a place of business abutting on a sidewalk shall
knowingly suffer any rubbish, litter, filth, garbage or other refuse to remain
on such sidewalk except in a receptacle or bundle placed on such sidewalk in
accordance with the provisions in Section 23-1. No dumpsters shall be allowed
to remain on a property in an overflowing condition.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 301; Ord. 1985 c. 9 § 1; CBC 1985 23-9; Recodified by Ord.
1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see § 23-20
23-10   TRASH WITHIN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person in control of a place of business abutting on a street shall
knowingly suffer any rubbish, litter or other refuse to remain in the open on
the estate upon which such place of business is located except in a receptacle
or bundle from which such rubbish, litter or refuse is not likely to be blown
onto such street. No dumpster shall be allowed to remain on a property in an
overflowing condition.
(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 302; Ord. 1985 c. 9 § 2; CBC 1985 23-10; Recodified by
Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see § 23-20
23-11   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO MAINTAIN OUTDOOR DUMPSTER.
   Every application for a permit to maintain an outdoor dumpster at a said
location must be accompanied by evidence that a licensed refuse contractor
servicing the facility will provide periodic pickup and removal of the refuse
and cleaning and treatment against rodent or insect infestation at intervals
not exceeding one week. The applicant must also supply evidence that the
immediate area where the dumpster is to be located is free of rodent and insect
infestation. If the applicant fails to have the refuse picked up and removed,
or to have the area and the dumpster itself cleaned and treated within the
specified time, the permit shall be revoked.
(Ord. 1982 c. 38 § 2; CBC 1985 23-11; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-12   REFUSE CONTRACTORS REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED.
   Each refuse contractor operating within the city shall be licensed annually
by the Environmental Health Services Division of the Health and Hospitals
Department.
(Ord. 1982 c. 38 § 3; CBC 1985 23-12; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-13   CLEANING AND DISINFECTING OF STORAGE CONTAINERS; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Each refuse contractor licensed by the Boston Health and Hospitals
Department who stores refuse containers within the city shall be required to
clean and disinfect said containers before they are stored. Failure to do so
shall be punishable by a fine of $50 per container, per day. The lot, yard or
other area where containers are stored must be treated against rodent and
insect infestation at intervals not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 1982 c. 38 § 3A; CBC 1985 23-13; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-14   ESSENTIAL FACILITIES PERMITTED TO BE OPERATED OR ESTABLISHED.
   No person shall establish, maintain, operate or use any place within the
city, nor shall any place within the city be operated, established or
maintained for a refuse treatment or disposal facility, unless such facility
has been determined to be absolutely essential or necessary to protect the
public health and as a result assigned by the Board of Health and Hospitals in
accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section 150A after a public hearing and the
use and plans or design therefor have been approved by the commonwealth’s
Department of Environmental Quality Engineering. The process to determine the
essential or necessary status of any and all site applications is defined in
Section 23-19. For the purposes of this Section, the term REFUSE TREATMENT AND
DISPOSAL FACILITY shall include a sanitary landfill, a refuse composting plant,
a dumping ground for refuse, a refuse transfer station, an incinerator with a
grate area in excess of 10 square feet, a residual waste storage or treatment
plant, a site for the storage of wastes generated at another location or any
other works for treating, disposing, recycling or recovering resources from
refuse. REFUSE shall mean all solid or liquid waste materials including garbage
and rubbish, but not including sewage.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 1; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28) Penalty, see § 23-21
23-15   EXCLUSION FOR SYSTEM SERVING ONLY ONE BUILDING.
   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any on-site energy
recovery waste disposal system which serves only the building within which it
is located.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 2; CBC 1985 23-15; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-16   REGULATIONS FOR NEW REFUSE TRANSFER STATIONS.
   Every new refuse transfer station shall be a completely enclosed, covered
structure and be located in an area zoned for industrial use.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 3; CBC 1985 23-16; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-17   CONDITIONS FOR ASSIGNMENT IMPOSED.
   No person shall establish, maintain, operate or use an assigned facility
other than in accordance with conditions of assignment imposed by the Board of
Health and Hospitals and the commonwealth’s Departments of Environmental
Quality Engineering approved plans.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 4; CBC 1985 23-17; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-18   APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Section 23-14 shall not apply to any assigned facility which was assigned as
of December 30, 1983 and has Department of Environmental Quality Engineering
approved plans; provided, however, that any assigned facility that applies for
a substantial modification, change or amendment in the original site assignment
shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 5; CBC 1985 23-18; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5, § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-19   “NECESSARY AND ESSENTIAL” DESIGNATION OBTAINED FROM CITY COUNCIL.
   Prior to any application for site assignment to the Health and Hospitals
Department of the city under the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 111, Section
150A, the prospective applicant must obtain a “necessary and essential”
designation from the City Council. These designations may be obtained by the
approval of a majority vote of the Council and the approval of the Mayor;
provided, however, that if the Mayor disapproves the designation, the Council
may approve the designation notwithstanding the disapproval of the Mayor by a
two-thirds vote of all the Councillors. Such votes for the approval of a
designation shall be identical in format to any ordinance. The prospective
applicant shall petition the City Council, through the City Clerk, on forms
approved by the Clerk, which shall include, but not be limited to, name,
address and telephone number of applicant; place of current business; proposed
site; type of business to be allowed; size and structure of proposed facility;
list of abutters; and statement of petitioner as to the “necessary and
essential” nature of the proposed facility. The attested results of the final
vote of the City Council relative to the petition shall be forwarded by the
City Clerk to the petitioner forthwith. Any petitioner aggrieved by any action
of the City Council refusing to grant the necessary and essential designation,
within seven days after such action, may appeal therefrom to the Board of
Health and Hospitals. The Board of Health and Hospitals through its Trustees,
or their designee, shall review the petition within 60 days and render a
decision. The decision of the Board of Health and Hospitals shall be final.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 6; CBC 1985 23-19; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Penalty, see § 23-20
23-20   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES; FINES ESTABLISHED.
   Any person violating any provision of the following enumerated Sections of
this Chapter shall be punished by the following penalties for violations
thereof; and not only the person actually performing the prohibited act of
thing, but also his or her employer and every other person concerned in so
doing shall be punished by such fine.
   (A)   Section 23-1: $200;
   (B)   Section 23-2: $300;
   (C)   Section 23-3: The owner and/or operator of a facility in violation of
this Section shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 per
violation. Each entering loaded vehicle or loaded container of refuse delivered
to the facility, the refuse from which is processed or stored either in a
container or on the ground at the facility, shall constitute a separate
violation. Each day of operation or maintenance shall constitute a separate
violation;
   (D)   Section 23-4: $300;
   (E)   Section 23-5: $25 for residential premises;
   (F)   Section 23-6: $10;
   (G)   Section 23-7: $10;
   (H)   Section 23-8: $100;
   (I)   Section 23-9: $50; and
   (J)   Section 23-10: $50.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 § 8; CBC 1985 23-20; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28; Ord.
2008 c. 3)
23-21   VIOLATIONS; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The user of a facility in violation of Section 23-14 shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 per violation. Both the waste hauling
company and the vehicle operator shall be considered users. Each loaded vehicle
or loaded container of refuse delivered to the facility for processing or for
storage, either in a container or on the ground, at the facility shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Board of Health and Hospitals, through its Commissioner of Health
and Hospitals shall have enforcement powers hereunder.
   (C)   This Section shall take effect upon passage; provided however, that
any current license holder shall be exempt but that any current applicant or
future applicant for a license shall be subject to the provisions of this
Section.
(Ord. 1985 c. 10 §§ 1–12; CBC 1985 23-21; Recodified by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
23-22 RUBBISH DISPOSAL; PENALTY.
   In the city, fines for violation of M.G.L. Chapter 270, Section 16, shall be
determined based on volume, location and content subject to the following
schedule.
   (A)   Up to and including one cubic yard illegally dumped in an unauthorized
container will be fined $100. Up to and including one cubic yard illegally
dumped in a vacant lot or on a public way and or public property will be fined
$250. Up to and including one cubic yard illegally dumped in a park or
playground will be fined $500. Any volume between one and five cubic yards
found in a vacant lot or on a public way and/or public property will be fined
$1,000. If illegally dumped in a park or playground, any volume between one and
five cubic yards will be fined $1,500. Five cubic yards or more found in a
vacant lot or on a public way and/or property will be fined $2,500 and five
cubic yards or more illegally dumped in a park or a playground will be fined
$3,000.
   (B)   Restricted solid waste as defined in 310 CMR 19 the commonwealth’s
Department of Environmental Protection, including, but not limited to,
televisions, major appliances and computer monitors, in any and all volumes
illegally dumped in any and all locations will be fined $2,000.
   (C)   Construction debris and other related materials, in any and all
volumes, illegally dumped in any and all locations will be fined $2,500 and
referred to the Boston Environmental Strike Team (“B.E.S.T.”) for further
investigation and enforcement.
   (D)   Hazardous/toxic waste as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 21C, Section 2,
M.G.L. Chapter 21I, Section 2, M.G.L. Chapter 21I, Section 9, 310 CMR 16 the
commonwealth’s Department of Environmental Protection and 310 CMR 19 the
commonwealth’s Department of Environmental Protection, in any and all volumes
illegally dumped in any and all locations will be fined $3,000 and referred to
B.E.S.T. for investigation and enforcement including additional fines where
authorized.
(CBC 1985 23-22; Ord. 2007 c. 10 §§ 1, 2)
23-23 ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department and/or the
Commissioner of the Public Works Department shall have the authority to enforce
this Chapter and to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and
enforce these Sections. This Chapter may be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 D as inserted by St. 1977, c. 401.
(CBC 1985 23-23; Ord. 2008 c. 3; Ord. 2014 c. 1 § 1)
23-24   ENFORCEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL LAW.
   Any person taking cognizance of a violation of the Sections of this Code set
forth in this Chapter hereof which he or she is empowered to enforce by
statute, ordinance or by appointment as special Police Officer may enforce said
ordinances in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D as inserted by St.
1977, c. 401.
(Ord. 1977 c. 16 [371]; CBC 1985 23-24; Ord. 2008 c. 3)
CHAPTER XXIV: BOSTON JOBS, LIVING WAGE AND PREVAILING WAGE ORDINANCE
Section
24-1   TITLE AND PURPOSE
24-2   DEFINITIONS
24-3   APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS
   
24-3.1   Applicability
   
24-3.2   Exemptions
   
24-3.3   Affidavit Certifying Exemption Required
   
24-3.4   Waivers
24-4   FIRST SOURCE HIRING AGREEMENTS
24-5   NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
24-6   LIVING WAGE PAYMENT TO EMPLOYEES
   
24-6.1   Applicability
   
24-6.2   Calculation of the Living Wage
24-7   DUTIES OF COVERED VENDORS
   
24-7.1   Notification Requirements
   
24-7.2   Maintenance and Examination of Payroll Records
   
24-7.3   Vendor Agreements
   
24-7.4   Reports
   
24-7.5   Transitional Employment Period
   
24-7.6   Provision of Standard Compensation to Covered Building Service
Employees
24-8   LIVING WAGE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
   
24-8.1   Purpose
   
24-8.2   Composition and Term
   
24-8.3   Meetings
   
24-8.4   Conflict of Interest
24-9   ENFORCEMENT POWERS
24-10   COMPLAINT PROCEDURES AND INVESTIGATIONS
   
24-10.1   Complaints
   
24-10.2   Discrimination Against Covered Employees Barred
   
24-10.3   Investigations
   
24-10.4   Noncompliance
   
24-10.5   Living Wage Advisory Committee Compliance Review Hearings
24-11   PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
24-12   EARNED INCOME CREDIT NOTIFICATION
24-13   SEVERABILITY
24-14   EFFECTIVE DATE
Editor’s note:
   Prior ordinance history includes portions of Ordinance Nos. 1997 c. 5 and
1998 c. 3.
24-1   TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This Chapter shall be known as the “Boston Jobs, Living Wage and Prevailing
Wage Ordinance”. The purpose of this Chapter is to assure that employees of
vendors who contract with the city to provide services earn an hourly wage that
is sufficient for a family of four to live at or above the federal poverty
level, and to ensure that city dollars are not used to undercut the prevailing
standards that have been attained by building service workers. This Chapter is
also designed to maximize access for low and moderate income Bostonians to the
jobs that are created, maintained or subsidized through service contracts with
the city.
(CBC 1985 24-1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 1-2)
24-2   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSISTANCE. Any grant, loan, tax incentive, bond financing, subsidy or other
form of assistance of $100,000 or more realized by or through the authority or
approval of the city, including, but not limited to, industrial development
bonds, Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”) loans and Federal Enhanced
Enterprise Community designations awarded after the effective date of this
Chapter. The forgiveness of a loan shall be regarded as financial assistance. A
loan shall be regarded as financial ASSISTANCE to the extent of any
differential between the amount of the loan and the present value of the
payments thereunder, discounted over the life of the loan by the applicable
federal rate as used in 26 U.S.C. §§ 1274(d) and 7872(f). A recipient of
ASSISTANCE shall not be deemed to include leases and subleases.
   BENEFICIARY. Any direct recipient of at least $100,000 of assistance
provided that the beneficiary is a for-profit employer of at least 25 FTEs or a
not-for-profit employer of at least 100 FTEs.
   BUILDING SERVICES or BUILDING SERVICE WORK. Work performed in connection
with the cleaning and maintenance of buildings and security guard services.
   CONTRACTING DEPARTMENT. Any City Department that awards a service contract
or covered building service contract.
   COVERED BUILDING SERVICE CONTRACT. A contract or subcontract to provide
building services to the city.
   COVERED BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any person employed, directly or indirectly, to perform building
service work in the performance of a covered building service contract;
      (2)   Any person employed, directly or indirectly, to perform building
service work on covered city-owned property; and
      (3)   Any person employed, directly or indirectly, to perform building
service work on premises that are the subject of a covered lease.
   COVERED BUILDING SERVICE VENDOR. An employer providing building services
pursuant to a covered building service contract.
   COVERED CITY OWNED PROPERTY. Buildings owned by the city.
   COVERED EMPLOYEE. A person employed by a covered vendor, other than a
covered building service employee, who directly expends or would directly
expend his or her time on the service contract with the city or on the service
subcontract.
   COVERED LEASE. Any agreement whereby the city contracts for, leases or rents
commercial office space or commercial office facilities from a non-governmental
entity provided the city, whether through a single agreement or multiple
agreements, rents no less than 51% of the total square footage of the buildings
to which the lease applies.
   COVERED LESSEE. Any non-governmental person or entity that contracts for,
leases or rents space in covered city owned property from the city.
   COVERED LESSOR. Any non-governmental person or entity that enters into a
covered lease with the city.
   COVERED VENDOR. Any for-profit employer or any not-for-profit employer,
other than a covered building service vendor, who employs at least 25 FTEs who
has been awarded a service contract or service subcontract after the effective
date of this Section. This term does not include beneficiary as herein defined.
   DESIGNATED DEPARTMENT. The City Department or Agency, designated by the
Mayor, to be responsible for the overall implementation, compliance and
enforcement of this Chapter.
   FIRST SOURCE HIRING AGREEMENT. A signed agreement between a covered vendor
or a beneficiary and a referral agency.
   FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT (“FTE”). A formula to calculate the number of employee
work hours which equal one full-time position. For the purposes of this
Chapter, FULL-TIME shall mean the standard number of working hours, between 35
hours and 40 hours per week, that is used by the covered vendor to determine
full-time employment.
   LIVING WAGE. The rate established by the designated Department as the
minimum hourly wage rate that shall be paid to a covered employee by a covered
vendor pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 24-6.
   LOW AND MODERATE INCOME PERSONS. Persons with an annual income that is less
than 80% of median income for the Boston Primary Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Area as published by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   PERSON. One or more of the following or their Agents, employees, servants,
representatives and legal representatives: individuals, corporations,
partnerships, joint ventures, associations, labor organizations, educational
institutions, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated
organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries and all
other entities recognized at law by this commonwealth.
   REFERRAL AGENCY. Any organized job registry and referral service operated by
a not-for-profit organization or union; provided that the not-for-profit
organization has the following:
      (1)   An established community membership base and record of conducting
outreach in low and moderate income city communities;
      (2)   A computerized skills bank where individuals may register for
employment and training opportunities;
      (3)   An established process whereby an employer can post job openings,
and where referrals can begin within 48 hours of such posting;
      (4)   A governing Board comprised of a majority of low and moderate
income city residents; or the majority of services provided by the entity are
furnished to low and moderate income Boston residents;
      (5)   A proven track record of nondiscriminatory job placement with
respect to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, gender identity or
expression, sexual orientation, age, marital status, discharge from the
military service or handicap unrelated to job ability; and
      (6)   Is certified as meeting requirements (1) through (5) above by the
Boston Office of Jobs and Community Services.
   SERVICE CONTRACT. Any contract, other than a covered building service
contract, of at least $50,000 or more awarded to a vendor by the city for the
furnishing of services to or for the city. Beginning on July 1, 2002, SERVICE
CONTRACT shall mean any contract of at least $25,000 or more awarded to a
vendor by the city for the furnishing of services to or for the city.
   SERVICE SUBCONTRACT. A subcontract, other than a subcontract for building
services, of $25,000 or more awarded to a vendor by a covered vendor; provided
the subcontract is paid for by funds from the service contract.
   STANDARD COMPENSATION. The hourly rate of pay, benefits and paid leave that
shall be provided to a covered building service employee pursuant to the
formula set forth in Subsection 24-7.6.
   VENDOR AGREEMENT. A written agreement between the city and any covered
vendor, other than a covered building service vendor, that is executed at the
time a service contract is signed with the city or a subcontract is signed with
a covered vendor.
   YOUTH PROGRAM. Any city, commonwealth or federally funded program which
employs youth, as defined by city, commonwealth or federal guidelines, during
the summer, or as part of a school to work program, or in other related
seasonal or part-time program.
(CBC 1985 24-2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 2; Ord. 2001 c. 8; Ord. 2002 c. 9; Ord. 2021
c. 17 §§ 3 - 9)
24-3   APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.
24-3.1   Applicability.
   Where this Chapter applies to covered vendors, the provisions shall apply to
all covered vendors as defined in this Chapter, not including the exemptions
listed in Subsection 24-3.2.
(CBC 1985 24-3.1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 3; Ord. 2021 c. 17 § 10)
24-3.2   Exemptions.
   The following types of assistance, service contracts and subcontracts shall
be exempt from the provisions of this Section:   
   (A)   Construction contracts awarded by the city that are subject to the
commonwealth’s Prevailing Wage Law, being M.G.L. Chapter 149, Sections 26—27H;
   (B)   Assistance or contracts awarded to youth programs, as defined in this
Section; provided that the contract is for stipends to youth in the program;
   (C)   Assistance or contracts awarded to work-study or cooperative
educational programs; provided that the assistance or contract is for stipends
to students in the programs; and
   (D)   Assistance and contracts awarded to vendors who provide services to
the city and are awarded to vendors who provide trainees a stipend or wage as
part of a job training program and provides the trainees with additional
services, which may include, but are not limited to, room and board, case
management and job readiness services; and provided further that the trainees
do not replace current city funded positions.
(CBC 1985 24-3.2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 3)
24-3.3   Affidavit Certifying Exemption Required.
   Covered vendors and beneficiaries of assistance must certify in an affidavit
in a form approved by the designated Department and provided by the contracting
Department and signed by a Principal Officer of the covered vendor or
beneficiary of assistance, that one of the exemptions herein applies to them
before they can be considered exempt. The covered vendor or the beneficiary of
assistance shall submit the affidavit to the contracting Department who shall
forward a copy to the designated Department and the Living Wage Advisory
Committee.
(CBC 1985 24-3.3; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 3) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-3.4   Waivers.
   (A)   General waiver.
      (1)   Waivers may be granted by the designated Department where
application of this Chapter to a particular form of assistance, a service
contract or subcontract, a covered building service contract, a covered lease
or a lease of covered city owned property violates a specific commonwealth or
federal statutory, regulatory or constitutional provision or provisions. All
general waiver requests shall include the following:
         (a)   The assistance, service contract or subcontract, covered
building service contract, covered lease or lease of covered city owned
property to which this Chapter applies;
         (b)   The conflicting statutory, regulatory or constitutional
provision or provisions that makes compliance with this Chapter unlawful, and a
copy of each such provision; and
         (c)   An explanation of how compliance with this Chapter would violate
the cited provision or provisions, and the consequences that would result if
this violation were to occur.
      (2)   A general waiver request shall be submitted directly to the
designated Department. The designated Department shall forward a copy of all
requests to the Living Wage Advisory Committee.
   (B)   Hardship waiver.
      (1)   The contracting Departments shall monitor, and as necessary,
recommend to the designated Department, individual or group exemptions
necessary in cases in which compliance with this Chapter would cause undue
economic hardship. Such waivers shall be subject to the designated Department’s
approval after having held a public hearing on the request.
      (2)   All hardship waiver requests shall include the following:
         (a)   The service contract or service subcontract to which this
Chapter applies;
         (b)   The lower wage paid by the covered vendor, and
         (c)   A detailed explanation of how the payment of a living wage will
cause undue economic hardship including supporting financial statements.
      (3)   All hardship waiver requests shall be forwarded to the Living Wage
Advisory Committee. Hardship waivers under this Section shall not be applicable
to beneficiaries of assistance.
(CBC 1985 24-3.4; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 3; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 11 - 12)
24-4   FIRST SOURCE HIRING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   All covered vendors and all beneficiaries of assistance (hereinafter
referred to as “the employer” for the purposes of this Section) shall sign a
first source hiring agreement with one or more referral agencies or one or more
Boston One Stop Career Centers which shall include the following:
      (1)   Prior to announcing or advertising an employment position for work
which shall be performed as a result of a service contract, service subcontract
or assistance created either as a result of a vacancy of an existing position
or of a new employment position, the employer shall notify the referral agency
about the position, including a general description and the employer’s minimum
requirements for qualified applicants for such position;
      (2)   The employer shall not make such public announcement or
advertisement for a period of five business days after notification to the
referral agency of the availability of such position. Such five-day period is
hereinafter referred to as the “advance notice period”;
      (3)   The referral agency shall maintain a database of job opportunities
subject to this Chapter and shall provide information on such job opportunities
to all city residents who receive services;
      (4)   The advance notice period shall be waived if the referral agency
has no qualified candidates to refer to the covered vendor or beneficiary;
      (5)   The referral agency or career center shall institute a tracking
system and record which applicants were interviewed, which applicants were not
interviewed, and which applicants were hired for the positions;
      (6)   The agreement does not require the employer to comply with these
procedures if it fills the job vacancy or newly created position by transfer or
promotion from existing staff or from a file of qualified applicants previously
referred by the referral agency or career center; and
      (7)   The agreement shall not require the employer to hire any applicant
referred under the terms of this agreement.
   (B)   Beneficiaries who receive assistance from the city in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more in any 12-month period shall be required to comply with this
Section for five years from the date such assistance reaches the $1,000,000
threshold. Beneficiaries receiving less than $1,000,000 but at least $100,000
of assistance in any 12-month period shall be required to comply with this
Section for one year.
(CBC 1985 24-4; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 4) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-5   NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All contracting Departments engaged in the awarding of contracts shall
provide in writing, an explanation designed by the designated Department, of
the requirements of this Chapter in all requests for bids for service contracts
or covered building service contracts with the city. All persons who have
signed a service contract or covered building service contract with the city
shall forward a copy of such requirements to any person submitting a bid for a
subcontract on the service contract or covered building service contract.
   (A)   Notification for covered building service contracts. 
      (1)   All covered building service contracts and all solicitations for
building services issued by the city shall specifically state that all
requirements of this Chapter applicable to covered building service contracts,
including enforcement mechanisms, are applicable to the contract and
incorporated by reference, state that covered building service employees shall
not be paid less than standard compensation for the relevant classification,
and indicate:
         (a)   The number of hours of work required for the duration of the
contract;
         (b)   The standard compensation for the relevant classification or
classifications that is applicable to the covered building service employees;
         (c)   The process for annual price adjustments to accommodate
increases in the required compensation; and
         (d)   A statement that the violation of the standard compensation
requirement shall constitute a breach of contract.
      (2)   All solicitations for building services issued by the city shall
further require prospective covered building contractors to submit pricing on a
standard worksheet that is furnished by the city that breaks down the proposed
hourly pricing into itemized components.
   (B)   Notification for covered city owned property. Before entering into a
lease as the lessor of covered city owned property, the city shall specifically
state that all requirements of this Chapter applicable to leases of covered
city owned property, including enforcement mechanisms, are applicable to the
lease and incorporated by reference, and require, as a condition of the lease,
a contractual commitment from every covered lessee that, if the lessee enters
into a contract with a vendor to provide building services at the covered city
owned property:
      (1)   Each covered building service employee, whether or not he or she is
directly employed by the covered lessee, shall be provided with standard
compensation in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter;
      (2)   Any contract or subcontract entered into by the covered lessee for
the provision of building service work, any contract or subcontract entered
into by the covered lessee for property management and any lease with any
tenant shall contain the following provision: “The wages paid on an hourly
basis to any person providing building services, as defined in this Chapter,
and the amount of payment or contribution paid or payable on behalf of each
such person to cover benefits and the paid leave to be provided to each such
person, shall be at a rate greater or equal to the ‘standard compensation’ as
defined in this Chapter. A violation of this requirement shall constitute a
breach of contract”; and
      (3)   The covered lessee shall produce for inspection and copying
certified payroll records pertaining to any and all covered building service
employees for the prior three-year period upon request.
   (C)   Notification for covered leases. Before entering into a covered lease,
or extension, renewal, amendment or modification thereof, the city shall
specifically state that all requirements of this Chapter applicable to covered
leases, including enforcement mechanisms, are applicable to the lease and
incorporated by reference into the lease, and require, as a condition of the
lease, a certification, executed under penalty of perjury, that all covered
building service employees employed in or around the building to which the
lease pertains will be provided with standard compensation for the term of the
lease. Such certification shall be certified by the Chief Executive or Chief
Financial Officer of the covered lessor, or the designee of any such person.
The certification shall be annexed to a part of any covered lease. The
certification shall state that a violation of any provision of the
certification shall constitute a violation of the covered lease and of this
Chapter. In the certification, the covered lessor shall agree to provide
certified payroll reports pertaining to covered building service employees for
the prior three-year period upon request.
(CBC 1985 24-5; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 5; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 13 - 15) Penalty, see §
24-11
24-6   LIVING WAGE PAYMENT TO EMPLOYEES.
24-6.1   Applicability.
   Covered vendors shall pay no less than the living wage to covered employees.
(CBC 1985 24-6.1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 6) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-6.2   Calculation of the Living Wage.
   The living wage shall be calculated on an hourly basis and shall be no less
than $10.25 from the effective date of passage of this Section, subject to
adjustment each year on July 1:
   (A)   To the hourly rate which at 40 hours of work a week for 50 weeks a
year would be equal to but not less than 116% of the poverty threshold for a
family of four as published by the United States Department of Health and Human
Services;
   (B)   In proportion to the increase at the immediately preceding December 31
over the year earlier level of the Annual Average Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers (“CPI-U”) Boston-Lawrence-Salem, MA NH as published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor applied to
$10.25; or
   (C)   One hundred ten percent of the federal or commonwealth minimum wage;
or whichever of the foregoing is higher.
(CBC 1985 24-6.2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 6; Ord. 2001 c. 8) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-7   DUTIES OF COVERED VENDORS.
24-7.1   Notification Requirements.
   Covered vendors covered building service vendors, covered lessors and
covered lessees shall provide each covered employee and covered building
service employee with a fact sheet about this Chapter and shall post a notice
about the Chapter in a conspicuous location visible to all employees. The fact
sheet and poster shall be provided to the covered vendor, covered building
service vendor, covered lessor or covered lessee by the designated Department
and shall include:
   (A)   Notice of the living wage amount and notice of the standard
compensation amount;
   (B)   A summary of the provisions of this Chapter;
   (C)   A description of the enforcement provisions of the Chapter; and
   (D)   The name, address and phone number of a person designated by the
designated Department to which complaints of noncompliance with this Chapter
should be directed.
(CBC 1985 24-7.1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 7; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 16 - 19) Penalty, see
§ 24-11
24-7.2   Maintenance and Examination of Payroll Records.
   (A)   Maintenance of payroll records. Each covered vendor shall maintain
payrolls for all covered employees and basic records relating thereto for a
period of three years. The records shall contain the name and address of each
employee, the job title and classification, the number of hours worked each
day, the gross wages, deductions made, actual wages paid, a copy of the Social
Security returns and evidence of payment thereof, a record of fringe benefit
payments including contributions to approved plans, funds or programs and/or
additional cash payments and such other data as may be required by the
contracting Department from time to time.
   (B)   Examination of payrolls. Each covered vendor shall permit
representatives of the designated Department, or their designees, to observe
work being performed upon the work site, to interview employees and to examine
the books and records relating to the payrolls being investigated.
   (C)   Payroll reporting. On an annual basis, a covered building service
vendor shall file with the city a complete certified payroll report showing the
covered building service vendor’s payroll records for each covered building
service employee. The city shall maintain all certified payroll reports so that
they may be used in the event a complaint is made under the provisions of
Section 24-10.
(CBC 1985 24-7.2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 7; Ord. 2021 c. 17 § 20) Penalty, see § 24-
11
24-7.3   Vendor Agreements.
   At the time of signing a service contract with the city or subcontract with
a vendor, the contract with the covered vendor must include the following:
   (A)   The name of the program or project under which the contract or
subcontract is being awarded;
   (B)   A local contact name, address and phone number for the covered vendor;
   (C)    A written commitment by the covered vendor to pay all covered
employees not less than the living wage, subject to adjustment each July 1, and
to comply with the provisions of this Chapter;
   (D)   A workforce profile of covered employees paid for by the service
contract or subcontract including the employees’ job titles with wage ranges,
number of covered employees who are Boston residents, and the number of covered
employees who are minorities and women;
   (E)   A written narrative of the covered vendors’ past efforts and future
goals to hire low and moderate income Boston residents and train covered
employees; the potential for advancement and raises for covered employees; the
net increase and decrease in number of jobs or number of jobs maintained by
classification that will result from the awarding of the service contract; and
   (F)   For service contracts, a list of all service subcontracts either
awarded or that will be awarded to vendors with funds from the service
contract. Any covered vendor awarded a service contract shall notify the
contracting Department within three working days of signing a service
subcontract with a vendor.
(CBC 1985 24-7.3; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 7) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-7.4   Reports.
   (A)   Covered vendors and covered building service vendors shall provide
quarterly reports to the designated Department of their employment activities.
Not-for-profit vendors with 50 or more FTEs and all for-profit vendors shall be
required to provide such reports biannually. These reports shall include:
      (1)   The job positions charged to the service contract, covered building
service contract or service subcontract, the wage ranges of those positions;
and
      (2)   The total number of Boston residents, women and minorities who are
charged to the service contract, covered building service contract or service
subcontract.
   (B)   The designated Department shall submit a summary of said reports to
the Boston City Council and Living Wage Advisory Committee within 30 working
days following the end of each quarterly or biannual reporting period.
(CBC 1985 24-7.4; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 7; Ord. 2001 c. 8; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 21 -
23) Penalty, see § 24-11
24-7.5   Transitional Employment Period.
   (A)   The city shall give advance notice, to the extent practicable, to a
covered building service vendor and any collective bargaining representative of
the covered building service vendor’s employees that a covered building service
contract will expire or be terminated, and the city shall also provide the
name, address and telephone number of the successor covered building service
vendor or contractors where known. The expired or terminated covered building
service vendor shall, within 15 days after receipt of such notice, provide to
the successor covered building service vendor the name, address, date of hire
and employment occupation classification of each covered building service
employee employed at the site or sites covered by the building service contract
at the time of receiving said notice. The expired or terminated covered
building service vendor shall also provide this information to the city and to
any collective bargaining representative of the vendor’s employees. At the same
time, the expired or terminated vendor shall provide each affected employee
with notice of his or her right to obtain employment with the successor covered
building service vendor.
   (B)   A successor covered building service vendor or subcontractor where
applicable shall retain for a 90-day transitional employment period all covered
building service employees who were employed by the expired or terminated
covered building service vendor and its subcontractors at the location(s)
covered by the expired or terminated contract. This requirement shall not apply
in the event the city chooses to employ building service employees directly.
   (C)   If at any time the successor covered building service vendor
determines that fewer employees are required to perform the new service
contract than had been performing such services under the expired or terminated
contract, the successor covered building service vendor shall retain the
covered building service employees by seniority within job classification.
Except for such layoffs, during the 90-day transition period, the successor
covered building service vendor shall not discharge without cause a covered
building service employee pursuant to this Section. During the 90-day
transition period, the successor covered building service vendor shall maintain
a preferential hiring list of those covered building service employees not
retained from which the successor vendor or its subcontractors shall hire
additional employees. At the end of the 90-day transition employment period,
the successor covered building service vendor shall perform a written
performance evaluation for each covered building service employee retained
pursuant to this Chapter. If a covered building service employee’s performance
during such 90-day period is satisfactory, the successor covered building
service vendor or subcontractor shall offer the covered building service
employee continued employment under the terms and conditions established by the
successor covered building service vendor or subcontractor or as required by
law.
(CBC 1985 24-7.5; Ord. 2021 c. 17 § 24)
24-7.6   Provision of Standard Compensation to Covered Building Service
Employees.
   (A)   All covered building service vendors shall provide all covered
building service employees with no less than standard compensation. All covered
lessors shall ensure that all covered building service employees employed in or
around the building to which the relevant lease pertains are provided with no
less than standard compensation for the term of the lease. All covered lessees
that enter into a contract with a vendor to provide building services at a
covered city owned property shall ensure that all covered building service
employees are provided with no less than standard compensation for the term of
the lease.
   (B)   The city shall maintain a list of covered leases, leases of covered
city owned property and covered building service contracts. The list shall
include the addresses of: properties that are the subject of covered leases,
city owned property and locations covered by covered building service
contracts.
   (C)   Calculation of standard compensation is as follows.
      (1)   Standard compensation shall include, for the relevant
classification: 1) the standard hourly rate of pay, 2) standard paid leave and
3) standard benefits.
         (a)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for covered building service
employees other than unarmed or armed security guards shall be the greatest of
the following:
            1.   The Living Wage rate as defined in Subsection 24-6.2; or
            2.   The prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of
the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 27H.
         (b)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for unarmed security guards
shall be the greatest of the following:
            1.   The Living Wage rate as defined in Subsection 24-6.2; or
            2.   The prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of
the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to Section 3 of Chapter 195 of the
commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
          (c)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for armed security guards
shall be the greatest of the following:
            1.   The rate established by the Federal Department of Labor for
the Guard II classification in the Area Wage Determination applicable to work
performed within the County of Suffolk under the Federal Service Contract Act
(41 U.S.C. §§ 6701 et seq.); or
            2.   The prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of
Labor Standards pursuant to the commonwealth’s Prevailing Wage Law, Section 3,
Chapter 195 of the Acts of 2014.
         (d)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for covered building service
employees other than for unarmed or armed security guards shall be annually
adjusted to be no less than the greatest of the following:
            1.   The current Living Wage rate as defined in 24-6.2; or
            2. the current prescribed rate of wages as determined by the
Director of the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149,
Section 27H.
         (e)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for unarmed security guards
shall be annually adjusted to be no less than the greatest of the following:
            1.   The current Living Wage rate as defined in Subsection 24-6.2;
or
            2.   The current prescribed rate of wages as determined by the
Director of the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to Section 3 of Chapter
195 of the commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
         (f)   The “standard hourly rate of pay” for armed security guards
shall be annually adjusted to be no less than the greatest of the following:
            1.   The current rate established by the Federal Department of
Labor for the Guard II classification in the Area Wage Determination applicable
to work performed within the County of Suffolk under Federal Service Contract
Act (41 U.S.C. §§ 6701 et seq.); or
            2.   The current prescribed rate of wages as determined by the
Director of Labor Standards pursuant to the commonwealth’s Prevailing Wage Law,
Section 3, Chapter 195 of the Acts of 2014.
         (g)   “Standard paid leave” for covered building service employees
other than for unarmed or armed security guards shall be equal to the greatest
of the following:
            1.   Annual paid leave required under applicable local,
commonwealth or federal law; or
            2.   The paid leave provided under the prescribed rate of wages as
determined by Director of the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to M.G.L.
Chapter 149, Section 27H.
         (h)   “Standard paid leave” for unarmed or armed security guards shall
be equal to the greatest of the following:
            1.   Annual paid leave required under applicable local,
commonwealth or federal law; or
            2.   The paid leave provided under the prescribed rate of wages as
determined by the Director of the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to
Section 3 of Chapter 195 of the Acts of the commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
         (i)   The “standard benefits” for covered building service employees
other than for unarmed or armed security guards shall be an hourly supplement
furnished by a covered building service employer to a covered building service
employee in one of the following ways:
            1.   In the form of health and other benefits (not including paid
leave) that cost the covered building service employer the entire required
hourly supplemental amount;
            2.   By providing a portion of the required hourly supplement in
the form of health and other benefits (not including paid leave) and the
balance in cash; or
            3.   By providing the entire supplement in cash. The required
hourly supplemental rate for covered building service employees other than for
unarmed or armed security guards shall be equal to the monetary value of the
health and other benefits (not including paid leave) provided under the
prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of the Department of
Labor Standards pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 27H.
         (j)   The “standard benefits” for unarmed security guards shall be an
hourly supplement furnished by a covered building service employer to a covered
building service employee in one of the following ways:
            1.   In the form of health and other benefits (not including paid
leave) that cost the covered building service employer the entire required
hourly supplemental amount;
            2.   By providing a portion of the required hourly supplement in
the form of health and other benefits (not including paid leave) and the
balance in cash; or
            3.   By providing the entire supplement in cash. The required
hourly supplemental rate for unarmed security guards shall be equal to the
monetary value of the health and other benefits (not including paid leave)
provided under the prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of
the Department of Labor Standards pursuant to Section 3 of Chapter 195 of the
commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
         (k)   1.   The “standard benefits” for armed security guards shall be
an hourly supplement furnished by a covered building service employer to a
covered building service employee in one of the following ways:
               a.   In the form of health and other benefits (not including
paid leave) that cost the covered building service employer the entire required
hourly supplemental amount;
               b.   By providing a portion of the required hourly supplement in
the form of health and other benefits (not including paid leave) and the
balance in cash; or
               c.   By providing the entire supplement in cash.
            2.   The required hourly supplemental rate for armed security
guards shall be equal to the greatest of the following:
               a.   The monetary value established by the Federal Department of
Labor for the Guard II classification in the Area Wage Determination applicable
to work performed within the County of Suffolk under Federal Service Contract
Act (41 U.S.C. § 6701 et seq.); or
               b.   The monetary value of the health and other benefits (not
including paid leave) provided under the prescribed rate of wages as determined
by the Director of the Department of Labor standards pursuant to Section 3 of
chapter 195 of the commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
         (l)   The “standard benefits” for building service workers other than
unarmed or armed security guards shall be adjusted annually to be no less than
equal to the current monetary value of the health and other benefits (not
including paid leave) as determined by the Director of the Department of Labor
standards pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 149, Section 27H.
         (m)   The “standard benefits” for unarmed security guards shall be
adjusted annually to be no less than equal to the current monetary value of the
health and other benefits (not including paid leave) provided under the
prescribed rate of wages as determined by the Director of the Department of
Labor Standards pursuant to Section 3 of Chapter 195 of the commonwealth’s Acts
of 2014.
         (n)   The “standard benefits” for armed security guards shall be
adjusted annually to be no less than equal to the value of the greatest of the
following:
            1.   The current monetary value established by the Federal
Department of Labor for the Guard II classification in the Area Wage
Determination applicable to work performed within the County of Suffolk under
Federal Service Contract Act (41 U.S.C. §§ 6701 et seq.); or
            2.   The current monetary value of the health and other benefits
(not including paid leave) provided under the prescribed rate of wages as
determined by the Director of the Department of Labor standards pursuant to
Section 3 of chapter 195 of the commonwealth’s Acts of 2014.
      (2)   For the purposes of this Chapter, “benefits” shall not include
workers compensation or other legally mandated insurance, nor shall it include
the value of any benefit for which the covered building service employee is
eligible, but for which no payment is actually made by a covered building
service employer to the covered building service employee or to any other party
on the covered building service employee’s behalf because the covered building
service employee either does not actually utilize or does not elect to receive
the benefit for any reason.
(CBC 1985 24-7.6; Ord. 2021 c. 17 § 24)
24-8   LIVING WAGE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
24-8.1   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Living Wage Advisory Committee shall be to review the
effectiveness of this Chapter in creating and retaining living wage jobs in
Boston, to promote access to living wage jobs for low and moderate income
Bostonians, to review the implementation and enforcement of this Chapter, and
to make recommendations, from time to time, in connection therewith.
(CBC 1985 24-8.1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 8)
24-8.2   Composition and Term.
   (A)   The Living Wage Advisory Committee shall be comprised of seven members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor as follows.
      (1)   One member of the Committee shall be a labor union member appointed
by the Mayor from a list of three nominees recommended by the Greater Boston
Labor Council, AFL-CIO.
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed by the Mayor from community-based
organizations operating solely within the city.
      (3)   One member shall be from the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce
appointed by the Mayor from a list of three nominees recommended by the
Chamber.
      (4)   One member shall be appointed by the Mayor from an organization
representing small and local businesses operating solely within the city.
      (5)   Two members shall be at large members appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Each member of this Committee shall serve a three-year term.
(CBC 1985 24-8.2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 8; Ord. 2014 c. 12)
24-8.3   Meetings.
   The Living Wage Advisory Committee shall meet quarterly and in special
session as required. All meetings of the Living Wage Advisory Committee shall
be open to the public under the commonwealth’s Open Meeting Law, being M.G.L.
Chapter 30A, Sections 18—25 and 940 CMR 29.00. The Committee shall promulgate
regulations and rules which allow for public participation and testimony at
hearings and meetings.
(CBC 1985 24-8.3; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 8)
24-8.4   Conflict of Interest.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, no member of the Living Wage Advisory
Committee shall participate in any proceeding concerning a beneficiary, a
covered vendor, a covered employee or applicant for waiver or exemption, if the
member or any member of his or her immediate family has a direct or indirect
financial interest in said individual or in the award of a service contract,
subcontract or assistance or the granting of relief to said individual.
(CBC 1985 24-8.4; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 8)
24-9   ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   If necessary for the enforcement of this Chapter, the designated Department
may issue subpoenas, compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
production of books, papers, records and documents relating to payroll records
necessary for hearing, investigations and proceedings. The designated
Department may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce these
provisions.
(CBC 1985 24-9; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 9)
24-10   COMPLAINT PROCEDURES AND INVESTIGATIONS.
24-10.1   Complaints.
   (A)   A person or an employee who believes that he or she is a covered
employee or covered building service employee or a person who is an applicant
for a position to be filled by a covered employee or covered building service
employee and believes that his or her employer is not complying with
requirements of this Chapter applicable to the employee, may file a complaint
with the designated Department. Complaints by covered employees or covered
building service employees of alleged violations may be made at any time.
Statements written or oral, made by an employee, shall be treated as
confidential and shall not be disclosed to the covered vendor, covered building
service vendor, covered lessor or covered lessee without the consent of the
employee.
   (B)   A complaint of noncompliance with this Chapter may be filed by any
person with the designated Department, which shall provide a copy of the
complaint to each covered vendor, covered building service vendor, covered
lessor or covered lessee against whom the complaint is made within five
business days.
(CBC 1985 24-10.1; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 10; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 25 - 28)
24-10.2   Discrimination Against Covered Employees Barred.
   If a covered vendor, covered building service vendor, covered lessor or
covered lessee: discharges; reduces the compensation of; or discriminates
against any covered employee or covered building service employee or any other
person for making a complaint to the designated Department, otherwise asserting
his or her rights under this Chapter, participating in any of its proceedings,
or using any civil remedies to enforce his or her rights under the Chapter, the
covered vendor, covered building service vendor, covered lessor or covered
lessee shall be considered in violation of this Chapter. The designated
Department shall investigate allegations of retaliation or discrimination and
shall, if found to be true, after notice and a hearing order appropriate relief
to the employee or person and penalties for the covered vendor, covered
building service vendor, covered lessor or covered lessee and may suspend the
contract or order the service contractor to suspend the subcontract.
(CBC 1985 24-10.2; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 10; Ord. 2021 c. 17 § 29 - 30)
24-10.3   Investigations.
   The designated Department, or its designee, shall investigate all complaints
of noncompliance. Investigations may include routine reviews, spot checks and
investigations pursuant to complaints. The designated Department, or its
designee, shall have the responsibility to examine promptly all payrolls for
compliance upon receiving a complaint, in furtherance of any investigation.
(CBC 1985 24-10.3; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 10)
24-10.4   Noncompliance.
   (A)   If the designated Department finds evidence that the covered vendor,
covered building service vendor, covered lessor or covered lessee is not in
compliance or has violated any of the provisions of this Chapter, the
designated Department shall order such remedial measures as required to ensure
compliance herewith including, but not limited to: ordering back-pay to covered
employees or covered building service employees for noncompliance with Section
24-6, Living Wage Payment to Employees or noncompliance with Subsection 24-7.6,
Provision of Standard Compensation to Covered Building Service Employees.
   (B)   If the covered vendor, covered building service vendor, covered lessor
or covered lessee does not comply with the designated Department’s order within
ten working days, the designated Department shall review the facts of the
finding and may proceed with a formal hearing and investigation. If a hearing
is held by the designated Department, the Department shall review remedies and
penalties with the Living Wage Advisory Committee. If the designated Department
decides not to proceed with a hearing, it shall so notify the Living Wage
Advisory Committee and provide a statement of the reasons for the decision.
(CBC 1985 24-10.4; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 10; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 31 - 34)
24-10.5   Living Wage Advisory Committee Compliance Review Hearings.
   The Living Wage Advisory Committee shall determine the need for an
additional public hearing on any recommendations by the designated Department.
If a hearing is deemed necessary, it shall be scheduled and conducted by the
Committee, in conjunction with the designated Department, within 20 business
days of the designated Department’s notification to the Committee of a covered
vendor’s noncompliance. The Committee shall file a notice of the hearing seven
working days before such hearing to the City Clerk, the covered vendor and the
complaining party or parties.
(CBC 1985 24-10.5; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 10)
24-11   PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Penalties. In the event that the designated Department determines,
after notice and hearing, that any covered vendor has failed to pay the living
wage rate or has otherwise violated the provisions of this Chapter, or that any
covered building service vendor, covered lessor or covered lessee has failed to
provide standard compensation or has otherwise violated the provisions of this
Chapter, the designated Department may order any or all of the following
penalties and relief
      (1)   Fines in the amount of $300 for each covered employee for each day
that the covered vendor is in violation of this Chapter;
      (2)   The filing of a complaint with the pertinent commonwealth or
federal Agency;
      (3)   Wage restitution for each affected employee and in addition, for
covered building service employees, the monetary value of benefits and paid
leave, plus interest owed;
      (4)   Suspension of ongoing contracts and subcontract payments;
      (5)   Ineligibility for future contracts with the city for three years or
until all penalties and restitution have been paid in full; and
      (6)   Any other action deemed appropriate and within the discretion and
authority of the city.
   (B)   Remedies herein non-exclusive. No remedy set forth in this Chapter is
intended to be exclusive or a prerequisite for asserting a claim for relief to
enforce the right granted under this Chapter in a court of law. This Chapter
shall not be construed to limit an employee’
(CBC 1985 24-11; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 11; Ord. 2021 c. 17 §§ 35 - 36)
24-12   EARNED INCOME CREDIT NOTIFICATION.
   Covered vendors and beneficiaries shall inform covered employees earning
less than $12 per hour, or such other amount as determined by the designated
Department, of their possible eligibility for the State and/or Federal Earned
Income Credit (“EIC”).
(CBC 1985 24-12; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 12)
24-13   SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any provision of this Chapter shall be held invalid or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not
invalidate or render unenforceable any other provisions hereof.
(CBC 1985 24-13; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 13)
24-14   EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Chapter shall be effective upon its passage.
(CBC 1985 24-14; Ord. 1998 c. 5 § 14)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Massachusetts General Laws
References to CBC 1975 and CBC 1985
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL LAWS
M.G.L. Cites Code Section
M.G.L. Cites       Code Section
2, § 6            1-3A.1
2, § 6A           1-3A.1
3                  2-15.4
                   2-10.5;
4, § 7            7-1.2;
                   15-13.2
4, § 7, c. 1.5    9-2.1
                   2-10.5;
                   7-1.2;
4, § 7, c. 5      7-7.1;
                   9-2.1;
                   12-1.1
4, § 7, c. 26     8-12.6;
                   12-17.7
4, § 7, c. 26(c)  10-11.4
6                  4-7.2
6, § 172B½       11-1.8
7, § 6            4-4.8
7C, §§ 44—57   4-4.32
10, § 58          5-9.1;
                   5-9.2
21C, § 2          23-22
21I, § 2          23-22
21I, § 9          23-22
22, § 9A          16-35.6
22, § 13A         9-11.1;
                   21-4.1
22C, §§ 51—68  17-17.2;
                   17-17.5
23, § 11H         8-9.1;
                   8-9.5
23, § 11I         8-9.1;
                   8-9.5
23A, § 44         4-4.8
25A, § 16         7-2.2
26, § 2           16-35.6
30, § 39M         4-2.2
30, § 39M(c)      4-5.2
                   2-12.5;
                   2-15.4;
                   7-2.2;
30A                7-2.3;
                   16-38.2;
                   16-38.5;
                   16-59.4
30A, §§ 1—6    2-12.5
30A, § 11         10-2.7;
                   10-2.11—10.2.13
                   6-6.5;
30A, § 14         16-12.8A;
                   17-10.5;
                   17-10.12
30A, §§ 18 et seq21-5.2
                   4-3.3;
30A, §§ 18—25  7-1.4;
                   24-8.3
30A, § 23(a)      21-5.2
30A, § 23(b)      21-5.2
30B                Charter 68; Charter 69;
                   5-1.3
                   Charter 24A; Charter 57; Charter 73;
                   5-4.5;
                   5-5.3—
                   5-5.5;
                   5-5.38;
31                 6-1.12;
                   6-6.1;
                   7-3.3;
                   7-8.2;
                   9-9.7;
                   11-3.7
31, § 64          16-35.6
35, § 56          5-1.5;
                   5-1.6
39                 Charter
39, § 6A          Charter 13A; Charter 16
40                 10-6.1
                   4-3.1;
40, § 4F          4-3.4;
                   4-3.5
40, § 6N          11-6.22
40, § 8A          8-5.3
40, § 8B          12-3.2
                   7-1.2;
40, § 8C          7-2.3;
                   18-1.5
40, § 8H          7-13.1;
                   7-13A.1
                   9-9.10;
                   11-2.4;
                   11-5A.5;
40, § 21          12-12.1;
                   16-66.9;
                   17-17;
                   17-17.5
40, § 21, c. 13(a)6-7.2
40, § 21, c. 16   11-6.43
                   7-2.2;
                   7-4.14;
                   7-4.15;
                   7-12;
                   7-13A;
                   9-1.3;
                   9-1.4;
                   9-9.8;
                   9-9.9;
                   9-9.12;
                   9-9.14;
                   9-9.15;
                   9-14.10;
                   10-2.10;
                   10-11.7;
                   11-5C.9;
                   12-16.5;
                   16-1.10A;
                   16-8.5;
                   16-12.8A;
                   16-12.31A;
                   16-12.37;
                   16-12.38;
40, § 21D         16-12.39;
                   16-12.40;
                   16-26.2—
                   16-26.4;
                   16-26.11;
                   16-27.6;
                   16-30.1;
                   16-32.4—
                   16-32.7;
                   16-33.6;
                   16-39.2;
                   16-40.2;
                   16-42.6;
                   16-46.1;
                   16-55;
                   16-57.5;
                   16-59.5;
                   16-60.1;
                   16-64;
                   16-65.8;
                   17-10.12;
                   17-17.8;
                   17-20.4;
                   23-23;
                   23-24
40, § 22          18-1.23
40, § 41          16-26.11
                   11-2.5;
40, § 58          11-5A.5A;
                   16-56
                   7-3.1;
                   7-3.2;
40C                7-3.3;
                   7-3.10;
                   18-1.5
40C, § 12A        7-3.7
40P, § 3(c)       10-2.1
                   7-2.2;
                   9-1.3;
                   9-9.12;
                   9-9.14;
40U                9-9.15;
                   9-14.10;
                   10-2.10;
                   10-11.7;
                   16-27.6;
                   16-39.4; 16-55
40U, § 12         7-2.2
41                 2-10.1
41, § 13B         18-1.10
41, § 18          2-10.4
41, § 81A         8-12.4
41, § 85          18-1.3
41, § 89          18-1.3
41, § 101A        16-35.6
41, § 106         7-4.7
43                 Charter
43B                Charter App. A;
                   7-1.4
43B, § 10(b)      Charter App. A
44, § 1           5-6.1
44, § 7           7-4.7
44, § 8           7-4.7
44, § 53          Charter 48; Charter 51;
                   5-1.11.2
44, § 53A         Charter 51;
                   6-3.11
                   6-9.1;
44, § 53E½       6-9.4;
                   11-7.14;
                   16-1.9D
44, § 53G         7-1.4
44, § 54          6-3.11
44, § 55          6-8.9
                   8-12.3;
44B                8-12.5;
                   8-12.7;
                   8-12.8
44B, § 5          8-12.1;
                   8-12.4
44B, § 6          8-12.7
45, § 1           7-4.8
45, § 5           7-4.8
46, § 13          18-1.2
46, § 13A         18-1.2
48, § 13          16-A1.1
50, § 3A          Charter 24A; Charter Appx. C
50, § 21          12-12.4
51, § 42          2-3.2
51, § 47B         2-3.2
54, § 1           Charter 19;
                   11-7.8
54, § 137         Charter 29
54A                Charter 1
55                 2-15.4
55, § 1           2-15.3
                   6-2.2;
59                 6-2.3;
                   18-9;
                   18-11.2
59, § 5           10-5.6;
                   10-6.2
59, § 5, c. 11    10-5.6;
                   10-6.2
59, § 5, c. 41C   6-3.13(c)
59, § 5, c. II    10-6.2
59, § 5C          6-3.13(c)
59, § 5K          12-3.4;
                   12-3.5
59, § 21C         Charter
59, § 57D         16-52.3
60, § 23B         18-1.13
60, § 34          6-3.3
60, § 35          6-3.5
60, § 36          6-3.5
60, § 53          6-3.13(d)
60, § 54          6-3.13(d)
60, § 60          18-1.18
60, § 62A         6-3.13(a);
                   6-3.13(d)
60, § 80          Charter 61
60, § 93          6-3.5
60A, § 2          6-2.3
60B                16-48.15
60B, § 3          16-48.6
64C, § 34         8-13.2
64J, § 14         Charter 56
66, § 6A          8-12.6;
                   12-17.7
                   5-1.11.6;
66, § 10          15-13.2;
                   18-1.16
66A                5-5.37
71, § 26C         Charter 51
71, § 34D         16-63.4
71, § 34E         16-63.4
71, § 34G         16-63.4
71, § 34H         16-63.4
71, § 37L         16-63.4
71, § 42          Charter 73
71, § 43A         Charter 73
71, § 43B         Charter 73
79                 Charter 59
80A                Charter 59
82A                18-1.20
83, § 12          9-1.2
83, § 16          18-9
85, § 11A         18-1.2
87                 7-4.7
87, § 1—3       7-4.7
87, § 5           7-4.7
87, § 7           7-4.7
87, § 13          7-4.7
90                 6-6.3;
                   16-30.1
90, § 1           7-7.4
90, § 2           6-7.2
90, § 10A½       6-6.1
90, § 16A         7-2.3
90, § 16B         7-2.3
90, § 20A         6-6.8
                   6-6.1;
                   6-6.2;
                   6-6.4—
                   6-6.7;
90, § 20A½       6-6.8;
                   6-6.10;
                   7-2.3;
                   16-12.41;
                   16-12.42
90, § 20C         6-6.1
90, §§ 20C—E   6-6.10
90, § 20E         6-6.1;
                   7-7.4
90B                16-60.1
90B, § 22         16-60.1
90C, § 2          7-7.4 
90C, § 3          7-7.4
90C, § 4A         6-6.10
                   16-48.4;
91                 16-48.8;
                   16-48.15
92, § 45          18-1.16
92, § 46          18-1.16
93, § 28A         18-1.3
94                 2-7.2
94, § 10B         18-1.2
94, § 41          18-1.13
94, § 45          18-1.18
94, § 48A         18-1.13
94, § 65I         18-1.6
94, § 65Q         18-1.6
94, § 89          18-1.5
94, § 139A        18-1.16
94, § 140         18-1.3
94, § 144         18-1.19
94, § 187A        12-7.2
94, § 197         12-7.2
94, § 219         18-1.3
94, § 221         17-4.12
94, § 238         18-1.3
94, § 262         18-1.3
94, § 296         18-1.3
94, § 300         17-4.11
94, § 303A        18-1.1
94, § 303B        18-1.1
94, § 305A        16-2.6
94, § 328         18-1.6
94B                6-6.6
94C                6-6.6
94C, § 27A        12-16.3
94D                6-6.6
94E                6-6.6
94F                6-6.6
94G                6-6.6
94I                6-6.6
95                 2-7.2
95, § 1           18-1.3
98, §§ 41—53   18-1.23
100                18-1.1
101                16-2.6;
                   16-39.1
101, § 1          17-14.4 
101, § 2          17-14.4
101, § 14         16-2.7
                   16-2.1;
101, § 17         16-2.4;
                   16-2.7;
                   18-1.8
101, § 19         17-5.1
101, § 33         2-7.8;
                   16-A1.1
102                2-7.2
102, § 6          17-4.6;
                   18-1.3
102, § 14         17-4.7
107, § 4          18-1.18
110, § 5          18-1.2
111, § 2-6B       16-40.5
111, § 2-7(a)(1)  16-40.5
111, § 2-7(a)(15) 16-40.5
111, § 2-8A       16-40.5
111, § 31         16-40.5;
                   18-1.3
                   18-1.7;
111, § 31A        23-1;
                   23-7;
                   23-8
111, § 31B        23-1
                   7-2.1;
111, § 31C        7-2.2;
                   18-1.19
111, § 59         18-1.4
                   9-1.2;
111, § 122        9-9.9;
                   17-15.2
111, § 123        9-1.2;
                   9-9.9
111, § 125        9-1.2;
                   9-9.9
111, § 127        9-1.2
                   9-1.2;
111, § 127A       9-11.2;
                   9-12.2
                   9-1.2;
111, § 127B       9-11.6;
                   9-12.2;
                   9-12.5
111, § 127L       10-2.5
111, § 143        18-1.15
                   18-1.4;
                   18-1.9;
111, § 150A       23-3;
                   23-14;
                   23-19
111, § 151        18-1.15
111B               12-14.1;
                   12-14.3
111B, § 3         12-14.2
111B, § 7         12-14.3
111B, § 8         12-14.1;
                   12-14.3
112, § 8          18-1.15;
                   18-1.16
112, § 21         18-1.3;
                   18-1.16
112, § 55         16-1.9F.2
112, § 70         18-1.15
112, § 87hhh      18-1.5
114, § 34         18-1.3
114, § 45         18-1.2
114, § 49         18-1.6
115, § 1          12-2.1
115, § 3          12-2.1
115, § 9          12-2.3
115, § 10         12-2.1
121B, § 1         10-2.1
129                16-1.9F.2
129, § 1          16-1.9G
130, § 74         16-4.1
130, § 75         16-4.1
131                5-5.26
131, § 12         16-A1.1
                   7-1.4;
131, § 40         7-2.3;
                   16-4A
136, § 4          18-1.19
136, § 7          18-1.19
138                17-19.1
138, § 1          Charter 17I;
                   16-12.28
138, § 34         16-12.29
138, § 34A        16-12.30;
                   16-12.31
138, § 34B        16-12.30A
                   16-1.9C;
140                17-18.1;
                   17-19.1
140, § 2          18-1.3;
                   18-1.9
140, § 21B        18-1.14
140, § 21E        16-A1.1;
                   18-1.3
140, § 22         9-1.3
140, § 23         18-1.12
140, § 25         9-1.3
140, § 32B        18-1.13;
                   18-1.20
140, § 32G        18-1.20
140, § 49         18-1.12
140, § 51         18-1.2;
                   18-1.13
140, § 54         17-4.1
140, § 59         18-1.19
140, § 70         11-1.8;
                   18-1.16
140, § 114b       6-8.3;
                   6-8.7
140, § 121        17-17.1
140, § 122        18-1.6;
                   18-1.7
140, § 122B       18-1.1
140, § 129B       18-1.6
140, § 131        17-17.1;
                   18-1.6
140, § 131A       18-1.6
                   16-A1.1;
                   16-1.9B.2;
140, § 137        16-1.9C;
                   16-1.9F.3;
                   18-1.4
140, § 137A       16-1.9F.2;
                   18-1.11
140, § 138        18-1.4
140, § 139        18-1.4
140, § 139(c)     18-1.4
140, § 146        18-1.4
140, § 147        16-1.9B.2;
                   18-1.4
140, § 150        2-4.1
                   2-4;
140, § 151        7-9.1;
                   14-5.1;
                   16-32.3
140, § 151A       7-9.3
140, § 155        11-10.2(e);
                   16-1.9F.1
140, § 157        11-10.2(e);
                   16-1.9B.2
140, § 157(c)     16-1.9B.2
140, § 157(h)     16-1.9B.2
140, § 173        16-1.9;
                   16-1.9F.1
140, § 173A       16-1.9
140, § 174D       16-1.9F.2
140, § 174E       16-1.10
140, § 177        18-1.2;
                   18-1.16
140, § 177A       18-1.1;
                   18-1.5
                   16-A1.1;
140, § 181        18-1.8;
                   18-1.18
140, § 183A       18-1.5
140, § 185H       18-1.4
140, § 185I       18-1.6
                   18-1.3;
140, § 186        18-1.6;
                   18-1.18
140, § 188        18-1.16
140, § 191        18-1.2
140, § 192        18-1.2
140, §§ 22—26  10-6.1
140, §§ 57—69  16-30.1;
                   16-60.1
140, §§ 136A—1710-2.9A
140, §§ 150—51 2-4.1
143, § 1          9-11.1
                   9-9.13;
143, § 3          16-52.1;
                   16-65.1
143, § 3A         16-65.1
143, § 3L         18-1.5
143, § 3S         9-1.4
143, § 35         10-6.9
147, § 22         9-11.1
147, §§ 22—30  17-17.1;
                   17-17.4
147, § 25         17-17.3
                   11-5.2;
148                11-5B.1;
                   14-2.1;
                   18-1.21
148, § 9          17-15.2;
                   18-1.6
                   11-5B.1;
                   18-1.2;
148, § 10A        18-1.6;
                   18-1.12;
                   18-1.14;
                   18-1.15
148, § 10B        17-15.8
148, § 13         18-1.1;
                   18-1.6
148, § 19         18-1.2
148, § 21O        18-1.7
148, § 23         18-1.6
148, § 26C        21-6
148, § 26F        18-1.19
148, § 26F½      18-1.19
148, § 27A        18-1.19
148, § 28B        18-1.3
148, § 40         18-1.6
148, § 56         18-1.16
149, § 24         16-12.2
149, §§ 26—27H 24-3.2
149, § 27H        24-7.6
149, §§ 44A—M  4-2.2
149, § 44C        4-1.2
149, § 69         16-A1.1
149, § 105D       5-5.20
149, § 185        16-63.6
150E               Charter 73
                   9-14.5;
151B               12-9.2;
                   12-9.3
151B, § 4(11A)    5-5.20
154                18-1.1
156, § 46A        18-1.1;
                   18-1.20
156, § 46F        18-1.1;
                   18-1.20
                   10-2.1;
156B               10-2.9—
                   10-2.11
156D, § 5.02      16-52.3
                   10-2.1;
157                10-2.9;
                   10-2.10;
                   10.2.11
                   10-2.1;
157B               10-2.9;
                   10-2.10;
                   10-2.11
159, § 98         18-1.3
159, § 99         18-1.3
159A, § 1         16-28.2;
                   18-1.10
159A½             17-21.1
164, § 1          13-1.2
164, § 11         13-1.3
164, § 70A        18-1.16
164, § 84A        18-1.16
164, § 124        11-4.8
164, § 145(b)     13-1.3
165, § 10         18-1.23
166, § 12A        18-1.16
166, § 22         18-1.16
166, § 28         18-1.16
166A               18-1.3
167, § 52         8-2.1;
                   8-2.2
168                16-41.1
169A               16-41.1
170                16-41.1
171                16-41.1
172                16-41.1
182                2-14.2
182, § 2          18-1.20
                   10-2.1;
183A               10-2.9—
                   10-2.11;
                   16-52.2
183A, § 1         18-11.2
183A, § 8(i)      18-11.2
186A               6-8.1;
                   6-8.7
190                18-11.8
203, § 41         18-1.1
207, § 28         16-A1.1
207, § 36         18-1.13
218, § 43A        16-32.3
223, § 51         18-1.1
227, § 5A         18-1.14
                   Charter 17I;
233, § 8          5-5.33;
                   10-2.2;
                   10-3.3
233, § 10         10-2.2
233, § 79F        18-1.16
239, § 8A         10-2.5
244, § 1          16-52.2
244, § 17B        16-52.2
249, § 4          7-1.4
255                18-1.1
255, § 3          18-1.16
255, § 15         18-1.22
255, § 39B        18-1.6
266, § 30A        16-12.8A
                   Charter 55;
                   2-15.4;
                   5-1.11.5;
                   5-5.39;
                   5-5.40;
                   5-10.1;
                   6-8.6;
                   7-1.1;
                   7-3.3;
                   7-9.1;
                   7-10.1;
                   8-2.1;
                   8-5.1;
268A               8-12.6;
                   8-14.2;
                   9-5.2;
                   9-10.1;
                   10-2.2;
                   10-3.2;
                   10-4.1;
                   10-7.2;
                   12-4.3;
                   12-9.9;
                   12-17.3;
                   15-9.2;
                   15-10.2;
                   20-5.3
268A, § 1         16-A1.1
                   16-63.4;
269, § 10(b)      19-1.1;
                   21-1.1
269, § 10(c)      19-1.1;
                   21-1.1
269, § 10(j)      16-63.4
269, § 12         16-39.4
270, § 6          16-40.2
270, § 7          16-40.2
270, § 16         23-22
271, § 7A         18-1.18
272, § 2          6-6.6
272, § 6          6-6.6
272, § 7          6-6.6
272, § 8          6-6.6
272, § 9          6-6.6
272, § 24         6-6.6
272, § 28         17-8.2
                   6-6.6;
272, § 53         16-26.6;
                   16-26.12
272, § 54         16-26.12
272, § 59         16-41.4;
                   16-66.9
272, § 77         11-10.2(f)
272, § 80I        16-1.9F.5
272, § 92A        17-17.2
272, § 104        16-1.9F.5
277, § 79         6-6.6
 
REFERENCES TO CBC 1975 AND CBC 1985
CBC 1975   CBC 1985 CBC 2024
Ord. T C S
CBC 1975       CBC 1985      CBC 2024
Ord. T C   S
T1     C1  1   1-1           1-1
           2   1-2.1         1-2.1
           3   1-2.2         1-2.2
           4   1-2.3         1-2.3
           5   1-2.4         1-2.4
           6   1-2.5         1-2.5
           7   1-2.6         1-2.6
           8   1-2.7         1-2.7
           9   1-2.8         1-2.8
           10  1-3           1-3
               1-3A          1-3A
               1-3A.1        1-3A.1
               1-3A.2        1-3A.2
               1-3A.3        1-3A.3
               1-3A.4        1-3A.4
           11  1-4           1-4
           12  1-5           1-5
               1-6           1-6
               1-7           1-7
               1-7.1         1-7.1
T2     C1      2-1           2-1
               2-1.1         2-1.1
               2-1.2         2-1.2
       C3      2-2           2-2
       C5  200 2-3.1         2-3.1
           201 2-3.2         2-3.2
               2-3.3         2-3.3
               2-3.4         2-3.4
           202 2-4.1         2-4.1
           203 2-4.2         2-4.2
           204 2-5.1         2-5.1
       C7  350 2-7.1         2-7.1
           351 2-7.2         2-7.2
           352 2-7.3         2-7.3
           353 2-7.4         2-7.4
           354 2-7.5         2-7.5
           355 2-7.6         2-7.6
           356 2-7.7         2-7.7
           357 2-7.8         2-7.8
           358 2-7.9         2-7.9
           359 2-7.10        2-7.10
           360 2-7.11        2-7.11
           361 2-7.12        2-7.12
           362 2-7.13        2-7.13
               2-7.14        2-7.14
               2-7.15        2-7.15
       C9  450 2-8.1         2-8.1
           451 2-8.2         2-8.2
           452 2-8.3         2-8.3
               2-9.1         2-9.1
               2-9.2         2-9.2
       C11 550 2-10.1        2-10.1
           551 2-10.2        2-10.2
           552 2-10.3        2-10.3
           553 2-10.4        2-10.4
           554 2-10.5        2-10.5
               2-10.6        2-10.6
               2-10.7        2-10.7
       C13     2-11          2-11
       C15 750 2-12.1        2-12.1
           751 2-12.2        2-12.2
           752 2-12.3        2-12.3
           753 2-12.4        2-12.4
               2-12.5        2-12.5
               2-13.1        2-13.1
               2-13.2        2-13.2
               2-13.3        2-13.3
               2-14.1        2-14.1
               2-14.2        2-14.2
               2-14.3        2-14.3
               2-14.4        2-14.4
               2-15.1        2-15.1
               2-15.2        2-15.2
               2-15.3        2-15.3
               2-15.4        2-15.4
               2-15.5        2-15.5
T3     C1      Chapter III   Chapter III
T4     C1      Chapter IV    Chapter IV
               4-1.1         4-1.1
               4-1.2         4-1.2
               4-1.3         4-1.3
               4-1.4         4-1.4
               4-2.1         4-2.1
               4-2.2         4-2.2
               4-2.3         4-2.3
               4-2.4         4-2.4
               4-3.1         4-3.1
               4-3.2         4-3.2
               4-3.3         4-3.3
               4-3.4         4-3.4
               4-3.5         4-3.5
               4-4.1         4-4.1
               4-4.2         4-4.2
               4-4.31        4-4.31
               4-4.32        4-4.32
               4-4.33        4-4.33
               4-4.4         4-4.4
               4-4.5         4-4.5
               4-4.6         4-4.6
               4-4.7         4-4.7
               4-4.8         4-4.8
               4-4.9         4-4.9
               4-4.10        4-4.10
               4-5.1         4-5.1
               4-5.2         4-5.2
               4-6.1         4-6.1
               4-6.2         4-6.2
               4-6.3         4-6.3
               4-6.4         4-6.4
               4-7.1         4-7.1
               4-7.2         4-7.2
               4-7.3         4-7.3
               4-7.4         4-7.4
               4-7.5         4-7.5
               4-7.6         4-7.6
               4-7.7         4-7.7
               4-7.8         4-7.8
               4-7.9         4-7.9
               4-8.1         4-8.1
               4-8.2         4-8.2
               4-8.3         4-8.3
               4-8.4         4-8.4
               4-8.5         4-8.5
               4-8.6         4-8.6
               4-8.7         4-8.7
               4-8.8         4-8.8
               4-8.9         4-8.9
               4-8.10        4-8.10
               4-9.1         4-9.1
               4-9.2         4-9.2
               4-9.3         4-9.3
               4-9.4         4-9.4
               4-9.5         4-9.5
               4-9.6         4-9.6
T5     C1  1   5-1.1         5-1.1
           2   5-1.2         5-1.2
           3   5-1.3         5-1.3
           4   5-1.4         5-1.4
           5   5-1.5         5-1.5
           6   5-1.6         5-1.6
           7   5-1.8         5-1.8
           8   5-1.9         5-1.9
           9   5-1.10        5-1.10
           10  5-2.1         5-2.1
           11  5-3.1         5-3.1
               5-4.1         5-4.1
               5-4.2         5-4.2
               5-4.3         5-4.3
               5-4.4         5-4.4
               5-4.5         5-4.5
       C3  100 5-5.1         5-5.1
           101 5-5.2         5-5.2
               5-5.3         5-5.3
               5-5.4         5-5.4
               5-5.5         5-5.5
           102 5-5.6         5-5.6
               5-5.7         5-5.7
           103 5-5.8         5-5.8
           104 5-5.9         5-5.9
           105 5-5.10        5-5.10
               5-5.10A       5-5.10A
               5-5.11        5-5.11
           106 5-5.12        5-5.12
           107 5-5.13        5-5.13
           108 5-5.14        5-5.14
           109 5-5.15        5-5.15
           110 5-5.16        5-5.16
           111 5-5.17        5-5.17
           112 5-5.18        5-5.18
               5-5.19        5-5.19
               5-5.20        5-5.20
           113 5-5.21        5-5.21
           114 5-5.22        5-5.22
           115 5-5.23        5-5.23
           116 5-5.24        5-5.24
           117 5-5.25        5-5.25
           118 5-5.26        5-5.26
           119 5-5.27        5-5.27
           120 5-5.28        5-5.28
           121 5-5.29        5-5.29
           122 5-5.30        5-5.30
           123 5-5.31        5-5.31
           124 5-5.32        5-5.32
           125 5-5.33        5-5.33
           126 5-5.34        5-5.34
           127 5-5.35        5-5.35
           128 5-5.36        5-5.36
               5-5.37        5-5.37
               5-5.38        5-5.38
               5-5.39        5-5.39
               5-5.40        5-5.40
               5-5.41        5-5.41
               5-5.42        5-5.42
               5-6           5-6
               5-6.1         5-6.1
               5-6.2         5-6.2
               5-6.3         5-6.3
               5-6.4         5-6.4
               5-6.5         5-6.5
               5-6.6         5-6.6
               5-6.7         5-6.7
               5-6.8         5-6.8
               5-6.9         5-6.9
       C7  400 5-7.1         5-7.1
       C9  450 5-8.1         5-8.1
           451 5-8.2         5-8.2
               5-10.1        5-10.1
               5-10.2        5-10.2
T6     C1  1   6-1.1         6-1.1
           2   6-1.2         6-1.2
           3   6-1.3         6-1.3
           4   6-1.4         6-1.4
           5   6-1.5         6-1.5
           6   6-1.6         6-1.6
           7   6-1.7         6-1.7
           8   6-1.8         6-1.8
           9   6-1.9         6-1.9
           10  6-1.10        6-1.10
               6-1.11        6-1.11
               6-1.12        6-1.12
       C3  100 6-2.1         6-2.1
           101 6-2.2         6-2.2
           102 6-2.3         6-2.3
           103 6-2.4         6-2.4
           104 6-2.5         6-2.5
           150 6-3.1         6-3.1
           151 6-3.2         6-3.2
           152 6-3.3         6-3.3
           153 6-3.4         6-3.4
           154 6-3.5         6-3.5
           155 6-3.6         6-3.6
               6-3.7         6-3.7
               6-3.7.2       6-3.7.2
       C5  156 6-3.8         6-3.8
           157 6-3.9         6-3.9
           158 6-3.10        6-3.10
           159 6-3.11        6-3.11
           160 6-3.12        6-3.12
               6-3.13        6-3.13
               6-3.13(a)     6-3.13(a)
               6-3.13(b)     6-3.13(b)
               6-3.13(c)     6-3.13(c)
               6-3.13(d)     6-3.13(d)
               6-3.13(e)     6-3.13(e)
               6-3.13(f)     6-3.13(f)
               6-3.13(g)     6-3.13(g)
           161 Not in code   Not in code
       C7      6-4           6-4
       C9      6-5           6-5
               6-6.1         6-6.1
               6-6.2         6-6.2
               6-6.3         6-6.3
               6-6.4         6-6.4
               6-6.5         6-6.5
               6-6.6         6-6.6
               6-6.7         6-6.7
               6-6.8         6-6.8
               6-6.9         6-6.9
               6-6.10        6-6.10
               6-7.1         6-7.1
               6-7.2         6-7.2
               6-7.3         6-7.3
               6-7.4         6-7.4
               6-8.1         6-8.1
               6-8.2         6-8.2
               6-8.2A        6-8.2A
               6-8.3         6-8.3
               6-8.4         6-8.4
               6-8.5         6-8.5
               6-8.6         6-8.6
               6-8.7         6-8.7
               6-8.8         6-8.8
               6-8.9         6-8.9
               6-8.10        6-8.10
               6-9.1         6-9.1
               6-9.2         6-9.2
               6-9.3         6-9.3
               6-9.4         6-9.4
               6-9.5         6-9.5
               6-10.1        6-10.1
               6-11          6-11
T7     C1  1   7-1.1         7-1.1
           2   7-1.2         7-1.2
           3   7-1.3         7-1.3
               7-1.4         7-1.4
       C3  50  7-2.1         7-2.1
               7-2.2         7-2.2
               7-2.3         7-2.3
               7-3.1         7-3.1
               7-3.2         7-3.2
               7-3.3         7-3.3
               7-3.4         7-3.4
               7-3.5         7-3.5
               7-3.6         7-3.6
               7-3.7         7-3.7
               7-3.8         7-3.8
               7-3.9         7-3.9
               7-3.10        7-3.10
               7-3.11        7-3.11
       C5  100 7-4.1         7-4.1
           101 7-4.2         7-4.2
               7-4.2A        7-4.2A
           102 7-4.3         7-4.3
           103 7-4.4         7-4.4
           104 7-4.5         7-4.5
           105 7-4.6         7-4.6
           106 7-4.7         7-4.7
           107 7-4.8         7-4.8
           108 7-4.9         7-4.9
           109 7-4.10        7-4.10
           110 7-4.11        7-4.11
           111 7-4.12        7-4.12
           112 7-4.13        7-4.13
               7-4.14        7-4.14
               7-4.15        7-4.15
           113 7-5.1         7-5.1
               7-5.2         7-5.2
           114 7-5.3         7-5.3
           115 7-5.4         7-5.4
       C7      7-6           7-6
       C9  200 7-7.1         7-7.1
           201 7-7.2         7-7.2
           202 7-7.3         7-7.3
               7-8.1         7-8.1
               7-8.2         7-8.2
               7-8.3         7-8.3 
               7-8.4         7-8.4
               7-8.5         7-8.5
               7-8.6         7-8.6
               7-8.7         7-8.7
               7-8.8         7-8.8
       C11 300 7-9.1         7-9.1
           301 7-9.2         7-9.2
           302 7-9.3         7-9.3
               7-10.1        7-10.1
               7-10.2        7-10.2
               7-10.3        7-10.3
               7-10.4        7-10.4
               7-10.5        7-10.5
               7-10.6        7-10.6
               7-10.7        7-10.7
               7-11          7-11
               7-12          7-12
               7-13.1        7-13.1
               7-13.2        7-13.2
               7-13.3        7-13.3
               7-13.4        7-13.4
               7-13.5        7-13.5
               7-13.6        7-13.6
               7-13.7        7-13.7
               7-13.8        7-13.8
               7-13.8.1      7-13.8.1
               7-13.8.2      7-13.8.2
               7-13.8.3      7-13.8.3
               7-13.8.4      7-13.8.4
               7-13.8.5      7-13.8.5
               7-13.8.6      7-13.8.6
               7-13.8.7      7-13.8.7
               7-13.8.8      7-13.8.8
               7-13.8.9      7-13.8.9
               7-13.8.10     7-13.8.10
               7-13.9        7-13.9
               7-13.10       7-13.10
               7-13.11       7-13.11
               7-13A         7-13A
               7-13A.1       7-13A.1
               7-13A.2       7-13A.2
               7-13A.3       7-13A.3
               7-13A.4       7-13A.4
               7-13A.5       7-13A.5
               7-13A.6       7-13A.6
               7-13A.7       7-13A.7
               7-13A.8       7-13A.8
               7-13A.9       7-13A.9
               7-14.1        7-14.1
               7-14.2        7-14.2
               7-14.3        7-14.3
               7-14.4        7-14.4
               7-15.1        7-15.1
               7-15.2        7-15.2
               7-15.3        7-15.3
T8     C1  1   8-1.1         8-1.1
           2   8-1.2         8-1.2
           3   8-1.3         8-1.3
           4   8-1.4         8-1.4
           5   Not in code   Not in code
           6   8-2.1         8-2.1
           7   8-2.2         8-2.2
           8   8-2.3         8-2.3
           9   8-2.4         8-2.4
           10  8-2.5         8-2.5
           11  8-2.6         8-2.6
           12  8-2.7         8-2.7
               8-2.8         8-2.8
       C3      8-3           8-3
       C5      8-4           8-4
       C7  300 8-5.1         8-5.1
           301 8-5.2         8-5.2
           302 8-5.3         8-5.3
       C9      8-6           8-6
               8-7.1         8-7.1
       C11 500 8-7.2         8-7.2
               8-8.1         8-8.1
               8-8.2         8-8.2
               8-8.3         8-8.3
               8-8.4         8-8.4
               8-9.1         8-9.1
               8-9.2         8-9.2
               8-9.3         8-9.3
               8-9.4         8-9.4
               8-9.5         8-9.5
               8-9.6         8-9.6
               8-9.7         8-9.7
               8-9.8         8-9.8
               8-9.9         8-9.9
               8-9.10        8-9.10
               8-9.11        8-9.11
               8-10.1        8-10.1
               8-10.2        8-10.2
               8-10.3        8-10.3
               8-10.4        8-10.4
               8-11.1        8-11.1
               8-12.1        8-12.1
               8-12.2        8-12.2
               8-12.3        8-12.3
               8-12.4        8-12.4
               8-12.5        8-12.5
               8-12.6        8-12.6
               8-12.7        8-12.7
               8-12.8        8-12.8
               8-13.1        8-13.1
               8-13.2        8-13.2
               8-13.3        8-13.3
               8-13.4        8-13.4
               8-13.5        8-13.5
               8-13.6        8-13.6
               8-13.7        8-13.7
               8-13.8        8-13.8
               8-13.9        8-13.9
               8-13.10       8-13.10
               8-13.11       8-13.11
               8-13.12       8-13.12
               8-13.13       8-13.13
               8-13.14       8-13.14
               8-13.15       8-13.15
               8-13.16       8-13.16
               8-13.17       8-13.17
       C13 600 Not in code   Not in code
           601 Not in code   Not in code
T9     C1  1   9-1.1         9-1.1
           2   9-1.2         9-1.2
               9-1.3         9-1.3
               9-1.4         9-1.4
           10  9-2.1         9-2.1
       C3  50  9-3.1         9-3.1
           51  9-3.2         9-3.2
           52  9-3.3         9-3.3
           53  9-3.4         9-3.4
       C5  150 9-4.1         9-4.1
           151 9-4.2         9-4.2
       C7  200 9-5.1         9-5.1
               9-5.2         9-5.2
       C9      9-6           9-6
       C11     9-7           9-7
       C13 350 9-8.1         9-8.1
           351 9-8.2         9-8.2
               9-9.1         9-9.1
               9-9.4         9-9.4
               9-9.5         9-9.5
               9-9.6         9-9.6
               9-9.7         9-9.7
               9-9.8         9-9.8
               9-9.9         9-9.9
               9-9.10        9-9.10
               9-9.11        9-9.11
               9-9.12        9-9.12
               9-9.13        9-9.13
               9-9.14        9-9.14
               9-9.15        9-9.15
               9-10.1        9-10.1
               9-10.2        9-10.2
               9-10.3        9-10.3
               9-10.4        9-10.4
               9-10.5        9-10.5
               9-11.1        9-11.1
               9-11.2        9-11.2
               9-11.3        9-11.3
               9-11.4        9-11.4
               9-11.5        9-11.5
               9-11.6        9-11.6
               9-11.7        9-11.7
               9-11.8        9-11.8
               9-12.1        9-12.1
               9-12.2        9-12.2
               9-12.3        9-12.3
               9-12.4        9-12.4
               9-12.5        9-12.5
               9-12.6        9-12.6
               9-12.7        9-12.7
               9-13.1        9-13.1
               9-14.1        9-14.1
               9-14.2        9-14.2
               9-14.4A       9-14.4A
               9-14.4B       9-14.4B
               9-14.5        9-14.5
               9-14.6        9-14.6
               9-14.7        9-14.7
               9-14.8        9-14.8
               9-14.9        9-14.9
               9-14.10       9-14.10
               9-14.11       9-14.11
               9-14.12       9-14.12
T10    C1      10-1          10-1
       C3  100 Not in code   Not in code
           101 10-2.1        10-2.1
           102 10-2.2        10-2.2
               10-2.3        10-2.3
           103 10-2.4        10-2.4
           104 10-2.3        10-2.3
           105 10-2.5        10-2.5
           106 10-2.7        10-2.7
           107 10-2.8        10-2.8
           108 10-2.9        10-2.9
               10-2.9A       10-2.9A
               10-2.10       10-2.10
               10-2.11       10-2.11
               10-2.12       10-2.12
               10-2.13       10-2.13
               10-2.13A      10-2.13A
               10-2.13B      10-2.13B
               10-2.14       10-2.14
               10-2.15       10-2.15
           109 10-2.16       10-2.16
           110 10-2.17       10-2.17
           111 10-2.19       10-2.19
           112 10-2.20       10-2.20
           113 10-2.21       10-2.21
           114 10-2.22       10-2.22
               10-2.23       10-2.23
               10-3.1        10-3.1
               10-3.2        10-3.2
               10-3.3        10-3.3
               10-3.4        10-3.4
               10-3.5        10-3.5
               10-3.6        10-3.6
               10-4.1        10-4.1
               10-4.2        10-4.2
               10-4.3        10-4.3
               10-5.1        10-5.1
               10-5.2        10-5.2
               10-5.3        10-5.3
               10-5.4        10-5.4
               10-5.5        10-5.5
               10-5.6        10-5.6
               10-6.1        10-6.1
               10-6.2        10-6.2
               10-6.3        10-6.3
               10-6.4        10-6.4
               10-6.5        10-6.5
               10-6.6        10-6.6
               10-6.7        10-6.7
               10-6.8        10-6.8
               10-6.9        10-6.9
               10-6.10       10-6.10
               10-6.11       10-6.11
               10-6.12       10-6.12
               10-7.1        10-7.1
               10-7.2        10-7.2
               10-7.3        10-7.3
               10-8          10-8
               10-9          10-9
               10-10         10-10
               10-11.1       10-11.1
               10-11.2       10-11.2
               10-11.3       10-11.3
               10-11.4       10-11.4
               10-11.5       10-11.5
               10-11.6       10-11.6
               10-11.7       10-11.7
T11    C1  1   11-1.1        11-1.1
           2   11-1.2        11-1.2
           3   11-1.3        11-1.3
           4   11-1.4        11-1.4
           5   11-1.5        11-1.5
           6   Not in code   Not in code
               11-1.6        11-1.6
               11-1.7        11-1.7
               11-1.8        11-1.8
               11-1.9        11-1.9
               11-1.10       11-1.10
               11-2.1        11-2.1
               11-2.2        11-2.2
               11-2.3        11-2.3
               11-2.4        11-2.4
               11-2.5        11-2.5
               11-2.6        11-2.6
               11-2.7        11-2.7
               11-2.8        11-2.8
               11-2.9        11-2.9
               11-2.10       11-2.10
               11-2.11       11-2.11
               11-2.12       11-2.12
               11-3.1        11-3.1
               11-3.2        11-3.2
               11-3.3        11-3.3
               11-3.4        11-3.4
               11-3.5        11-3.5
               11-3.6        11-3.6
               11-3.7        11-3.7
               11-3.8        11-3.8
       C3  75  11-4.1        11-4.1
           76  11-4.2        11-4.2
           77  11-4.3        11-4.3
           78  11-4.4        11-4.4
           79  11-4.5        11-4.5
           80  11-4.6        11-4.6
           81  11-4.7        11-4.7
               11-4.8        11-4.8
               11-5.1        11-5.1
               11-5.2        11-5.2
               11-5A         11-5A
               11-5A.1       11-5A.1
               11-5A.2       11-5A.2
               11-5A.3       11-5A.3
               11-5A.4       11-5A.4
               11-5A.5       11-5A.5
               11-5A.5A      11-5A.5A
               11-5A.6       11-5A.6
               11-5A.7       11-5A.7
               11-5A.8       11-5A.8
               11-5A.9       11-5A.9
               11-5A.10      11-5A.10
               11-5A.11      11-5A.11
               11-5B         11-5B
               11-5B.1       11-5B.1
               11-5B.2       11-5B.2
               11-5B.3       11-5B.3
               11-5C         11-5C
               11-5C.1       11-5C.1
               11-5C.2       11-5C.2
               11-5C.3       11-5C.3
               11-5C.4       11-5C.4
               11-5C.5       11-5C.5
               11-5C.6       11-5C.6
               11-5C.7       11-5C.7
               11-5C.8       11-5C.8
               11-5C.9       11-5C.9
               11-5C.10      11-5C.10
               11-5C.11      11-5C.11
               11-5C.12      11-5C.12
               11-5C.13      11-5C.13
       C5  150 11-6.1        11-6.1
           151 11-6.2        11-6.2
           152 11-6.3        11-6.3
           153 11-6.4        11-6.4
           154 11-6.5        11-6.5
           155 11-6.6        11-6.6
           156 11-6.7        11-6.7
           157 11-6.8        11-6.8
           158 11-6.9        11-6.9
           159 11-6.10       11-6.10
           160 11-6.11       11-6.11
           161 11-6.12       11-6.12
           162 11-6.13       11-6.13
           163 11-6.14       11-6.14
           164 11-6.15       11-6.15
           165 11-6.16       11-6.16
           166 11-6.17       11-6.17
           167 11-6.18       11-6.18
               11-6.19       11-6.19
               11-6.20       11-6.20
               11-6.21       11-6.21
               11-6.22       11-6.22
               11-6.23       11-6.23
               11-6.24       11-6.24
               11-6.25       11-6.25
           168 11-6.26       11-6.26
           169 11-6.27       11-6.27
           170 11-6.28       11-6.28
           171 11-6.29       11-6.29
           172 11-6.30       11-6.30
           173 11-6.31       11-6.31
           174 11-6.32       11-6.32
           175 11-6.33       11-6.33
           176 11-6.34       11-6.34
           177 11-6.35       11-6.35
           178 11-6.36       11-6.36
           179 11-6.37       11-6.37
           180 11-6.38       11-6.38
           181 11-6.39       11-6.39
           182 11-6.40       11-6.40
           183 11-6.41       11-6.41
           184 11-6.42       11-6.42
           185 11-6.43       11-6.43
           186 11-6.44       11-6.44
           250 11-7.1        11-7.1
           251 11-7.2        11-7.2
           252 11-7.3        11-7.3
           253 11-7.4        11-7.4
           254 11-7.5        11-7.5
           255 11-7.6        11-7.6
           256 11-7.7        11-7.7
           257 11-7.8        11-7.8
           258 11-7.9        11-7.9
           259 11-7.10       11-7.10
               11-7.11       11-7.11
               11-7.12       11-7.12
               11-7.13       11-7.13
               11-7.14       11-7.14
       C9  350 11-8.1        11-8.1
           351 11-8.2        11-8.2
       C11 400 11-9.1        11-9.1
           401 11-9.2        11-9.2
           402 11-9.3        11-9.3
           403 11-9.4        11-9.4
           404 11-9.5        11-9.5
           405 11-9.6        11-9.6
               11-10.1       11-10.1
               11-10.2       11-10.2
               11-10.2(a)    11-10.2(a)
               11-10.2(b)    11-10.2(b)
               11-10.2(c)    11-10.2(c)
               11-10.2(d)    11-10.2(d)
               11-10.2(e)    11-10.2(e)
               11-10.2(f)    11-10.2(f)
               11-10.2(g)    11-10.2(g)
               11-10.2(h)    11-10.2(h)
               11-10.2(i)    11-10.2(i)
               11-10.2(j)    11-10.2(j)
               11-10.2(k)    11-10.2(k)
               11-10.2(l)    11-10.2(l)
               11-10.2(n)    11-10.2(n)
               11-10.2(o)    11-10.2(o)
               11-10.2(p)    11-10.2(p)
               11-10.2(q)    11-10.2(q)
               11-11.1       11-11.1
               11-11.2       11-11.2
T12    C1  1   12-1.1        12-1.1
           2   12-1.2        12-1.2
       C3  50  12-2.1        12-2.1
           51  12-2.2        12-2.2
           52  12-2.3        12-2.3
       C5  100 12-3.1        12-3.1
           101 12-3.2        12-3.2
           102 12-3.3        12-3.3
               12-3.4        12-3.4
               12-3.5        12-3.5
       C7  150 12-4.1        12-4.1
           151 12-4.2        12-4.2
               12-4.3        12-4.3
               12-4.4        12-4.4
               12-4.5        12-4.5
               12-4.6        12-4.6
               12-4.7        12-4.7
               12-4.8        12-4.8
               12-4.9        12-4.9
               12-4.10       12-4.10
       C9  200 12-5.1        12-5.1
           201 12-5.2        12-5.2
       C11     12-6          12-6
               12-6.1        12-6.1
       C13 300 12-7.1        12-7.1
           301 12-7.2        12-7.2
       C15 350 12-8.1        12-8.1
           351 12-8.2        12-8.2
           352 12-8.3        12-8.3
           353 12-8.4        12-8.4
               12-9.1        12-9.1
               12-9.2        12-9.2
               12-9.3        12-9.3
               12-9.4        12-9.4
               12-9.5        12-9.5
               12-9.6        12-9.6
               12-9.7        12-9.7
               12-9.8        12-9.8
               12-9.9        12-9.9
               12-9.10       12-9.10
               12-9.11       12-9.11
               12-9.12       12-9.12
               12-9.13       12-9.13
               12-9.14       12-9.14
               12-9.15       12-9.15
               12-9A         12-9A
               12-9A.1       12-9A.1
               12-9A.2       12-9A.2
               12-9A.3       12-9A.3
               12-9A.4       12-9A.4
               12-9A.5       12-9A.5
               12-9A.6       12-9A.6
               12-9A.7       12-9A.7
               12-9A.8       12-9A.8
               12-9A.9       12-9A.9
               12-10         12-10
               12-11.1       12-11.1
               12-11.2       12-11.2
               12-12.1       12-12.1
               12-12.2       12-12.2
               12-12.3       12-12.3
               12-12.4       12-12.4
               12-12.5       12-12.5
               12-12.6       12-12.6
               12-13.1       12-13.1
               12-13.2       12-13.2
               12-13.3       12-13.3
               12-14.1       12-14.1
               12-14.2       12-14.2
               12-14.3       12-14.3
               12-14.4       12-14.4
               12-14.5       12-14.5
               12-14.6       12-14.6
               12-14.7       12-14.7
               12-15.1       12-15.1
               12-15.2       12-15.2
               12-15.3       12-15.3
               12-15.4       12-15.4
               12-16.1       12-16.1
               12-16.2       12-16.2
               12-16.3       12-16.3
               12-16.4       12-16.4
               12-16.5       12-16.5
               12-16.6       12-16.6
               12-17.1       12-17.1
               12-17.2       12-17.2
               12-17.3       12-17.3
               12-17.4       12-17.4
               12-17.5       12-17.5
               12-17.6       12-17.6
               12-17.7       12-17.7
               12-17.8       12-17.8
               12-17.9       12-17.9
               12-17.10      12-17.10
               12-17.11      12-17.11
               12-17.12      12-17.12
               12-17.13      12-17.13
               12-17.14      12-17.14
               12-17.15      12-17.15
               12-17.16      12-17.16
               12-17.17      12-17.17
               12-17.18      12-17.18
               12-17.19      12-17.19
               12-17.20      12-17.20
               12-18.1       12-18.1
               12-18.2       12-18.2
               12-18.3       12-18.3
T13    C1  1   13-1.1        13-1.1
               13-1.2        13-1.2
               13-1.3        13-1.3
               13-1.4        13-1.4
               13-1.5        13-1.5
T14    C1      14-1          14-1
       C3  50  14-2.1        14-2.1
       C5      14-3          14-3
       C7      14-4          14-4
       C9  200 14-6.1        14-6.1
           201 14-6.2        14-6.2
               15-1          15-1
               15-2.1        15-2.1
               15-2.2        15-2.2
               15-3.1        15-3.1
               15-3.2        15-3.2
               15-4.1        15-4.1
               15-4.2        15-4.2
               15-5.1        15-5.1
               15-5.2        15-5.2
               15-6.1        15-6.1
               15-6.2        15-6.2
               15-7.1        15-7.1
               15-7.2        15-7.2
               15-8.1        15-8.1
               15-8.2        15-8.2
               15-9.1        15-9.1
               15-9.2        15-9.2
               15-9.3        15-9.3
               15-9.4        15-9.4
               15-9.5        15-9.5
               15-10.1       15-10.1
               15-10.2       15-10.2
               15-10.3       15-10.3
               15-10.4       15-10.4
               15-10.5       15-10.5
               15-10.6       15-10.6
               15-11.1       15-11.1
               15-11.2       15-11.2
               15-11.3       15-11.3
               15-12.1       15-12.1
               15-12.2       15-12.2
               15-12.3       15-12.3
               15-12.4       15-12.4
               15-13.1       15-13.1
               15-13.2       15-13.2
               15-13.3       15-13.3
               16-A1.1       16-A1.1
               16-A1.2       16-A1.2
       C11 250 16-1.1        16-1.1
           251 16-1.2        16-1.2
           252 16-1.3        16-1.3
               16-1.4        16-1.4
               16-1.4A       16-1.4A
               16-1.5        16-1.5
               16-1.6        16-1.6
               16-1.7        16-1.7
           253 16-1.8        16-1.8
           254 16-1.9        16-1.9
               16-1.9A       16-1.9A
               16-1.9B       16-1.9B
               16-1.9B.1     16-1.9B.1
               16-1.9B.2     16-1.9B.2
               16-1.9C       16-1.9C
               16-1.9D       16-1.9D
               16-1.9E       16-1.9E
               16-1.9F       16-1.9F
               16-1.9F.1     16-1.9F.1
               16-1.9F.2     16-1.9F.2
               16-1.9F.3     16-1.9F.3
               16-1.9F.4     16-1.9F.4
               16-1.9F.5     16-1.9F.5
               16-1.9F.6     16-1.9F.6
               16-1.9F.7     16-1.9F.7
               16-1.9G       16-1.9G
               16-1.9G.1     16-1.9G.1
               16-1.9G.2     16-1.9G.2
               16-1.9G.3     16-1.9G.3
               16-1.9G.4     16-1.9G.4
               16-1.9G.5     16-1.9G.5
               16-1.9G.6     16-1.9G.6
               16-1.10       16-1.10
               16-1.10A      16-1.10A
           255 16-1.11       16-1.11
           256 16-1.12       16-1.12
           257 16-1.13       16-1.13
           258 16-1.14       16-1.14
           259 16-1.15       16-1.15
           260 16-1.16       16-1.16
           261 16-1.17       16-1.17
           262 16-1.18       16-1.18
           263 16-1.19       16-1.19
               16-1.19A      16-1.19A
           264 16-1.20       16-1.20
               16-1.20A      16-1.20A
               16-1.21       16-1.21
           265 16-1.22       16-1.22
           266 16-1.23       16-1.23
           267 16-1.24       16-1.24
           268 16-1.25       16-1.25
               16-1.26       16-1.26
           269 16-2.1        16-2.1
           270 16-2.2        16-2.2
           271 16-2.4        16-2.4
               16-2.5        16-2.5
               16-2.6        16-2.6
               16-2.7        16-2.7
           272 16-3.1        16-3
           273 16-4.1        16-4.1
               16-4A         16-4A
           274 16-5.1        16-5.1
               16-5A.1       16-5A.1
               16-5A.2       16-5A.2
               16-5A.3       16-5A.3
               16-5A.4       16-5A.4
               16-5A.5       16-5A.5
               16-5A.6       16-5A.6
               16-5B.1       16-5B.1
               16-5B.2       16-5B.2
               16-5B.3       16-5B.3
               16-5B.4       16-5B.4
           275 16-6.1        16-6.1
           276 16-7.1        16-7.1
           277 16-8.1        16-8.1
               16-8.2        16-8.2
               16-8.3        16-8.3
               16-8.4        16-8.4
               16-8.5        16-8.5
           278 16-9.1        16-9.1
           279 16-10.1       16-10.1
           280 16-10.2       16-10.2
           281 16-10.3       16-10.3
           282 16-10.4       16-10.4
           283 16-10.5       16-10.5
           284 16-11.1       16-11.1
           285 16-12.1       16-12.1
           286 16-12.2       16-12.2
               16-12.2A      16-12.2A
           287 16-12.3       16-12.3
           288 16-12.4       16-12.4
           289 16-12.5       16-12.5
           290 16-12.6       16-12.6
           291 16-12.7       16-12.7
           292 16-12.8       16-12.8
               16-12.8A      16-12.8A
               16-12.8A.1    16-12.8A.1
               16-12.8A.2    16-12.8A.2
               16-12.8A.3    16-12.8A.3
               16-12.8A.4    16-12.8A.4
               16-12.8A.5    16-12.8A.5
               16-12.8A.6    16-12.8A.6
               16-12.8A.7    16-12.8A.7
               16-12.8A.8    16-12.8A.8
               16-12.8A.9    16-12.8A.9
               16-12.8A.10   16-12.8A.10
               16-12.8A.11   16-12.8A.11
               16-12.8A.12   16-12.8A.12
           293 16-12.9       16-12.9
           294 16-12.10      16-12.10
           295 16-12.11      16-12.11
           296 16-12.12      16-12.12
           297 16-12.13      16-12.13
           298 16-12.14      16-12.14
           299 16-12.15      16-12.15
           300 16-12.16      16-12.16
           301 16-12.17      16-12.17
           302 16-12.18      16-12.18
           303 16-12.19      16-12.19
           304 16-12.20      16-12.20
           305 16-12.21      16-12.21
           306 16-12.22      16-12.22
           307 16-12.23      16-12.23
           308 16-12.24      16-12.24
           309 16-12.25      16-12.25
           310 16-12.26      16-12.26
           311 16-12.27      16-12.27
           312 16-12.28      16-12.28
               16-12.29      16-12.29
               16-12.30      16-12.30
               16-12.30A     16-12.30A
               16-12.31      16-12.31
               16-12.31A     16-12.31A
           313 16-12.32      16-12.32
           314 16-12.33      16-12.33
           315 16-12.34      16-12.34
           316 16-12.35      16-12.35
           317 16-12.36      16-12.36
               16-12.37      16-12.37
               16-12.38      16-12.38
               16-12.38A     16-12.38A
               16-12.38A.1   16-12.38A.1
               16-12.38A.2   16-12.38A.2
               16-12.38A.3   16-12.38A.3
               16-12.38A.4   16-12.38A.4
               16-12.38A.5   16-12.38A.5
               16-12.38A.6   16-12.38A.6
               16-12.38A.7   16-12.38A.7
               16-12.38A.8   16-12.38A.8
               16-12.38A.9   16-12.38A.9
               16-12.38A.10  16-12.38A.10
               16-12.39      16-12.39
               16-12.40      16-12.40
               16-12.41      16-12.41
               16-12.42      16-12.42
               16-12.43      16-12.43
           318 16-13.1       16-13.1
               16-13.2       16-13.2
           319 16-14.1       16-14.1
           320 16-15.1       16-15.1
           321 16-15.2       16-15.2
           322 16-15.3       16-15.3
           323 16-15.4       16-15.4
           324 16-15.5       16-15.5
               16-15.6       16-15.6
           325 16-16.1       16-16.1
           326 16-16.2       16-16.2
           327 16-16.3       16-16.3
           328 16-16.4       16-16.4
           329 16-16.5       16-16.5
           330 16-16.6       16-16.6
           331 16-16.7       16-16.7
           332 16-16.8       16-16.8
           333 16-16.9       16-16.9
           334 16-16.10      16-16.10
           335 16-16.11      16-16.11
           336 16-16.12      16-16.12
           337 16-17.1       16-17.1
           338 16-17.2       16-17.2
           339 16-18.1       16-18.1
           340 16-19.1       16-19.1
           341 16-19.2       16-19.2
               16-19.3       16-19.3
           342 16-19.4       16-19.4
           343 16-20.1       16-20.1
           344 16-21.1       16-21.1
           345 16-21.2       16-21.2
           346 16-21.3       16-21.3
           347 16-22.1       16-22.1
           348 16-23.1       16-23.1
           349 16-23.2       16-23.2
           350 16-23.3       16-23.3
           351 16-23.4       16-23.4
           352 16-24.1       16-24.1
           353 16-25.1       16-25.1
           354 16-26.1       16-26.1
               16-26.2       16-26.2
               16-26.3       16-26.3
               16-26.4       16-26.4
               16-26.5       16-26.5
               16-26.6       16-26.6
               16-26.7       16-26.7
               16-26.8       16-26.8
               16-26.9       16-26.9
               16-26.10      16-26.10
               16-26.11      16-26.11
               16-26.12      16-26.12
               16-26.13      16-26.13
               16-26.14      16-26.14
               16-27.1       16-27.1
               16-27.2       16-27.2
               16-27.3       16-27.3
               16-27.4       16-27.4
               16-27.5       16-27.5
               16-27.6       16-27.6
               16-27.7       16-27.7
           356 16-28.1       16-28.1
           357 16-28.2       16-28.2
           358 16-28.3       16-28.3
           359 16-28.4       16-28.4
           360 16-28.5       16-28.5
           361 16-28.6       16-28.6
           362 16-28.7       16-28.7
           363 16-28.8       16-28.8
           364 16-28.9       16-28.9
           365 16-28.10      16-28.10
           366 16-29.1       16-29.1
           367 16-30.1       16-30.1
               16-31         16-31
           368 16-32.1       16-32.1
               16-32.2       16-32.2
           369 16-32.3       16-32.3
               16-32.4       16-32.4
               16-32.5       16-32.5
               16-32.6       16-32.6
               16-32.7       16-32.7
               16-33.1       16-33.1
               16-33.2       16-33.2
               16-33.3       16-33.3
               16-33.4       16-33.4
               16-33.5       16-33.5
               16-33.6       16-33.6
               16-33.7       16-33.7
               16-34.1       16-34.1
               16-34.2       16-34.2
               16-34.3       16-34.3
               16-34.4       16-34.4
               16-34.5       16-34.5
               16-35.1       16-35.1
               16-35.2       16-35.2
               16-35.3       16-35.3
               16-35.4       16-35.4
               16-35.5       16-35.5
               16-35.6       16-35.6
               16-35.7       16-35.7
               16-36.1       16-36.1
               16-36.2       16-36.2
               16-36.3       16-36.3
               16-36.4       16-36.4
               16-37.1       16-37.1
               16-37.2       16-37.2
               16-38.1       16-38.1
               16-38.2       16-38.2
               16-38.3       16-38.3
               16-38.4       16-38.4
               16-38.5       16-38.5
               16-38.6       16-38.6
               16-38.7       16-38.7
               16-38.8       16-38.8
               16-38.9       16-38.9
               16-38.10      16-38.10
               16-38.11      16-38.11
               16-38.12      16-38.12
               16-39.1       16-39.1
               16-39.2       16-39.2
               16-39.3       16-39.3
               16-39.4       16-39.4
               16-40.1       16-40.1
               16-40.2       16-40.2
               16-40.3       16-40.3
               16-40.4       16-40.4
               16-40.5       16-40.5
               16-41.1       16-41.1
               16-41.2       16-41.2
               16-41.3       16-41.3
               16-41.4       16-41.4
               16-41.5       16-41.5
               16-42.1       16-42.1
               16-42.2       16-42.2
               16-42.3       16-42.3
               16-42.4       16-42.4
               16-42.5       16-42.5
               16-42.6       16-42.6
               16-43         16-43
               16-44.1       16-44.1
               16-44.2       16-44.2
               16-44.3       16-44.3
               16-44.4       16-44.4
               16-44.5       16-44.5
               16-44.6       16-44.6
               16-45.1       16-45.1
               16-45.2       16-45.2
               16-45.3       16-45.3
               16-45.4       16-45.4
               16-45.5       16-45.5
               16-46.1       16-46.1
               16-46.2       16-46.2
               16-46.3       16-46.3
               16-46.4       16-46.4
               16-46.5       16-46.5
               16-47         16-47
               16-48.1       16-48.1
               16-48.2       16-48.2
               16-48.3       16-48.3
               16-48.4       16-48.4
               16-48.5       16-48.5
               16-48.6       16-48.6
               16-48.7       16-48.7
               16-48.8       16-48.8
               16-48.9       16-48.9
               16-48.10      16-48.10
               16-48.11      16-48.11
               16-48.12      16-48.12
               16-48.13      16-48.13
               16-48.14      16-48.14
               16-48.15      16-48.15
               16-48.16      16-48.16
               16-48.17      16-48.17
               16-48.18      16-48.18
               16-48.19      16-48.19
               16-49.1       16-49.1
               16-49.2       16-49.2
               16-49.3       16-49.3
               16-49.4       16-49.4
               16-49.5       16-49.5
               16-49.6       16-49.6
               16-49.7       16-49.7
               16-49.8       16-49.8
               16-49.9       16-49.9
               16-50.1       16-50.1
               16-50.2       16-50.2
               16-50.3       16-50.3
               16-50.4       16-50.4
               16-50.5       16-50.5
               16-50.6       16-50.6
               16-50.7       16-50.7
               16-51.1       16-51.1
               16-51.2       16-51.2
               16-51.3       16-51.3
               16-51.4       16-51.4
               16-52.1       16-52.1
               16-52.2       16-52.2
               16-52.3       16-52.3
               16-52.4       16-52.4
               16-52.5       16-52.5
               16.52.6       16.52.6
               16-52.7       16-52.7
               16-52.8       16-52.8
               16-52.9       16-52.9
               16-52.10      16-52.10
               16-52.11      16-52.11
               16-52.12      16-52.12
               16-53.1       16-53.1
               16-53.2       16-53.2
               16-53.3       16-53.3
               16-53.4       16-53.4
               16-53.5       16-53.5
               16-54.1       16-54.1
               16-54.2       16-54.2
               16-54.3       16-54.3
               16-54.4       16-54.4
               16-55         16-55
               16-56         16-56
               16-57.1       16-57.1
               16-57.2       16-57.2
               16-57.3       16-57.3
               16-57.4       16-57.4
               16-57.5       16-57.5
               16-57.6       16-57.6
               16-57.7       16-57.7
               16-57.8       16-57.8
               16-57.9       16-57.9
               16-57.10      16-57.10
               16-58.1       16-58.1
               16-58.2       16-58.2
               16-58.3       16-58.3
               16-58.4       16-58.4
               16-58.5       16-58.5
               16-58.6       16-58.6
               16-58.7       16-58.7
               16-59.1       16-59.1
               16-59.2       16-59.2
               16-59.3       16-59.3
               16-59.4       16-59.4
               16-59.5       16-59.5
               16.59.6       16.59.6
               16-59.7       16-59.7
               16-60.1       16-60.1
               16-61.1       16-61.1
               16-61.2       16-61.2
               16-61.3       16-61.3
               16-61.4       16-61.4
               16-61.5       16-61.5
               16-62         16-62
               16-63.1       16-63.1
               16-63.2       16-63.2
               16-63.3       16-63.3
               16-63.4       16-63.4
               16-63.5       16-63.5
               16-63.6       16-63.6
               16-63.7       16-63.7
               16-63.8       16-63.8
               16-63.9       16-63.9
               16-64         16-64
               17-1.1        17-1.1
               17-1.2        17-1.2
               17-1.3        17-1.3
               17-1.4        17-1.4
               17-2.1        17-2.1
               17-2.2        17-2.2
               17-2.3        17-2.3
               17-3.1        17-3.1
               17-3.2        17-3.2
               17-3.3        17-3.3
               17-3.4        17-3.4
               17-3.5        17-3.5
       C13 400 17-4.1        17-4.1
           401 17-4.2        17-4.2
           402 17-4.3        17-4.3
           403 17-4.4        17-4.4
           404 17-4.5        17-4.5
           405 17-4.6        17-4.6
           406 17-4.7        17-4.7
           407 17-4.8        17-4.8
           408 17-4.9        17-4.9
           409 17-4.10       17-4.10
           410 17-4.11       17-4.11
           411 17-4.12       17-4.12
           412 17-4.13       17-4.13
           413 17-4.14       17-4.14
           414 17-5.1        17-5.1
           415 17-5.2        17-5.2
           416 17-5.3        17-5.3
               17-6.1        17-6.1
           417 17-7.1        17-7.1
           418 17-14.1       17-14.1
           419 17-14.2       17-14.2
           420 17-14.3       17-14.3
           421 17-14.4       17-14.4
           422 17-14.5       17-14.5
           423 17-8.1        17-8.1
           424 17-8.2        17-8.2
           425 17-8.3        17-8.3
               17-9.1        17-9.1
               17-9.2        17-9.2
               17-9.3        17-9.3
               17-9.4        17-9.4
               17-9.5        17-9.5
               17-9.6        17-9.6
               17-9.7        17-9.7
               17-9.8        17-9.8
               17-10.1       17-10.1
               17-10.2       17-10.2
               17-10.3       17-10.3
               17-10.4       17-10.4
               17-10.5       17-10.5
               17-10.6       17-10.6
               17-10.7       17-10.7
               17-10.8       17-10.8
               17-10.9       17-10.9
           426 17-13.1       17-13.1
           427 17-13.2       17-13.2
           428 17-13.3       17-13.3
           429 17-13.4       17-13.4
           430 17-13.5       17-13.5
               17-15.1       17-15.1
               17-15.2       17-15.2
               17-15.3       17-15.3
               17-15.4       17-15.4
               17-15.6       17-15.6
               17-15.7       17-15.7
               17-15.8       17-15.8
               17-15.9       17-15.9
               17-15.10      17-15.10
               17-16.1       17-16.1
               17-16.2       17-16.2
               17-16.3       17-16.3
               17-17.1       17-17.1
               17-17.2       17-17.2
               17-17.3       17-17.3
               17-17.4       17-17.4
               17-17.5       17-17.5
               17-17.6       17-17.6
               17-17.7       17-17.7
               17-17.8       17-17.8
               17-17.9       17-17.9
               17-17.10      17-17.10  
               17-17.11      17-17.11
               17-18.1       17-18.1
               17-19.1       17-19.1
               17-20.1       17-20.1
               17-20.2       17-20.2
               17-20.3       17-20.3
               17-20.4       17-20.4
               17-20.5       17-20.5
               17-20.6       17-20.6
               17-20.7       17-20.7
               17-21.1       17-21.1
               17-21.2       17-21.2
               17-21.3       17-21.3
               17-21.4       17-21.4
               17-21.5       17-21.5
               17-21.6       17-21.6
               17-21.7       17-21.7
               17-21.8       17-21.8
       C15 450 Chapter XVIII Chapter XVIII
               18-1.1        18-1.1
               18-1.2        18-1.2
               18-1.3        18-1.3
               18-1.4        18-1.4
               18-1.5        18-1.5
               18-1.6        18-1.6
               18-1.7        18-1.7
               18-1.8        18-1.8
               18-1.9        18-1.9
               18-1.10       18-1.10
               18-1.11       18-1.11
               18-1.12       18-1.12
               18-1.13       18-1.13
               18-1.14       18-1.14
               18-1.15       18-1.15
               18-1.16       18-1.16
               18-1.17       18-1.17
               18-1.18       18-1.18
               18-1.19       18-1.19
               18-1.20       18-1.20
               18-1.21       18-1.21
               18-1.22       18-1.22
               18-1.23       18-1.23
               18-1.24       18-1.24
               18-2          18-2
           451 18-3          18-3
           452 18-4          18-4
           453 18-5          18-5
           454 18-6          18-6
           455 18-7          18-7
           456 18-8          18-8
           457 18-9          18-9
           458 18-10         18-10
               18-11.1       18-11.1
               18-11.2       18-11.2
               18-11.3       18-11.3
               18-11.4       18-11.4
               18-11.5       18-11.5
               18-11.6       18-11.6
               18-11.7       18-11.7
               18-11.8       18-11.8
               18-11.9       18-11.9
               18-12         18-12
T14    C17 500 14-5.1        14-5.1
T15    C1      Chapter 19    Chapter 19
               19-1.1        19-1.1
               19-1.2        19-1.2
               19-1.3        19-1.3
               19-2          19-2
               19-3.1        19-3.1
               19-3.2        19-3.2
T16    C1      20-1          20-1
       C3      20-2          20-2
       C5      20-3          20-3
       C7      20-4          20-4
       C9  300 20-5.1        20-5.1
           301 20-5.2        20-5.2
           302 20-5.3        20-5.3
           303 20-5.4        20-5.4
           304 20-5.5        20-5.5
               20-6.1        20-6.1
T17    C1      21-1          21-1
       C3  50  21-2.1        21-2.1
           51  21-2.2        21-2.2
           52  21-2.3        21-2.3
       C5      21-3          21-3
               21-4.1        21-4.1
               21-4.2        21-4.2
               21-4.3        21-4.3
               21-4.4        21-4.4
               21-4.5        21-4.5
               21-4.6        21-4.6
               21-4.7        21-4.7
               21-4.8        21-4.8
               21-4.9        21-4.9
               21-4.10       21-4.10
               21-5.1        21-5.1
               21-5.2        21-5.2
               21-5.3        21-5.3
               21-5.4        21-5.4
               21-5.5        21-5.5
               21-5.6        21-5.6
               21-6          21-6
T18    C1      22-1          22-1
       C3      22-2          22-2
               23-1          23-1
               23-2          23-2
               23-3          23-3
               23-4          23-4
               23-5          23-5
               23-6          23-6
               23-7          23-7
               23-8          23-8
               23-9          23-9
               23-10         23-10
               23-11         23-11
               23-12         23-12
               23-13         23-13
               23-14         23-14
               23-15         23-15
               23-16         23-16
               23-17         23-17
               23-18         23-18
               23-19         23-19
               23-20         23-20
               23-21         23-21
               23-22         23-22
               23-23         23-23
               23-24         23-24
               24-1          24-1
               24-2          24-2
               24-3.1        24-3.1
               24-3.2        24-3.2
               24-3.3        24-3.3
               24-3.4        24-3.4
               24-4          24-4
               24-5          24-5
               24-6.1        24-6.1
               24-6.2        24-6.2
               24-7.1        24-7.1
               24-7.2        24-7.2
               24-7.3        24-7.3
               24-7.4        24-7.4
               24-7.5        24-7.5
               24-7.6        24-7.6
               24-8.1        24-8.1
               24-8.2        24-8.2
               24-8.3        24-8.3
               24-8.4        24-8.4
               24-9          24-9
               24-10.1       24-10.1
               24-10.2       24-10.2
               24-10.3       24-10.3
               24-10.4       24-10.4
               24-10.5       24-10.5
               24-11         24-11
               24-12         24-12
               24-13         24-13
               24-14         24-14
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. Number Date of Adoption or Approval Short Title Code Section/ Subsection
Ord.   Date of
Number Adoption or Short Title                                                                   Code Section/ Subsection
       Approval
1976   2-1-1976    City Council Officers salary                                                  2-8.3
C. 1
1976   2-24-1976   Urban homestead program                                                       8-2.8
C. 2
1976   4-28-1976   Hawkers and peddlers license fee                                              18-1.8
C. 3
1976   4-20-1976   Police assignment to street work sites                                        11-6.9
C. 4
1976   5-10-1976   Municipal golf course fee                                                     18-1.7
C. 5
1976   5-12-1976   Fiscal note attachment to certain legislation                                 2-11
C. 6
1976   5-20-1976   Keeping animals                                                               16-1.10
C. 7
1976   6-16-1976   Municipal golf course fee                                                     18-1.7
C. 8
1976   7-6-1976    Employees’ residency requirement                                            5-5.3
C. 9
1976   7-22-1976   Building Commissioner added to Public Improvement Commission                  8-7.1
C. 10
                                                                                                 18-1.1;
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
                                                                                                 18-1.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.5;
                                                                                                 18-1.6;
                                                                                                 18-1.7;
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
                                                                                                 18-1.9;
                                                                                                 18-1.10;
1976   9-1-1976    Various Department fees amended                                               18-1.11;
C. 11                                                                                            18-1.12;
                                                                                                 18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.14;
                                                                                                 18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18;
                                                                                                 18-1.19;
                                                                                                 18-1.20;
                                                                                                 18-1.21;
                                                                                                 18-1.22;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
1976   10-6-1976   Permit fee to sell frozen desserts                                            18-1.6
C. 12
1976   11-3-1976   Prohibiting refuse treatment and disposal facilities                          16-1.21
C. 13
1976   11-8-1976   Licensing abortions and abortion clinics                                      17-1
C. 14
1976   12-15-1976  Date extension for regulations and forms                                      2-12.5
C. 15
1976   12-15-1976  Collector-Treasurer duties as custodian of trust fund                         6-3.11
C. 16
1976   12-13-1976  License fee to carry or possess firearms                                      Superseded by 18-1.6
C. 17
1976   12-27-1976  Sunday entertainment license fee                                              18-1.19
C. 18
1977   1-26-1977   Various Department fees amended                                               18-1.3
C. 1
1977   1-26-1977   Sunday entertainment license fee                                              18-1.19
C. 2
1977   4-7-1977    Expanding Air Pollution Control Commission                                    7-2.1
C. 3
1977   5-12-1977   Residency of constables                                                       2-7.2
C. 4
1977   5-18-1977   Office of Assistant City Clerk                                                2-10.4
C. 5
1977   6-6-1977    Street work permit amended                                                    11-6.9
C. 6
1977   7-11-1977   Various Department fees amended                                               18-1.13
C. 7
1977   9-29-1977   Job lottery                                                                   5-5.4
C. 8
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
1977                                                                                             18-1.3;
C. 9   10-5-1977   Various Department fees amended                                               18-1.6;
                                                                                                 18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.18
1977   10-12-1977  Public addresses, vending in public grounds                                   16-19.2
C. 10
1977   10-12-1977  Use of public grounds                                                         16-19.1
C. 11
1977   10-12-1977  Vehicles interfering with snow removal                                        11-6.43
C. 12
1977   10-12-1977  Vehicles interfering with garbage collection                                  11-6.44
C. 13
1977   10-19-1977  Street work permit amended                                                    11-6.9
C. 14
1977   12-14-1977  Various Department fees clarified                                             18-2
C. 15
1977   12-30-1977  Non-criminal disposition of certain ordinance violations                      16-32.4—
C. 16                                                                                            16-32.6
1977   12-7-1977   Building Department fees                                                      18-1.7
C. 17
1977   1-3-1978    Deadline extension for regulations and forms                                  2-12.5
C. 18
1978   3-13-1978   Municipal lien certificate fee                                                18-1.13
C. 1
1978   2-15-1978   Holdovers                                                                     5-5.11
C. 2
1978   3-8-1978    City document fees                                                            5-5.10
C. 3
1978   3-8-1978    Certain fees amended                                                          18-1.1
C. 4
1978   12-1-1978   Approval of funds to educate voters                                           Obsolete
C. 5
1978   6-21-1978   Designation of Haymarket-Blackstone market                                    17-3.1—
C. 6                                                                                             17-3.4
1978   6-28-1978   Boston 350 Commission established                                             Obsolete
C. 7
1978   8-11-1978   Police at polling places                                                      2-6
C. 8
1978   8-18-1978   Licensing for certain events                                                  17-13.2—
C. 9                                                                                             17-13.3
1978   8-25-1978   Restrictions on park frontages on Commonwealth Avenue                         7-4.10
C. 10
1979   2-21-1979   City Council Officers’ salary                                               2-8.3
C. 1
1979   1-31-1979   Minimum of Officers in Police Department                                      11-1.6
C. 2
1979   3-7-1979    Committee to study landfill site                                              Obsolete
C. 3
1979   2-21-1979   Entertainment prohibited during certain hours                                 17-13.6
C. 4
1979   2-21-1979   Shellfish permits                                                             16-4.1
C. 5
1979   2-21-1979   City Clerk to notify City Council                                             2-10.6
C. 6
1979   2-21-1979   Mayor’s Office employees limited                                            2-7.14
C. 7
1979   3-7-1979    Committee to study landfill site amended                                      Obsolete
C. 8
1979   3-21-1979   Public access to computerized information                                     5-5.35
C. 9
1979   3-21-1979   Repairs on private ways                                                       11-6.22
C. 10
1979   3-28-1979   Advertising of elected officials’ names prohibited                          1-6
C. 11
1979   3-28-1979   Positions in Mayor’s Office limited                                         2-7.12;
C. 12                                                                                            5-5.10
1979   4-11-1979   Salary of Francis W. Gens                                                     Special ordinance
C. 13
1979   5-9-1979    Corporation counsel                                                           5-8.1
C. 14
1979   5-9-1979    Excessive salary increases abolished                                          Obsolete
C. 15
1979   5-16-1979   Selection process of applicants for temporary positions                       5-5.4
C. 16
1979   5-16-1979   Corporation Counsel                                                           Obsolete
C. 17
1979   6-14-1979   License fee to carry or possess firearms                                      18-1.6
C. 18
1979   6-13-1979   Liability of Auditor and Collector-Treasurer for ordinance violations         5-5.7
C. 19
1979   6-10-1979   Commissioner of Federally Funded Agencies salary                              5-5.10
C. 20
1979   6-13-1979   Department of Federally Funded Agencies                                       5-4.1—
C. 21                                                                                            5-4.5
1979   6-13-1979   Department of Neighborhood and Human Services                                 11-3.1—
C. 22                                                                                            11-3.7
1979   5-30-1979   Bonding of Supervisor of Budgets                                              5-5.6
C. 23
1979   6-27-1979   Supervisor of Finance salary                                                  2-8.3
C. 24
1979   7-25-1979   Executive Director of Youth Activities Commission salary                      5-5.10
C. 25
1979   7-25-1979   Rules governing Youth Activities Commission personnel                         5-1.7
C. 26
1979   7-25-1979   Duties of Supervisor of Budgets                                               5-1.5
C. 27
1979   7-18-1979   Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 adopted                                   11-5
C. 28
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1979   8-1-1979    Regulating rents and evictions                                                10-2.10;
C. 29                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.20
1979   8-30-1979   Certain fees established                                                      Superseded by Ordinance No. 1981 c. 30
C. 30
1979   9-5-1979    Compressed air, water required at filling stations                            17-2.1
C. 31
1979   10-24-1979  Misrepresentation in job incentive programs                                   17-6
C. 32
1979   10-24-1979  Motor Vehicle Management Bureau                                               7-8.1—
C. 33                                                                                            7-8.8
1979   10-24-1979  Canine waste removal                                                          16-12.7
C. 34
1979   10-24-1979  Violation fines for canine waste laws                                         16-32.3
C. 35
1979   10-10-1979  Installation of fire and smoke detectors                                      21-6
C. 36
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1979   12-26-1979  Evictions for condominium conversions                                         10-2.10;
C. 37                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1979   12-19-1979  Bonding of constables                                                         2-7.2
C. 38
1979   12-19-1979  Transportation of hazardous materials                                         17-15.1—
C. 39                                                                                            17-15.10
1979   12-26-1979  Access to public building by handicapped                                      21-4.1—
C. 40                                                                                            21-4.10
1979   11-14-1979  Prohibiting use of the word “Mayor” in titles                             1-7
C. 41
1979   1-23-1980   Acceptance of Office                                                          5-5.1
C. 42
1979   3-12-1980   Fiscal year                                                                   6-4.1
C. 43
1979   12-17-1980  Preference to city firms in purchases                                         4-2
C. 44
1980   5-3-1980    Concerning claims                                                             5-5.23
C. 1
1980   5-21-1980   Oaths of Office ceremonies                                                    2-1.1
C. 2
1980   5-21-1980   Procedure against Officials excessively expending funds                       6-1.11
C. 3
1980   8-6-1980    Public Information Officer                                                    5-5.36
C. 4
1980   8-27-1980   Rail transportation of hazardous material requirement                         17-16.1—
C. 5                                                                                             17-16.3
1980   8-27-1980   Creating Department of Neighborhood Human Services                            11-3.1—
C. 6                                                                                             11-3.7
1980   8-27-1980   Department of Federally Funded Agencies amended                               5-4
C. 7
1980   8-27-1980   Provisions for annual appropriation orders                                    6-1.12
C. 8
1980   8-27-1980   Creating Office of Public Service                                             5-5.36;
C. 9                                                                                             11-3.8
1980   9-10-1980   Vendors to itemize bills submitted to city                                    5-5.25
C. 10
1980   9-26-1980   Certain municipal officials                                                   5-5.10;
C. 11                                                                                            5-5.13
1980   9-30-1980   Mayor’s salary                                                              2-7.11
C. 12
1980   10-16-1980  City Councillors’ salary                                                    2-8.1
C. 13
1980   11-5-1980   Municipal vehicles mileage                                                    1-4
C. 14
1980   12-30-1980  Requirements of testimony about appropriations                                5-5.31
C. 15
1980   12-30-1980  Smoking restrictions in public buildings                                      21-5.1—
C. 16                                                                                            21-5.6
1980   3-4-1981    Creating employment and economic policy administration                        8-8.1—
C. 17                                                                                            8-8.3
1981   4-1-1981    Space allotment in City Hall garage                                           11-7.11
C. 1
1981   4-8-1981    Access to electronic data retrieval systems                                   5-1.2
C. 2
1981   5-14-1981   Fire fighting assistance to other cities                                      11-4.3
C. 3
1981   5-19-1981   Operation of refuse treatment and disposal facilities                         16-1.21
C. 4
1981   5-29-1981   Playing fields, fees                                                          18-1.16
C. 5
1981   6-12-1981   Fee of Auditorium Commission                                                  Repealed by Ordinance No. 1985 C. 12
C. 6
1981   6-12-1981   Replacement fee for lost badges, medallions, plates                           18-1.2
C. 7
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1981   7-2-1981    Regulating evictions                                                          10-2.10;
C. 8                                                                                             10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1981   7-2-1981    George Wright Golf Course fee                                                 18-1.7
C. 9
1981   7-2-1981    William J. Devine Golf Course fee                                             18-1.7
C. 10
1981   7-8-1981    Hawkers and peddlers license fee                                              18-1.8
C. 11
1981   7-23-1981   Recombinant DNA technology regulations                                        17-9.1—
C. 12                                                                                            17-9.8
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.6;
1981                                                                                             18-1.10;
C. 13  7-31-1981   City Clerk and other fees                                                     18-1.14;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18;
                                                                                                 18-1.20 
1981                                                                                             18-1.2;
C. 14  8-4-1981    Fees of City Registrar                                                        18-1.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.13 
1981   8-4-1981    Weights and measures fees                                                     18-1.23
C. 15
1981   8-4-1981    Shellfish licenses                                                            18-1.19
C. 16
1981   8-5-1981    Security provisions at municipal garages                                      11-7.1
C. 17
1981   9-5-1981    Fire fighting assistance to other cities                                      11-4.3
C. 18
1981   9-10-1981   Creating the Inspectional Services Department                                 9-9.1—
C. 19                                                                                            9-9.7
1981   10-14-1981  Prohibiting employees’ political contributions                              Repealed by Ordinance No. 1983 C. 11
C. 20
1981   10-14-1981  Establishing Designer Selection Board                                         4-1.2—
C. 21                                                                                            4-1.4
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.6—
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
1981   12-11-1981  Fire Department fees                                                          18-1.10;
C. 22                                                                                            18-1.12;
                                                                                                 18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—18-1.20;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
1981   12-28-1981  Board of Examiners, Board of Appeals, fees                                    18-1.1;
C. 23                                                                                            18-1.2
1981   12-28-1981  Collector-Treasurer fees                                                      18-1.18
C. 24
1981   12-28-1981  Assessing fees                                                                18-1.1
C. 25
1981   12-28-1981  Target practice range license fee                                             18-1.20
C. 26
1981   12-28-1981  Board of Election fees                                                        18-1.18;
C. 27                                                                                            18-1.22
                                                                                                 18-1.5—
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
1981   12-28-1981  Inspectional Services Department fees                                         18-1.12;
C. 28                                                                                            18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.19;
                                                                                                 18-1.21
1981   12-28-1981  Certificates of use and occupancy fees                                        18-1.21
C. 29
1981   12-28-1981  Inspectional Services Department fee                                          18-1.6
C. 30
1981   12-31-1981  Cemetery Division                                                             7-5.2;
C. 31                                                                                            18-1.3
1981   12-31-1981  Fire fighting assistance to other municipalities                              11-4.3
C. 32
1981   12-31-1981  Directional sign, loading zone, parking space license fees                    18-1.4;
C. 33                                                                                            18-1.12
                                                                                                 18-1.2—
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.6—
1981                                                                                             18-1.9;
C. 34  2-3-1982    Board of Health and hospitals fees                                            18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.20
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
                                                                                                 18-1.3;
1981                                                                                             18-1.5;
C. 35  2-3-1982    Licensing Board, various fees                                                 18-1.6;
                                                                                                 18-1.9;
                                                                                                 18-1.12;
                                                                                                 18-1.16
1981   7-14-1982   Bridge and tunnels licensing                                                  16-13.2
C. 36
1982   2-5-1982    License to connect private fire alarm                                         18-1.16
C. 1
1982   2-8-1982    Residential parking permit fees                                               Repealed by Ordinance No. 1982, C. 32
C. 2
1982   2-12-1982   Cemetery permit fee                                                           18-1.3
C. 3
1982   2-12-1982   Public records fee                                                            18-1.16
C. 4
                                                                                                 16-33.1—16-33.7;
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
1982   2-18-1982   Street and parkway occupancy fees                                             18-1.12;
C. 5                                                                                             18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18;
                                                                                                 18-1.19
1982   3-8-1982    Districts established for choosing City Councillors                           Repealed by Ordinance No. 1985 C. 25 1
C. 6
1982   2-25-1982   Augmented fire service availability                                           18-11.1—
C. 7                                                                                             18-11.9
1982   3-12-1982   City record charges                                                           18-8
C. 8
1982   3-26-1982   Constable training course fee                                                 18-1.3
C. 9
1982   3-29-1982   Boston Fair Housing Commission created                                        10-3.1—
C. 10                                                                                            10-3.6
1982   4-12-1982   Regulating security alarm systems                                             11-2.1—
C. 11                                                                                            11-2.8
1982   4-14-1982   Augmented fire services availability                                          18-11.1—
C. 12                                                                                            18-11.9
1982                                                                                             5-5.10;
C. 13  5-25-1982   Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Recreation Department                        7-4.1;
                                                                                                 7-4.2
                                                                                                 6-6.1;
1982   5-25-1982   Office of Parking Clerk created                                               6-6.2;
C. 14                                                                                            6-6.4—
                                                                                                 6-6.10
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1982   6-7-1982    Evictions for condominium conversions                                         10-2.10;
C. 15                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
                                                                                                 10-2.6;
1982   6-7-1982    Regulating residential rents and evictions                                    10-2.8—
C. 16                                                                                            10-2.10;
                                                                                                 10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
                                                                                                 10-2.6;
1982   6-7-1982    Accommodations in cooperatives                                                10-2.8—
C. 17                                                                                            10-2.10;
                                                                                                 10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1982   6-8-1982    Sealing of scales and balances fee                                            18-1.23
C. 18
1982   6-11-1982   Municipally-owned buildings, fees                                             18-1.8
C. 19
1982   6-22-1982   Fire fighting assistance to other municipalities                              11-4.3
C. 20
1982   6-23-1982   Restricting public liquor consumption; procurement of alcohol by minors       16-12.29—
C. 21                                                                                            16-12.31
1982   7-6-1982    Sealing of scales and balances fees                                           18-1.23
C. 22
1982   7-26-1982   Drinking or possession of alcoholic beverages                                 16-12.28
C. 23
1982   8-9-1982    Salaries of members of Board of Appeal                                        5-5.10
C. 24
1982   8-9-1982    Salaries of Board of Examiners                                                5-5.10
C. 25
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1982   8-23-1982   Condominium/cooperative conversion                                            10-2.10;
C. 26                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1982   8-18-1982   Common victualler’s license fee                                             18-1.3
C. 27
1982   8-18-1982   Parkway or street occupancy for building construction fee                     18-1.16
C. 28
1982   10-5-1982   Establishing the Office of Public Information                                 5-8.1;
C. 29                                                                                            5-8.2
1982   10-5-1982   Establishing the Office of Policy Management                                  5-7.1;
C. 30                                                                                            5-7.2
1982   10-19-1982  Commissioner of Public Works salary                                           5-5.10
C. 31
1982   10-21-1982  Repealing fee for residential parking permit, Ord. No. 1982 C. 2
C. 32
1982   11-22-1982  Boston Fair Housing Commission                                                10-3.2
C. 33
1982   12-17-1982  Legal expenses reimbursed to employees                                        5-5.19
C. 34
1982   12-8-1982   Community antenna television system license fee                               18-1.3
C. 35
1982   1-4-1983    Fire fighting assistance to other municipalities                              11-4.3
C. 36
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
                                                                                                 10-2.6;
1982   12-31-1982  Rent and eviction controls                                                    10-2.8—
C. 37                                                                                            10-2.10;
                                                                                                 10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1982   1-26-1983   Rodent and insect prevention at construction sites                            16-31
C. 38
1982   1-26-1983   Declaring a state of emergency                                                10-6.1—
C. 39                                                                                            10-6.7
1982   2-16-1983   Use of public grounds                                                         16-19.2;
C. 40                                                                                            18-1.16
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1983   1-10-1983   Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 1                                                                                             10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1983   1-10-1983   Use and occupation of public and private ways                                 11-6.19—
C. 2                                                                                             11-6.25
1983   1-19-1983   City Council positions and salaries                                           2-8.3
C. 3
1983   2-14-1983   Emergency Shelter Commission                                                  10-4.1—
C. 4                                                                                             10-4.3
1983   2-9-1983    Signature requirement for candidates for district elective positions          2-9.1
C. 5
1983   2-24-1983   Augmented fire services availability                                          18-11.1—18 11.9
C. 6
1983   3-25-1983   Position of Legislative Director                                              2-8.3
C. 7
1983   4-7-1983    Duties of Inspectional Services Department                                    9-9.8;
C. 8                                                                                             9-9.9
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1983   4-7-1983    Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 9                                                                                             10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1983   4-7-1983    Tax delinquent properties                                                     6-3.1
C. 10
1983   4-23-1983   Special Commission on Campaign and Political Finance                          Obsolete
C. 11
1983   5-11-1983   The Institutional Expansion Board created                                     10-5.1—
C. 12                                                                                            10-5.6
1983   5-13-1983   Arson Prevention Commission created                                           9-10.1—
C. 13                                                                                            9-10.5
1983   5-23-1983   Fire fighting assistance to other cities                                      11-4.3
C. 14
1983   6-20-1983   Commissioner of Parks and Recreation                                          5-5.10
C. 15
1983   6-20-1983   Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Recreation                                   5-5.10
C. 16
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1983   6-29-1983   Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 17                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1983   6-30-1983   Bay Village Historic District Commission                                      7-3.1—
C. 18                                                                                            7-3.11
1983   7-8-1983    Legislative Director’s salary                                               2-8.3
C. 19
1983   7-18-1983   Special parking areas, hp/v plates                                            6-7.1—
C. 20                                                                                            6-7.3
1983   6-29-1983   Fire services availability                                                    18-11.9
C. 21
1983   7-20-1983   Environmental protection ordinances                                           16-32.7
C. 22
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1983   8-3-1983    Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 23                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1983   8-5-1983    Environmental protection ordinances                                           16-32.7
C. 24
1983   8-11-1983   Districts established for choosing City Councillors                           2-9.2
C. 25
1983   8-15-1983   Permit for use of parks for demonstrations                                    16-9.3
C. 26
1983   9-15-1983   Salary of Commissioner of traffic and parking                                 5-5.10
C. 27
1983   9-27-1983   Legislative Director’s salary                                               2-8.3
C. 28
1983   9-30-1983   City Council positions and salaries                                           2-8.3
C. 29
1983   10-14-1983  Boston residents job policy                                                   8-9.1—
C. 30                                                                                            8-9.7
1983   10-14-1983  Salary of Council liaison                                                     2-8.3
C. 31
1983   10-14-1983  Salary of City Messenger                                                      2-8.3
C. 32
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1983   12-30-1983  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 33                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1983   12-30-1983  Refuse treatment and disposal facilities                                      16-1.21
C. 34
1983   2-1-1984    Safety measures for gas leaks                                                 17-12.1—
C. 36                                                                                            17-12.4
                                                                                                 5-6.1—5-6 7;
1984                                                                                             10-2.1—
C. 1   2-2-1984    Reserves for State - Boston Retirement System                                 10-2.10;
                                                                                                 10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1984   3-14-1984   Parking fines amnesty program                                                 Obsolete
C. 2
1984   3-14-1984   Institutional Expansion Board                                                 10-5.1
C. 3
1984   3-14-1984   Automobile safety devices, unreasonable noise                                 16-26.2
C. 4
1984   3-14-1984   Automobile safety devices, unreasonable noise penalty                         16-26.3
C. 5
1984                                                                                             9-10.1;
C. 6   4-4-1984    Arson Prevention Commission                                                   9-10.2;
                                                                                                 9-10.4
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   3-14-1984   Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 7                                                                                             10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1984   5-1-1984    Handicapped parking identification card                                       6-7.3
C. 8
1984   3-14-1984   Arson Prevention Commission                                                   9-10.1
C. 9
1984   5-24-1984   Certain times for construction                                                16-26.4
C. 10
1984   6-13-1984   Resident employees laid off last                                              5-5.5
C. 11
1984   7-3-1984    Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing                                      15-5
C. 12
1984   7-3-1984    Office of Informational Services                                              15-6
C. 13
1984   7-3-1984    Office of Constituent Services                                                15-4
C. 14
1984   7-3-1984    Office of Business and Cultural Development                                   15-3
C. 15
1984   6-27-1984   Boston Human Rights Commission                                                12-9.1—
C. 16                                                                                            12-9.15
                                                                                                 12-9.1;
1984                                                                                             12-9.2;
C. 17  7-11-1984   Boston Human Rights Commission                                                12-9.9;
                                                                                                 12-9.11;
                                                                                                 12-9.12
1984   7-11-1984   Boston Human Rights Commission                                                12-9.11
C. 18
1984   7-26-1984   Divesting monies from South Africa or Namibia                                 6-3.7
C. 19
1984   8-8-1984    Reorganizing City Council staff                                               2-8.3
C. 20
1984   8-8-1984    Additions to City Council staff                                               2-8.3;
C. 21                                                                                            2-8.4
1984   9-4-1984    Distribution of tobacco products forbidden in public                          16-2.3
C. 22
1984   10-19-1984  City Auditor’s salary                                                       5-5.10
C. 23
1984   10-19-1984  Collector-Treasurer’s salary                                                5-5.10
C. 24
1984   10-19-1984  Home Weatherization Program                                                   15-2.1;
C. 25                                                                                            15-2.2
1984   10-19-1984  Housing Inspection Department                                                 9-1.3
C. 26
1984   10-19-1984  Home repair program for seniors                                               12-3.4
C. 27
1984   10-19-1984  Neighborhood Impact Commission                                                10-7.1—
C. 28                                                                                            10-7.3
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 29                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 30                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 31                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 32                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 33                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
                                                                                                 10-2.1—
1984   10-26-1984  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 34                                                                                            10-2.14—
                                                                                                 10-2.23
1984   10-29-1984  Commission on Women                                                           15-1.1—15-1.4
C. 35
1984   11-28-1984  Paternity/Maternity Leave Policy                                              5-5.20
C. 36
1984   11-30-1984  Publication of ordinances                                                     2-12.3
C. 37
1984   11-30-1984  Restrictions on park frontages in Brighton District                           7-4.10
C. 38
1984   12-14-1984  Housing Inspection Department                                                 9-1.3
C. 39
1984   12-21-1984  Boston Human Rights Commission                                                12-9.1;
C. 40                                                                                            12-9.2
1985   1-30-1985   Construction restrictions on Commonwealth Avenue                              7-4.10;
C. 1                                                                                             7-4.11
1985   2-27-1985   Notification of changes in polling places                                     2-3.3
C. 2
1985   4-10-1985   Noise levels at residential lot lines                                         16-26.5
C. 3
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
                                                                                                 18-1.10;
1985   4-19-1985   Fees, fines, license structure of city                                        18-1.12—
C. 4                                                                                             18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.20;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
1985   5-3-1985    Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.19
C. 5
1985   Disapproved Abolishing the Inspectional Services Department                               Not codified
C. 6   5-1-1985
1985   5-1-1985    Prohibiting the overflow of dumpsters                                         16-12.13
C. 7
1985   5-22-1985   City Council Staff Director’s salary                                        2-8.3
C. 8
1985   5-24-1985   Overfill of dumpsters on commercial property                                  16-12.18
C. 9
1985   12-4-1985   Disposal and treatment of refuse                                              17-11.8
C. 10
                                                                                                 10-2.1;
1985   12-19-1985  Rental housing equity ordinance                                               10-2.10;
C. 11                                                                                            10-2.11;
                                                                                                 10-2.22
1985   12-20-1985  Deletes use of auditorium fee                                                 18-1.1
C. 12
1985   12-20-1985  Motorized bicycle operators to use headgear                                   16-15.6
C. 13
1985   1-5-1986    Assistance information center                                                 10-4.2
C. 14
                                                                                                 16-1.20;
1986   2-26-1986   Amending the environmental ordinances                                         16-12.8;
C. 1                                                                                             16-32.4;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
1986   2-26-1986   Refunding of building permit fees in certain instances                        18-1.2
C. 2
1986   5-23-1986   Amend salary of City Councillors                                              2-8.1
C. 3
1986   5-23-1986   Establishing a division known as the Office of Arts and Humanities, and       5-2.1;
C. 4               reorganizing the Art Commission                                               15-9
1986   5-7-1986    Increasing the salary of the Mayor                                            2-7.11
C. 5
1986   6-6-1986    Amend city code RE: City Council staff                                        2-8.3
C. 6
1986   6-6-1986    Establishing the neighborhood housing trust                                   10-8
C. 7
1986                                                                                             16-12.2A;
C. 8   6-23-1986   Amending the environmental ordinances RE: display of permits                  16-32.4;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
1986   7-1-1986    Extending regulations established by ordinance with respect to the use of     17-9.8
C. 9               recombinant DNA technology
1986                                                                                             16-8A; 16-8B;
C. 10  7-14-1986   Further amending the environmental ordinances RE: graffiti                    16-32.4;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
1986   7-18-1986   Creating the Boston ground water trust                                        20-6
C. 11
1986   8-12-1986   Establishing the Boston Employment Commission                                 Repealed by Ordinance No. 2017 C. 1
C. 12
1986   6-24-1986   Amending an ordinance further regulating the operation of hackney carriages   16-15.5
C. 13
1986   8-29-1986   Fixing the fee for permits to maintain underground storage facilities         18-1.21
C. 14
1986   8-13-1986   Establish a Boston Compensation Advisory Board                                5-5.10A
C. 15
1986   7-23-1986   Concerning parental responsibility for public consumption of alcoholic        16-12.31
C. 16              beverages by minors
1986   9-26-1986   Amending the Boston Employment Commission                                     Repealed by Ordinance No. 2017 C. 1
C. 17
1986   10-8-1986   Amend City of Boston Code (new Section 4-3)                                   4-3
C. 18
1986   12-5-1986   Prohibiting excessive noise which disturbs the peace of residential           16-26.5
C. 19              neighborhoods
1986   12-11-1986  Amend the rental housing equity ordinance                                     10-2.10
C. 20
1986   12-11-1986  Relative to parkways or street occupancy permits for awnings, canopies or     16-1.16
C. 21              marquees
1986   12-17-1986  Establishing for a limited time a special Commission to be known as the       7-10
C. 22              Allston/Brighton Commonwealth Avenue Commission
1986   12-19-1986  Salary categories for certain offices                                         5-5.10;
C. 23                                                                                            19-2
1987   2-13-1987   Creating the comparable worth Commission                                      5-5
C. 1
1987               Reorganizing the Parks and Recreation Commission and the Parks and Recreation 5-5.10;
C. 2   3-12-1987   Department                                                                    7-4.1;
                                                                                                 7-4.2 
1987   4-28-1987   Establishing a Clean City Commission and the Environmental Ordinance          7-10;
C. 3               Enforcement Commission                                                        7-11
1987   5-1-1987    Regulating the rents, eviction and condominium conversion evictions of mobile 10-2.1
C. 4               homes and mobile home lots
1987   6-18-1987   Establishing districts for choosing certain City Councillors and School       2-9.2
C. 5               Committee members
1987   6-24-1987   Prohibiting evictions from rent controlled and decontrolled housing units for 10-2.9
C. 6               purposes of condominium and cooperative conversions
1987   6-29-1987   Amending the Arson Prevention Commission                                      9-10.1
C. 7
1987   6-29-1987   Amending the fees charged for certificates relative to business names         18-1.2
C. 8
1987   7-21-1987   Repealing fees, Fire Department                                               18-1.16
C. 9
1987   8-10-1987   Amending fee for permit                                                       18-1.6
C. 10
1987   9-8-1987    Establishing the neighborhood jobs trust                                      12-11
C. 11
1987   12-22-1987  Amending the rental housing equity ordinance to require removal permits for   10-2.13
C. 12              mobile homes and mobile home parks
1987   12-22-1987  Creating in the city a Commission for Persons with Disabilities               12-4
C. 13
1987   12-31-1987  Promoting minority and women owned business enterprises in the city           4-4
C. 14
1987   12-30-1987  Creating the position of Municipal Affirmative Action Officer                 15-10
C. 15
1987   1-13-1988   Providing for child care referral for city employees                          5-1.6
C. 16
1987   1-13-1988   Providing for child care facilities                                           11-7.4
C. 17
1988   4-15-1988   Regulating the sale and marketing of replica firearms in the city             16-5
C. 1
1988   3-30-1988   Ordinance regarding the absence of the Mayor                                  2-1.1
C. 2
1988   4-29-1988   Amending city code, ordinances                                                9-5.2
C. 3
1988   5-20-1988   Permits for removal/ conversion of housing accommodations in lodging houses   10-2.12
C. 4               and rooming houses
1988   5-27-1988   Concerning fire alarm systems                                                 11-5A
C. 5
1988   5-18-1988   Amending city code ordinances RE: City Council staff                          2-8.3
C. 6
1988   6-24-1988   Amending Chapter 4 of the Ordinances of 1988 permits for removal/conversion   10-2.12
C. 7               of housing accommodations in lodging houses and rooming houses
1988   6-14-1988   Amending the fee, fine and license structure of the city concerning the       18.1.16
C. 8               Transportation Department
                                                                                                 10-2.1;
1988               Amending the rental housing equity ordinance to require removal permits and   10-2.2;
C. 9   7-15-1988   to improve tenant protections (removal permit ordinance)                      10-2.9—
                                                                                                 10-2.11;
                                                                                                 10-2.13
       7-19-1988*
1988   *See        Amending the Arson Prevention Commission                                      9-10
C. 10  notation on
       Ordinance
1988   10-14-1988  Improving the rent, eviction and condominium conversion protections for       10-2.1;
C. 11              tenants in governmentally-involved housing                                    10-2.2
1988   10-14-1988  Amending the comparable worth ordinance                                       5-5
C. 12
1988   10-21-1988  Amending the rental housing equity ordinance to give elderly and handicapped  10-2.9A
C. 13              tenants the right to own and live with pets
1988   10-26-1988  An ordinance (concerning weekly report to be prepared by the Police           11-11
C. 14              Commissioner)
                                                                                                 16-1.19;
                                                                                                 16-4;
1988                                                                                             16-12.2A;
C. 15  11-18-1988  Further amending the environmental ordinances                                 16-32.1;
                                                                                                 16-32.4;
                                                                                                 16-32.6;
                                                                                                 16-32.7
1988   12-2-1988   Amending the ordinance establishing the Conservation Commission               7-1
C. 16
1988   1-25-1989   Establishing temporary emergency provisions relative to disposal of           16-1.26;
C. 17              infectious and/or hazardous medical waste                                     16-32.6
1989   2-3-1989    Clarifying the exemption of Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency (“MHFA”) 10-2.1;
C. 1               from certain sections of the Boston rent equity ordinance                     10-2.2
1989   2-3-1989    Amending the Boston rent equity ordinance to clarify language concerning      10-2.1
C. 2               rents in governmentally involved housing
1989   2-21-1989   Requiring harmony in construction contracts                                   4-5
C. 3
1989                                                                                             9-11.1—
C. 4   2-27-1989   Concerning security in elderly/handicapped housing developments               9-11.8;
                                                                                                 11-1.7
1989   2-27-1989   Creating for a limited time a Special Commission on Public Education          Obsolete; not codified
C. 5
1989   4-26-1989   Establishing a Board of Overseers of the Public Library                       11-8.1
C. 6
1989               Extending the time for the production of a study by the Rent Equity Board
C. 7   5-1-1989    regarding the eviction practices and procedures of the Massachusetts Housing  10-2.2
                   Finance Agency
1989   4-12-1989   Unlawful to take reprisal against any individual who testifies before the     16-34
C. 8               Boston City Council
1989   5-31-1989   Amending the Boston Fire Prevention Code                                      Not codified at this time
C. 9
1989   9-5-1989    Establishing the Youth Services Commission                                    12-6.1
C. 10
1989   12-18-1989  Inspection of roofs and ceilings over certain swimming pools                  9-9.10
C. 11
1989   1-24-1990   Consultants: employment and compensation                                      4-6
C. 12
1990   2-14-1990   Amending cemetery charges                                                     18-1.3
C. 1
1990   2-14-1990   Amending payment for burial vaults                                            7-5.3
C. 2
1990   3-28-1990   Amending license to possess assault weapons                                   18-1.6
C. 4
                                                                                                 6-6.3;
                                                                                                 11-5;
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.5—
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
1990                                                                                             18-1.12;
C. 5   6-6-1990    Amending miscellaneous fees, fines and charges                                18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.20;
                                                                                                 18-1.22;
                                                                                                 18-1.23;
                                                                                                 18-8
1990   6-27-1990   Establishing Disruption Mitigation Plan for road construction projects        8-10
C. 6
1990   6-20-1990   Authorizing City Clerk to renew license of certain motor carriers             18-1.10
C. 7
1990   7-25-1990   Hiring of replacement workers or strikebreakers                               12-12
C. 8
1990   7-25-1990   Establishing recycling program                                                7-13
C. 9
1990   9-12-1990   Amending financing statement under Uniform Commercial Code                    18-1.6
C. 10
1990   10-3-1990   Amending city document fees                                                   5-1.10
C. 11
1991   2-14-1991   Designating the Chief Procurement Officer of the City of Boston               5-1.3
C. 1
1991   6-26-1991   Amending the rental housing equity ordinance                                  10-2.2;
C. 2                                                                                             18-1
1991   6-26-1991   Further extending regulations established by ordinance with respect to the    Added to footnote for 17-9.8
C. 3               use of recombinant DNA technology
1991                                                                                             16-26.1;
C. 4   8-7-1991    Regarding unreasonable and excessive noise                                    16-26.6—
                                                                                                 16-26.14
                                                                                                 14-5;
                                                                                                 16-1.1A;
                                                                                                 16-1.2—16.1.9A;
                                                                                                 16-1.10A;
                                                                                                 16-1.13—
                                                                                                 16-1.26;
                                                                                                 16-2.1;
                                                                                                 16-2.4;
                                                                                                 16-3;
                                                                                                 16-8B;
                                                                                                 16-10;
                                                                                                 16-12.1;
1991                                                                                             16-12.4—
C. 5   10-2-1991   Health inspection matters and public works matters                            16-12.7;
                                                                                                 16-12.10—
                                                                                                 16-12.14;
                                                                                                 16-12.16—
                                                                                                 16-12.23;
                                                                                                 16-14;
                                                                                                 16-15.2;
                                                                                                 16-22;
                                                                                                 16-23.4;
                                                                                                 16-27;
                                                                                                 16-28.2;
                                                                                                 17-2.3;
                                                                                                 17-11;
                                                                                                 18-1; Ch. XXII
1991   10-2-1991   Removing restrictions on the nation of Namibia from ordinances applying to    4-3;
C. 6               transactions involving South Africa                                           6-3.7
1991   - -         Concerning the registration of commercial bicycle messenger services and the  17-17.1—17-17.12
C. 7               licensing of commercial bicycle messengers
1992   1-29-1992   Security for student housing                                                  9-12.1—
C. 1                                                                                             9-12.5
1992   1-29-1992   Repeal provisions for administrative assistants and secretarial positions for 2-8.4
C. 2               Office of President and City Councillors
1992   2-5-1992    Forbidding possession of certain dangerous weapons in schoolhouses and in     19-1.1;
C. 3               City Hall                                                                     21-1.1
1992   3-2-1992    Amending conditions for registration of bicycle messengers                    17-17.4
C. 4
1992   3-23-1992   Amending fees - certification by City Clerk                                   18-1.3
C. 5
1992   4-29-1992   Adding license and permit denial, revocation or suspension                    16-A1
C. 6
                                                                                                 16-1.23;
1992                                                                                             16-1.25;
C. 7   5-18-1992   Amending prohibitions, penalties and permits                                  16-10;
                                                                                                 16-10.1—
                                                                                                 16-10.5
1992   9-1-1992    Authorizing certain charges in the Haymarket-Blackstone Market                17-3.5
C. 8
1992   9-30-1992   Increasing fines for large commercial trucks which park overnight on          6-6.3
C. 9               residential streets
1992   9-23-1992   Amending fire alarm systems to provide a lien for unpaid fines                11-5A.5A
C. 10
1992   9-23-1992   Security alarm systems                                                        11-2.1—
C. 11                                                                                            11-2.12
1992   12-2-1992   Prevention of sexually transmitted diseases                                   17-13.7
C. 12
1992   12-9-1992   Amending salary of City Council personnel                                     2-8.3
C. 13
1992   12-16-1992  Amending minority and women owned business enterprises                        4-4.8
C. 14
1993   2-10-1993   Prohibiting non-emergency vehicle repair on streets                           6-6.3
C. 1
1993   3-31-1993   Amending age requirement for drinking or possession of alcoholic beverages    16-12.29;
C. 2                                                                                             16-12.30
1993   5-4-1993    Smoking in the workplace                                                      16-35.1—
C. 3                                                                                             16-35.7
1993   5-12-1993   Establishing nine electoral districts                                         2-9.2
C. 4
1993   6-9-1993    Classification of employees                                                   5-5.10
C. 5
1993   6-23-1993   Penalty for non-emergency vehicle repair on streets                           6-6.3
C. 6
1993   6-23-1993   Amends effective date of rental housing equity ordinance                      10-2.20
C. 7
1993   8-18-1993   Amends effective date of minority and women business enterprise ordinance     4-4.8
C. 8
1993   10-20-1993  Cigarette sales by vending machines restricted                                16-36.1—
C. 9                                                                                             16-36.4
1993   10-27-1993  Amending rental housing equity ordinance                                      10-2.1
C. 10
1993   12-8-1993   Prompt release of information in cases of stranger sexual assault             11-7.12
C. 11
1993   12-15-1993  Family registration ordinance                                                 12-9A.1—
C. 12                                                                                            12-9A.9
1993   12-15-1993  Loaned executive program                                                      2-7.15
C. 13
1994   3-30-1994   Amending Inspectional Services Department                                     9-9.1—9-9.3
C. 1
1994                                                                                             16-12.16;
C. 2   3-23-1994   Amending removal of ice and snow                                              16-32.1;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
1994   4-13-1994   Adding monthly reports on incidents in schools                                19-1.1
C. 3
1994   5-4-1994    Repealing prohibition expenditure and investment of public funds with         4-3;
C. 4               companies doing business with South Africa                                    6-3.7
1994   5-25-1994   Amending Trustees of Public Library                                           11-8.1
C. 5
1994               Amending transfer of functions between Public Facilities Department and Real  8-1;
C. 6   6-8-1994    Property Department                                                           11-7.1—
                                                                                                 11-7.13
1994   6-22-1994   Amending minority and women business enterprise ordinance                     4-4.8
C. 7
1994   6-22-1994   Amending rent equity ordinance                                                10-2.1
C. 8
1994   6-29-1994   Adding Window Falls Prevention Program                                        9-9.11
C. 9
1994                                                                                             5-5.3;
C. 10  6-22-1994   Amending city residency ordinance                                             5-10.1;
                                                                                                 5-10.2
1994   8-10-1994   Amending City Council personnel; salaries                                     2-8.3
C. 11
1994                                                                                             16-2.5;
C. 12  9-21-1994   Adding sale of propelled novelty substances prohibited                        16-12.14;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
1994   10-19-1994  Adding parental school leave                                                  12-13.1—
C. 13                                                                                            12-13.3
1994   11-2-1994   Adding display of certain paints and markers                                  16-8.2—
C. 14                                                                                            16-8.4
1994   12-21-1994  Amending salary of City Council                                               2-8.1
C. 15
1994   12-21-1994  Amending salary of Mayor                                                      2-7.11
C. 16
1994   12-21-1994  Amending salary categories for certain Officers                               5-5.10
C. 17
1994   12-21-1994  Amending minority and women business enterprise ordinance                     4-4.1—
C. 18                                                                                            4-4.8
1995   3-8-1995    Establishes position of deputy Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation       7-4.2;
C. 1               Department                                                                    7-4.2A
1995   3-29-1995   Amends title of Office Manager to Business Manager                            2-8.3
C. 2
1995   4-5-1995    Abolishes position of Auctioneer                                              5-5.10;
C. 3                                                                                             11-7.3
1995   5-4-1995    Amends subordinate acting temporarily for an Officer                          5-5.31
C. 4
1995   6-7-1995    Amends prohibition against loud amplification devices in motor vehicle        16-26.10;
C. 5               ordinances                                                                    16-26.11
                                                                                                 4-4.1;
                                                                                                 4-4.2;
1995   6-26-1995   Amends minority and women business enterprise                                 4-4.32;
C. 6                                                                                             4-4.4—
                                                                                                 4-4.6;
                                                                                                 4-4.8
1995   12-6-1995   Amends certain record keeping requirements                                    5-5.3
C. 7
                                                                                                 2-7.1;
                                                                                                 9-1.3;
                                                                                                 9-9.1—9-9.3;
                                                                                                 9-9.8;
1995                                                                                             9-9.9;
C. 8   12-20-1995  Amends Inspectional Services Department                                       9-9.12;
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
                                                                                                 18-1.12;
                                                                                                 18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.19;
                                                                                                 18-1.21; 18-12
1995   12-20-1995  Reiterates protection for tenants facing displacement by condo minium or      10-2 (Editor’s note)
C. 9               cooperative conversion
1996   4-3-1996    Amending rent equity ordinance relating to manufactured homes and             10-2
C. 1               manufactured homes communities
1996   4-10-1996   Adds nonemergency repair of vehicles and placement of vehicle parts on        16-37
C. 2               certain private and public property
                                                                                                 10-2.1;
1996   4-24-1996   Amends protection for tenants facing displacement by condominium or           10-2.10;
C. 3               cooperative conversions                                                       10-2.13A;
                                                                                                 10-2.13B
1996   5-8-1996    Amends Council personnel salaries                                             2-8.3
C. 4
1996   6-10-1996   Amends Registry Division fees                                                 18-1.2;
C. 5                                                                                             18-1.13
1996   6-29-1996   Transfers Motor Vehicle Management Bureau to the Property Management          7-8.1—
C. 6               Department                                                                    7-8.8
1966   7-24-1996   Amends office staff allocations                                               2-8.3
C. 7
                                                                                                 16-1.9B—
1996   10-2-1996   Amends registration of dogs; adds regulations for vicious dogs                16-1.9D;
C. 8                                                                                             16-32.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.4
1996   10-23-1996  Amends rents and evictions in mobile homes and mobile home lots               10-2.1;
C. 9                                                                                             10-2.4
1996   11-20-1996  Adds indoor air quality                                                       7-14
C. 10
1996   11-20-1996  Amends nonemergency repair of vehicles                                        16-37.1
C. 11
1996   12-4-1996   Adds newsracks                                                                16-38; repealed by Ord. No. 2008 c. 9
C. 12
1996   12-4-1996   Amends handicapped parking spaces                                             6-7.4
C. 13
1996   12-18-1996  Amends minority and women business enterprise                                 4-4.6
C. 14
1997   3-13-1997   Adds limiting tobacco access by youth                                         16-40
C. 1
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.6—
1997                                                                                             18-1.10;
C. 2   3-27-1997   Amends miscellaneous fees, fines and charges                                  18-1.12—
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.21;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
1997   5-14-1997   Adds investment of public funds with tobacco-related companies                6-3.7
C. 3
                                                                                                 12-9A.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.1;
1997   6-25-1997   Amends miscellaneous fees, fines and charges                                  18-1.2;
C. 4                                                                                             18-1.5;
                                                                                                 18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.16
1997   7-30-1997   Adds the city’s jobs and living wage ordinance                              Ch. XXIV
C. 5
1997   8-20-1997   Amends limiting tobacco access by youths                                      16-40.2
C. 6
1997   9-10-1997   Adds notification of employees regarding Municipal Ethics Law                 5-5.40
C. 7
1997   9-10-1997   Adds prohibiting skateboarding on certain public property                     16-12.37
C. 8
1997   10-1-1997   Adds sale of dangerous instruments                                            16-39
C. 9
1998                                                                                             8-9.1—
C. 1   5-20-1998   Amends regulating employers on public construction projects                   8-9.3;
                                                                                                 8-9.5
1998                                                                                             2-7.12;
C. 2   6-10-1998   Amends salary ranges                                                          2-8.1;
                                                                                                 5-5.10
1998   6-24-1998   Amends Boston jobs and living wage ordinance                                  24-2;
C. 3                                                                                             24-3 Superseded by Ord. No. 1998 c. 5
1998   7-22-1998   Amends City Council personnel; salaries                                       2-8.3
C. 4
1998   9-2-1998    Amends the city’s jobs and living wage ordinance                            Ch. XXIV
C. 5
1998   12-18-1998  Amends fines and fees of the Boston Transportation Department                 6-6.3;
C. 6                                                                                             18-1.12
1999   2-10-1999   Amends fees for city documents                                                5-1.10
C. 1
1999   2-24-1999   Adds prohibition of laser pointers                                            16-42
C. 2
1999   4-28-1999   Amends effective date of rental housing equity ordinance                      10-2.20
C. 3
1999   6-23-1999   Repeals bicycle messenger services and commercial messengers                  17-17.1—17-17.12
C. 4
1999   6-23-1999   Adds site cleanliness licenses                                                9-9.8
C. 5
1999   8-10-1999   Amends fines for unlawful posting of signs                                    16-23.1;
C. 6                                                                                             16-23.3
1999   9-15-1999   Amends Fire Prevention Code                                                   11-5
C. 7
                                                                                                 10-2.1;
1999                                                                                             10-2.10;
C. 8   10-30-1999  Amends condominium/ cooperative conversions                                   10-2.13A;
                                                                                                 10-2.13B;
                                                                                                 10-2.20
2000   3-20-2000   Regarding preparation of food                                                 16-2.6
C. 1
2000   4-19-2000   Regarding crossing gates on school buses                                      19-1.3
C. 2
2000   9-8-2000    Trespassing on private property                                               16-43
C. 3
2000   11-20-2000  Relative to banning the sale of mercury thermometers in the city              16-44
C. 5
2000   12-21-2000  Blasting                                                                      11-5.2
C. 6
2000   12-21-2000  Amending minority and women business enterprise ordinance                     4-4.8
C. 7
2001   3-20-2001   Amending the sale of dangerous instruments                                    16-39.1
C. 1
2001   5-8-2001    Amending cemetery fees                                                        7-5;
C. 2                                                                                             18-1.3
2001   5-8-2001    Amending City Council personnel; salaries                                     2-8.3
C. 3
2001   7-26-2001   Amending City Council personnel; salaries                                     2-8.3
C. 4
2001   8-6-2001    Amending City Council personnel; salaries                                     2-8.3
C. 5
2001   8-6-2001    Amending City Council personnel; salaries                                     2-8.3
C. 6
2001   8-20-2001   Establishing a task force for implementation                                  4-3
C. 7
2001                                                                                             24-2;
C. 8   10-16-2001  Amending the Boston jobs and living wage ordinance                            24-6.2;
                                                                                                 24-7.4
2001   10-16-2001  Prohibiting the sale, possession and use of fireworks                         11-5B
C. 9
2001   12-20-2001  Prohibiting the carrying of knives or similar weapons                         16-45
C. 10
2001   12-20-2001  Amending the minority and women business enterprise ordinance                 4-4.6;
C. 11                                                                                            4-4.8
2002   4-24-2002   Regarding access to city recycling programs for large residential buildings   7-13A.1—
C. 1                                                                                             7-13A.9
2002   6-5-2002    Revising certain fines and fees of the Boston Transportation Department       6-6.3
C. 2
2002                                                                                             18-1.2;
C. 3   6-5-2002    Amending fees and charges of the code of ordinances                           18-1.23;
                                                                                                 18-1B.27
2002   6-5-2002    Enhance residential parking program                                           6-6.3
C. 4
2002   6-26-2002   Revising residential parking program                                          6-6.3
C. 5
2002                                                                                             2-7.11;
C. 6   8-28-2002   Amending salary categories for certain offices                                2-8.1;
                                                                                                 5-5.10
2002   10-2-2002   Amending City Council electoral districts                                      2-9.2
C. 7
2002   10-2-2002   Vehicles for hire licensed in the city                                        16-15.5
C. 8
                                                                                                 5-5.36;
                                                                                                 6-8.4;
2002                                                                                             10-3.1;
C. 9   10-23-2002  Regarding discrimination based on gender identity or expression               10-3.3;
                                                                                                 12-9.1—
                                                                                                 12-9.7;
                                                                                                 15-10.1
2002   12-17-2002  Impoundment of vehicles                                                       6-6.6
C. 10
2002   12-17-2002  Regarding city resident preference in housing programs                        10-9
C. 11
2003   5-6-2003    Amending prohibition of skateboarding on certain public property              16-12.37
C. 1
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for obtaining certified copy of any record or registry in the   18-1.3
C. 2               custody of the City Clerk and the City Registrar
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for obtaining a certified copy of births, marriage or deaths    18-1.2
C. 3
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for obtaining certificate as to the record of a birth, marriage 18-1.2
C. 4               or death
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fee for certified copies, amendments or termination statements of a  12-9A.3
C. 5               domestic partnership statement
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for the search of birth, marriage and death records             18-1.2
C. 6
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for entry of delayed record of birth                            18-1.2
C. 7
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for amending, correcting or supplementing record of the birth,  18-1.2
C. 8               marriage or death
2003   5-6-2003    Repeal of fee for abstract copy of record of birth                            18-1.2
C. 9
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for receiving a certificate of declaration of marriage          18-1.13
C. 10              solemnized outside of Massachusetts
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fees for entering notice of intention of marriage and obtaining a    18-1.13
C. 11              certificate thereof
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fee for parking in an area designated as no parking, Zone A          6-6.3
C. 12
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fee for parking in an area designated as a loading zone              6-6.3
C. 13
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fee for parking in an area designated as no stopping/no standing     6-6.3
C. 14
2003   5-6-2003    Amending fee for parking in an area designated as a bus stop                  6-6.3
C. 15
2003   5-28-2003   Amending re-inspection of rental units                                        9-1.3
C. 16
2003   5-28-2003   Establishing noncriminal disposition of zoning violations                     16-46.1—
C. 17                                                                                            16-46.5
2003   6-30-2003   Prohibiting the sale and/or installation of a muffler cut-out or by-pass and  16-47
C. 18              prohibiting certain modifications to exhaust systems
2003                                                                                             16-26.11;
C. 19  7-14-2003   Regarding unreasonable noise                                                  16-32.4;
                                                                                                 16-32.6
2003   8-5-2003    Regarding the appointment and term of constables                              2-7.2
C. 20
2003   11-10-2003  Amending fees for applications for certificates of appropriateness/design     18-1.5
C. 21              approval to the Boston Landmarks Commission and Historic District Commissions
2003   11-18-2003  Amending lease of market stalls by Assistant Commissioner of Property         11-7.6
C. 22              Management
2003   12-22-2003  Amending fee for Commission of Constables                                     18-1.3
C. 23
2003   12-22-2003  Implementation and maintenance of a system to retain all shopping carts       16-12.8A.1—
C. 24              within a business establishment                                               16-12.8A.12 
2004   5-11-2004   Establishing fees for boat slips and moorings on city waterways               16-48.1—
C. 1                                                                                             16.48.19
2004   6-10-2004   Clarifying the Office of Assistant City Clerk                                 2-10.4;
C. 2                                                                                             5-5.10
2004   6-18-2004   Establishing a fee for access to the Boston Fire Department’s master box    18-1.13
C. 3
2004   7-14-2004   Regarding responsible pit bull ownership                                      16-1.9E.1— 16-1.9E.19, repealed by Ord. No. 2014 C. 15 11;
C. 4                                                                                             16-32.3
2004   7-8-2004    Amending Subsection 2-8.3 - City Council personnel                            2-8.3
C. 5
2004   7-14-2004   Prohibiting use of gas-powered scooters, powerboards and mini-motorbikes on   16-12.38
C. 6               sidewalks, public ways and private ways
2004   10-13-2004  Regarding the impoundment of vehicles involved in the drug trade              6-6.6
C. 7
2004   11-22-2004  Regarding the impoundment of vehicles involved in solicitation/prostitution   6-6.6
C. 8
2004   12-1-2004   Regarding the identifying jackets for valet parkers                           16-49.1—
C. 9                                                                                             16-49.9
2004   12-13-2004  Amending certain provisions of city code regarding tobacco                    16-40.2
C. 10
2004   12-13-2004  University accountability ordinance                                           10-10.1—
C. 11                                                                                            10-10.8
2004               Extending protections for tenants facing displacement by condominium or       10-2.10;
C. 12  12-23-2004  cooperative conversion and regulating future condominium or cooperative       10-2.20
                   conversion pursuant to city’s authority under st. 1983, c.527, as amended
                                                                                                 11-10.1—
2004   1-3-2005    Regarding establishing procedures for the creation, maintenance and use of    11-10.2;
C. 13              dog recreation spaces                                                         16-1.10A;
                                                                                                 18-1.4
2005   3-30-2005   To cease regulation of public street performances                             Repealing 16-12.24
C. 1
2005   4-6-2005    Regarding the use of false identification to obtain alcoholic beverages       16-12.30A
C. 2
2005   5-18-2005   Regarding protective custody for incapacitated persons                        12-4.1—
C. 3                                                                                             12-14.7
2005   8-24-2005   Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 4
2005   8-31-2005   Regarding unlicensed, unpermitted after-hours parties                         16-50.1—
C. 5                                                                                             16-50.7
2005   10-5-2005   Amending the schedule of fines for parking violations                         6-6.3
C. 6
2005   10-5-2005   Regarding CORI                                                                4-7.1—
C. 7                                                                                             4-7.9
2005   12-19-2005  Requiring property owners to remove graffiti                                  16-8.5
C. 8
2005   12-19-2005  Amending the schedule of fines for parking violations                         6-6.3
C. 9
2006   3-22-2006   Regarding local adoption of the senior citizen property tax work- off         12-3.5
C. 1               abatement
2006   4-5-2006    Regarding the fees for the inspection of smoke and carbon monoxide detector   18-1.19
C. 2               systems
2006                                                                                             2-7.11;
C. 3   5-3-2006    Amending salary categories for certain offices                                2-8.1;
                                                                                                 5-5.10
2006   6-21-2006   Regarding the registration of laboratories                                    11-5C.1—
C. 4                                                                                             11-5C.13
2006   8-23-2006   Establishing delivery standards for rental units                              9-1.4
C. 5
2006   8-23-2006   Amending salary provisions for the Assistant City Clerk                       2-10.4;
C. 6                                                                                             5-5.10
2006   10-4-2006   Regarding the Licensing Board                                                 5-5.10
C. 7
2006   10-4-2006   Regarding unregistered motor vehicles                                         16-30.1
C. 8
2006   11-29-2006  Authorizing the Commissioner of Boston Inspectional Services to issue auto    9-9.9
C. 9               shop licenses
2006   12-13-2006  Regarding public school infrastructure annual auditing                        19-3.1;
C. 10                                                                                            19-3.2
2006   12-20-2006  Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 11
2006   - -         Regarding use of traffic control signal violation monitoring system device    7-7.4
C. 12
2007   4-25-2007   Regarding fire escape certification charge                                    18-1.6
C. 1
2007   5-2-2007    Regarding imposing a fine for vandalism by graffiti or tagging                16-8.4
C. 2
2007   6-20-2007   Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 3
2007   8-1-2007    Regarding prohibiting sale and/or possession of crack pipes                   16-51.1—
C. 4                                                                                             16-51.3
2007   8-1-2007    Amending the senior citizen property tax work-off abatement                   12-3.5
C. 5
2007   8-8-2007    Regarding regulation of pedicabs and party bikes                              16-12.39;
C. 6                                                                                             16-12-40
2007   12-12-2007  Regarding the prompt and complete and abutting curb ramps                     16-12.16;
C. 7                                                                                             16-32.1
2007   10-3-2007   Regarding fine for parking with an unauthorized and/or revoked resident       6-6.3
C. 8               parking permit
                                                                                                 18-1.1;
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
2007   10-31-2007  Increasing fees for certain existing health inspection and licensure          18-1.6;
C. 9                                                                                             18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.18;
                                                                                                 18-1.20
2007   12-5-2007   Regarding penalty for rubbish disposal                                        23-22
C. 10
2007   12-12-2007  Establishing an advertising permit fee                                        18-1.1
C. 11
2007   12-12-2007  Regulating access to roof areas of buildings with residential units           9-9.13
C. 12
2008   3-3-2008    Maintenance of vacant, foreclosing residential properties                     16-52.1—
C. 1                                                                                             16-52.12
2008   5-21-2008   Cleaning of commercial cooking hood                                           16-53.1—
C. 2                                                                                             16-53.5
                                                                                                 16-32.1;
                                                                                                 16-32.6;
2008                                                                                             23-1;
C. 3   5-30-2008   Trash and refuse disposal fines                                               23-6;
                                                                                                 23-20;
                                                                                                 23-23;
                                                                                                 23-24
2008   5-30-2008   Hawkers and peddlers                                                          16-2.7;
C. 4                                                                                             16-32.6
2008   6-9-2008    Fines for illegal parking                                                     6-6.3;
C. 5                                                                                             18-1.16
2008   7-16-2008   Licensure of dogs; prohibition of dog renting                                 16-1.9C;
C. 6                                                                                             16-1.9F
2008   8-5-2008    Sound signal devices                                                          16-26.7
C. 7
2008   8-5-2008    Minority and women business enterprise initiative                             4-4.1—
C. 8                                                                                             4-4.10
2008   8-13-2008   Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 10
2008   9-16-2008   Permits for street work                                                       11-6.9
C. 11
2008   10-15-2008  Fees for charitable food establishments                                       18-1.6
C. 12
2008   10-28-2008  Carrying of machetes                                                          16-45.1;
C. 13                                                                                            16-45.2
2008   10-28-2008  Recycling requirements for waste haulers                                      7-13.8.1—
C. 14                                                                                            7-13.8.8
2008   11-4-2008   Public donation collection bins                                               9-9.8
C. 15
2008   12-12-2008  Fees and charges for Faneuil Hall                                             18-1.8
C. 16
2008   12-23-2008  Departmental reporting to Retirement Board                                    5-5.41
C. 17
2009   3-19-2009   Prohibiting salvia divinorum                                                  16-54.1—
C. 1                                                                                             16-54.4
2009   5-19-2009   Requiring City Councilors to file statements of financial interests           2-14.1—
C. 2                                                                                             2-14.4
2009   5-27-2009   Sidewalk café lease periods                                                  11-6.3
C. 3
2009   6-9-2009    Noise level of motorcycles                                                    16-47
C. 4
2009   7-15-2009   Youth crime statistics reporting                                              11-1.1
C. 5
2009   7-15-2009   Non-criminal disposition of sign violations                                   16-46.3;
C. 6                                                                                             16-46.4
2009   8-5-2009    Parking in marked bike lane or marked shared bike lane                        16-12.41
C. 7
2009   10-6-2009   Increasing university accountability                                          10-10.3;
C. 8                                                                                             10-10.4
2009   12-15-2009  Extending protections for tenants facing displacement by condominium          10-2.20
C. 9               conversion
2010   3-3-2010    Requiring registration of certain armed security guards and licensure as      17-17
C. 1               special police Officers
2010   3-29-2010   Prohibiting parking or stopping within any pedestrian safety zone             16-12.42
C. 2
2010   6-22-2010   To increase fees for certain existing building regulation licenses            9-9.8
C. 3
2010   6-22-2010   Increase fines for illegal parking and increase fees for meter removal and    6-6.3;
C. 4               reinstallation                                                                18-1.13
                                                                                                 18-1.2;
                                                                                                 18-1.5—
2010               Increase fees for certain building division inspection and licensure          18-1.7;
C. 5   6-22-2010   requirements                                                                  18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.19—
                                                                                                 18.1.21;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
2010   8-10-2010   Public Works Department                                                       11-6.1
C. 6
2010                                                                                             16-52.3;
C. 7   10-25-2010  Regulating maintenance of vacant, foreclosing residential properties          16-52.4;
                                                                                                 16-52.9
2010   11-9-2010   Adoption of procedures for payment of certain municipal fines                 16-55
C. 8
2010   12-22-2010  Additional reporting requirements of the Boston Employment Commission         Repealed by Ordinance No. 2017 C. 1
C. 9
2010   12-22-2010  Building permit fees for construction of solar photovoltaic systems           18-1.2
C. 10
2010   12-22-2010  Increase fees for lighting of parks and recreation playing fields             18-1.16
C. 11
2010   12-22-2010  Security in elderly/handicapped housing developments; crime prevention        9-11.4;
C. 12              surveys                                                                       11-1.7
2011   3-2-2011    Sheet metal work permit fee                                                   18-1.19
C. 1
2011   3-23-2011   Fingerprinting and criminal history records checks for certain licenses       11-1.8;
C. 2                                                                                             16-A2
2011   3-23-2011   Street or parkway opening permit fee                                          18-1.19
C. 3
2011   3-23-2011   Insurance bond requirement for                                                11-6.16;
C. 4                                                                                             18-1.16
2011   4-6-2011    Mobile food trucks                                                            17-10.1—
C. 5                                                                                             17-10.13
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.6—
2011                                                                                             18-1.10;
C. 6   4-27-2011   Fees for fire inspection and licensure                                        18-1.12—
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.21;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
2011   6-7-2011    Senior citizen property tax work- off                                         12-3.5
C. 7
2011   6-15-2011   Personal assistive mobility devices                                           16-12.38A.1—
C. 8                                                                                             16-12.38A.10
2011   7-13-2011   Penalties for chronic problem properties                                      16-56
C. 9
2011   7-13-2011   Nuisance precipitated by problem properties                                   16-57.1—
C. 10                                                                                            16-57.10
2011   7-13-2011   Limiting tobacco access by youth                                              16-40.2;
C. 11                                                                                            16-40.5
2011   10-6-2011   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks and abutting curb ramps                   16-12.16
C. 13
2011   11-9-2011   Notification to Fire Department regarding discontinuance of electrical        11-4.8
C. 14              service to residential properties
2011   12-14-2011  Licensing of stores that sell certain knives                                  16-39.4
C. 15
2011   12-21-2011  Increasing cemetery fees                                                      18-1.3
C. 16
2011   12-21-2011  Amending rental housing equity as it relates to eviction procedures           10-2.9
C. 17
2012   4-11-2012   Regarding marriages performed by certain city officials                       2-10.1
C. 1
2012   5-23-2012   Establish Boston Cultural Council                                             Repealed by Ordinance No. 2024. C. 5
C. 2
2012   6-6-2012    Over-the air devices (“OTARD”)                                            16-58.1—
C. 3                                                                                             16-58.7
2012   6-11-2012   Use of City Hall plaza                                                        11-7.14;
C. 4                                                                                             18-1.3
2012   8-22-2012   Concussions and sports-related head injuries affecting athletes in city       12-15.1—
C. 5               elementary, middle and secondary schools and certain athletic associations    12.15.3
2012   10-31-2012  Amending City Council electoral districts                                     2-9.2
C. 6
2012   12-17-2012  Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 7
2012   12-19-2012  Nuisance control                                                              16-27.1—
C. 8                                                                                             16-27.7
2012   12-19-2012  Inspection and re-inspection of rental units                                  9-1.3
C. 9
2013   2-27-2013   Regulating manner and place of solicitation                                   16-41.1—
C. 1                                                                                             16.41.5
2013   3-6-2013    Increasing the penalty for certain violations                                 16-39.4
C. 2
2013   3-6-2013    Regarding the naming of buildings                                             8-11.0
C. 3
2013   3-27-2013   Amending placement and maintenance of newsracks                               16-38.1—
C. 4                                                                                             16-38.12
2013   5-8-2013    Amending reporting and disclosing of energy and water efficiency of buildings 7-2.2
C. 5
2013   6-26-2013   Decreasing fees for lighting of parks and recreation playing fields           18-1.16
C. 6
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.6;
                                                                                                 18-1.8;
2013                                                                                             18-1.10;
C. 7   7-31-2013   Fees for certain City Clerk services                                          18-1.13;
                                                                                                 18-1.14;
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.20;
                                                                                                 18-1.22
2013   9-18-2013   Establishing problem properties task force                                    9-13.1
C. 8
2013   9-18-2013   Amending Municipal Banking Commission and providing for responsible banking   6-8.1—
C. 9               practices in the City of Boston                                               6-8.10
2013   11-20-2013  Promoting clean and healthy parks                                             7-4.14
C. 10
                                                                                                 16-8.5;
2014   4-28-2014   Amendments to certain environmental ordinances                                16-30.1;
C. 1                                                                                             16-52.1;
                                                                                                 23-23
2014   5-14-2014   Amending the building energy reporting and disclosure ordinance               7-2.2
C. 2
2014   5-27-2014   Amending inspection and re-inspection of rental units                         9-1.3
C. 3
2014   6-20-2014   Amending salary categories for certain offices                                5-5.10
C. 4
2014   6-20-2014   Amending residency and voting requirements for certain Officers               5-5.2
C. 5
2014   6-27-2014   Regarding gender identity nondiscrimination in health care coverage for city  5-5.42
C. 6               employees
2014   8-15-2014   Amending the Fire Prevention Code                                             11-5.1
C. 7
2014   8-25-2014   Amending university accountability                                            10-10.2—
C. 8                                                                                             10-10.4
2014   8-25-2014   Boston Trust Act                                                              11-1.9
C. 9
2014   8-25-2014   Amending City Council personnel salaries                                      2-8.3
C. 10
2014   8-25-2014   Prohibiting the selling, leasing or reserving of public ways                  16-12.43
C. 11
2014   8-25-2014   Amending living wage ordinance advisory committee                             24-8.2
C. 12
2014   9-18-2014   College athlete head injury gameday protocol                                  12-15.4
C.13
2014   11-5-2014   Requiring city vendors to safeguard unprotected road users                    4-8.1—
C. 14                                                                                            4-8.10
                                                                                                 2-4.1;
                                                                                                 11-10.2;
                                                                                                 14-5—
                                                                                                 14-5.1;
                                                                                                 16-1.9A;
                                                                                                 16-1.9B—
2014   12-19-2014  Concerning the registration and licensing of dogs                             16-1.9B.2;
C. 15                                                                                            16-1.9C;
                                                                                                 16-1.9D;
                                                                                                 16-1.9F.4;
                                                                                                 16-1.9F.5;
                                                                                                 16-1.10;
                                                                                                 16-32.3;
                                                                                                 18-1.4; repealing 16-1.9E
2014               Extending protections for tenants facing displacement by condominium or       10-2.1;
C. 16  12-19-2014  cooperative conversion                                                        10-2.10;
                                                                                                 10-2.20
2015   1-7-2015    Salary of Councillors                                                         2-8.3
C. 1
2015   4-8-2015    Schedule of parking fines                                                     6-6.3
C. 2
2015   4-29-2015   Paid parental leave                                                           5-5.20
C. 3
2015   5-20-2015   Schedule of parking fines                                                     6-6.3
C. 4
2015   5-13-2015   Diesel emissions reductions                                                   7-2.3
C. 5
2015   8-12-2015   Prohibiting possession or sale of synthetic cannabinoids and illicit          16-59.1—
C. 6               synthetic drugs                                                               16-59.7
2015   9-2-2015    Smokeless tobacco and other tobacco products prohibited at sites for          7-4.15
C. 7               professional and amateur baseball and other sporting events
2015   9-2-2015    Recreational vehicles                                                         16-60.1
C. 8
2015   10-28-2015  Salary of Mayor/City Council                                                  2-7.11;
C. 9                                                                                             2-8.1
2015   10-28-2015  Regulating replica firearms                                                   16-5B.1—
C. 10                                                                                            16-5B.4
2015   11-18-2015  Regulating advertising                                                        16-12.3
C. 11
2015   12-16-2015  Regulating patrons bringing own alcoholic beverages onto premises             17-18.1
C.12
2015   12-16-2015  Schedule of parking fines                                                     6-6.3
C. 13
2016   3-2-2016    Regulating sale of animals                                                    16-1.9G
C. 1
2016                                                                                             5-5.2;
C. 2   3-11-2016   Regulating residency requirements                                             5-5.3;
                                                                                                 5-10.1
2016   3-28-2016   Collection of records                                                         10-10.3;
C. 3                                                                                             10-10.4
2016   3-28-2016   Regulating student housing                                                    9-9.14
C. 4
2016   3-28-2016   Schedule of parking fines                                                     6-6.3
C. 5
2016   3-23-2016   Fire Prevention Code                                                          11-5.1
C. 7
2016                                                                                             16-26.4;
C. 8   5-25-2016   Regulation of construction hours                                              18-1.15;
                                                                                                 18-1.19
                                                                                                 11-5C.8;
                                                                                                 18-1.1—
                                                                                                 18-1.4;
                                                                                                 18-1.6—
2016   6-15-2016   Fees for Fire Department services                                             18-1.10;
C. 9                                                                                             18-1.12—
                                                                                                 18-1.16;
                                                                                                 18-1.18—
                                                                                                 18-1.21;
                                                                                                 18-1.23
2016   6-15-2016   Senior citizen property tax work- off abatement                               12-3.5
C. 10
2016   8-8-2016    Boston Cultural Council                                                       Repealed by Ordinance No. 2024 C. 5
C. 12
2016   8-3-2016    Language and communication access for city services                           6-10.1
C. 13
2016   8-31-2016   Regulating inspectional services letter grading of food establishments and    16-61.1—
C. 14              food trucks                                                                   16-61.5
2016   11-21-2016  Commission for Persons with Disabilities                                      12-4.3
C. 15
2016   12-20-2016  Application for building permits                                              18-1.2
C. 16
2016   12-20-2016  Regulating signs                                                              16-12.3
C. 17
2016                                                                                             5-5.30;
C. 18  12-20-2016  Regulating permits                                                            16-A1.1;
                                                                                                 16-A1.2
2016   12-21-2016  Acoustic live entertainment                                                   17-19.1
C. 19
2016   12-23-2016  Management and elimination of natural gas leaks                               13-1.1—
C. 20                                                                                            13-1.5
2016   12-27-2016  Street occupancy permit program                                               16-12.2A;
C. 21                                                                                            18-1.16
                                                                                                 8-9.1—
2017   1-25-2017   Boston residents jobs policy and Boston Employment Commission                 8-9.4;
C. 1                                                                                             8-9.8—
                                                                                                 8-9.11
2017   5-24-2017   Departmental revolving funds                                                  6-9.1—
C. 2                                                                                             6-9.5
2017   6-21-2017   Fire Prevention Code                                                          11-5.1
C. 3
2017   8-2-2017    Community Preservation Committee                                              8-12.1—
C. 4                                                                                             8-12.8
2017   10-25-2017  Appointments to the Community Preservation Committee                          8-12.6
C. 5
2017   11-29-2017  Senior citizen property tax work- off abatement                               12-3.5
C. 6
2017                                                                                             4-4.2—
C. 7   12-13-2017  Promoting equity in contracts                                                 4-4.4;
                                                                                                 4-4.6
2017   12-13-2017  Acoustic live entertainment                                                   17-19.1
C. 8
2017   12-13-2017  Reduction of plastic bags                                                     17-20.1—
C. 9                                                                                             17-20.7
2018   4-11-2018   Access to voter registration                                                  11-11.1;
C. 1                                                                                             11-11.2
2018   5-16-2018   Regulation of advertising                                                     16-12.3
C. 2
2018   5-16-2018   Solar Renewable Energy Certificates Revolving Fund                            6-9.5 
C. 3
2018   6-6-2018    Schedule of parking fines                                                     6-6.3
C. 4
2018   6-13-2018   Short term residential rentals                                                9-14.1—
C. 5                                                                                             9.14.2
                                                                                                 2-7.11;
2018   6-27-2018   Salary categories for Mayor, City Council and certain offices                 2-8.1;
C. 6                                                                                             5-5.10;
                                                                                                 9-9.1
2018   6-27-2018   Salaries                                                                      2-8.3
C. 7
2018   9-26-2018   Delivery vehicles; remove surety bond; create parkway or street occupancy     11-6.16;
C. 8               permit                                                                        18-1.16
2018   9-26-2018   Lobbyist registration and regulation                                          2-15.1—
C. 9                                                                                             2-15.5
2018   11-7-2018   Residential tax title payment agreements                                      6-3.13
C. 10
2019   3-20-2019   Good food purchasing standards                                                4-9.1—
C. 1                                                                                             4-9.6
2019   4-10-2019   Requiring review of precincts                                                 2-9.2
C. 2
2019   3-27-2019   Establishing the authority of the Boston Transportation Department to         17-21.1—
C. 3               regulate shared mobility businesses                                           17-21.8
                                                                                                 6-9.5;
                                                                                                 7-9.1;
                                                                                                 16-1.9B;
2019   6-5-2019    Registration and licensing of dogs                                            16-1.9C;
C. 4                                                                                             16-1.9F;
                                                                                                 16-1.9G;
                                                                                                 16-32.2;
                                                                                                 18-1.4
2019   11-20-2019  Establishing equitable regulation of the cannabis industry                    8-13.1—
C. 5                                                                                             8-13.17
2019   12-4-2019   Reauthorizing condominium conversion protections                              10-2.20
C. 6
2019   12-4-2019   After-hours inspections by the inspectional services Department               18-1.1
C. 7
2019   12-11-2019  Protecting local wetlands promoting climate change adaptation                 7-1.4
C. 8
2019   12-11-2019  Boston Trust Act amendments                                                   11-1.9
C. 9
2020   2-12-2020   Registration and reporting requirements                                       2-15.3
C. 1
2020   6-24-2020   Banning face surveillance technology                                          16-62
C. 2
2020   9-30-2020   Public Improvement Commission                                                 8-7.1;
C. 3                                                                                             8-7.2
2020   10-21-2020  Establishing safe sharps disposal program                                     12-16.1—
C. 4                                                                                             12-16.6
2020   10-21-2020  Establishing Housing Stability Notification Act                               10-11.1—
C. 5                                                                                             10.11.7
2020   12-16-2020  Reauthorizing condominium conversion protections                              10-2.20
C. 6
2020   12-16-2020  Establishing the office of police accountability and transparency             12-17.1—
C. 7                                                                                             12-17.20
2020   12-16-2020  Establishing gender inclusion on city forms                                   6-11
C. 8
2021   1-27-2021   Reauthorizing condominium conversion protections                              10-2.20
C. 1
2021   2-2-2021    Creating a special Commission on ending family homelessness                   12-18.1—
C. 2                                                                                             12-18.3
                                                                                                 10-2.1;
2021   1-25-2021   Protections for tenants facing displacement by condominium or cooperative     10-2.10;
C. 3               conversion                                                                    10-2.18;
                                                                                                 10-2.20
2021   3-31-2021   Establishing guidelines for permitting retail residential kitchens            9-9.15
C. 4
2021   4-28-2021   Restricting the use of chemical crowd control agents and kinetic impact       11-1.10
C. 5               projectiles
2021   6-30-2021   Salaries                                                                      2-8.3
C. 6
2021   - -2021     Amending required notice for housing services                                 10-11.4
C. 7
                                                                                                 8-13.3;
2021   8-18-2021   Ensuring equitable regulation of the cannabis industry                        8-13.4;
C. 8                                                                                             8-13.6;
                                                                                                 8-13.8
2021   8-18-2021   Language and communication access for city services                           6-10.1
C. 9
2021   3-31-2021   Paid parental leave                                                           5-5.20
C. 10
2021   - -2021     Creating a Commission on Black Men and Boys                                   15-11.1—
C. 11                                                                                            15-11.3
2021   9-15-2021   Providing for prepaid return envelopes for mail-in voting                     2-3.4
C. 12
2021   9-22-2021   Building energy reporting and disclosure                                      7-2.1;
C. 13                                                                                            7-2.2
2021   10-20-2021  Surveillance oversight and information sharing                                16-63.1—
C. 14                                                                                            16-63.9
2021   11-17-2021  Investments of the city treasury                                              6-3.7;
C. 15                                                                                            6-3.7.2
2021   8-13-2021   Legal representation of Boston Groundwater Trust                              5-8.1
C. 16
                                                                                                 24-1—
                                                                                                 24-3;
2021   – -2021   City jobs and living wage ordinance                                           24-5;
C. 17                                                                                            24-7;
                                                                                                 24-10;
                                                                                                 24-11
2021   12-15-2021  Creating a taskforce to address literacy rates                                15-12.1—
C. 18                                                                                            15-12.4
2021   12-13-2021  Creating the Boston Commemoration Commission                                  7-15.1—
C. 19                                                                                            7-15.3
2022   2-16-2022   Amending Commission on Black Men and Boys                                     15-11.2
C. 1
2022   3-30-2022   Targeted residential picketing                                                16-64
C. 2
2022   6-29-2022   City Council personnel salaries                                               2-8.3
C. 3
2022   6-29-2022   Inspection of exterior walls and appurtenances                                9-9.12
C. 4
2022   7-13-2022   The Boston Fair Chance Act                                                    15-10—
C. 5                                                                                             15-10.6
2022   8-10-2022   Creating guidelines for display of flags on City Hall property                1-3A—
C. 6                                                                                             1-3A.4
2022   9-28-2022   Surveillance Oversight Advisory Board Use Policy                              16-63.3
C. 7
2022                                                                                             2-7.11;
C. 8   10-5-2022   Salary categories for Mayor, City Council, and certain offices                2-8.1;
                                                                                                 5-5.10
2022   11-2-2022   Amending City Council electoral districts                                     2-9.2
C. 9
2022                                                                                             2-7.11;
C. 10  11-2-2022   Salary categories for Mayor, City Council and certain Offices                 2-8.1;
                                                                                                 5-5.10
2022   12-7-2022   Adding provisions for closed captioning activation                            12-4.10
C. 11
2022   12-14-2022  Creating task force on the study on City of Boston reparations to the         15-13—
C. 12              descendants of formerly enslaved black people                                 15-13.3
2022   12-14-2022  Adding options for chosen name on city forms                                  6-11
C. 13
2023   1-11-2023   Salary amendment                                                              2-8.3
C. 1
2023   2-10-2023   Office of Participatory Budgeting                                             5-1.11.1—
C. 2                                                                                             5-1.11.9
2023   3-22-2023   Amending Bay Village Historic District                                        7-3.5
C. 3
2023   4-26-2023   Special election precincting for District 8                                   2-9.3
C. 4
2023   5-24-2023   Amending City Council electoral districts                                     2-9.2
C. 5
2023   5-24-2023   Construction and demolition operations                                        16-65.1—
C. 6                                                                                             16-65.9
2023   7-19-2023   Salary amendment                                                              2-8.3
C. 7
2023   10-4-2023   Office of Cultural Affairs for Public Health and Welfare                      12-20.1—
C. 8                                                                                             12-20.4
2023   10-25-2023  Unlawful camping on public property                                           16-66.1—
C. 9                                                                                             16-66.11
2023   10-4-2023   Office of Immigrant Advancement for Public Health and Welfare                 12-19.1—
C. 10                                                                                            12-19.4
2023   11-1-2023   Gender inclusion on City forms                                                6-11
C. 11
2023   11-15-2023  Illegal firearm trafficking                                                   11-1.11
C. 12
2023   12-6-2023   Sale of guinea pigs in pet shops                                              16-1.9G.1—
C. 13                                                                                            16-1.9G.3
2023   12-13-2023  Protection of the tree canopy                                                 7-4.7;
C. 14                                                                                            7-4.8
2024   3-6-2024    Honey bees                                                                    16-1.27
C. 1
2024   3-27-2024   Older adult property tax work-off abatement                                   12-3.5
C. 2
2024   3-27-2024   Planning Department                                                           8-14.1—
C. 3                                                                                             8-14.9
2024   7-15-2024   Salary amendment                                                              2-8.3
C. 4
2024   9-18-2024   Reestablishing Boston Cultural Council                                        5-9.1—
C. 5                                                                                             5-9.7
2024   10-2-2024   Commission on Black Men and Boys                                              15-11.1—
C. 6                                                                                             15-11.4
2024   11-16-2024  Restrictions on park frontages                                                7-4.10
C. 7
 
