VILLAGE CODE
of
ANGEL FIRE, NEW MEXICO
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-14, passed 8-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Angel Fire, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-14, passed August 12, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2025-08
 
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE NEW MEXICO UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY
THE VILLAGE OF ANGEL FIRE, NEW MEXICO; ESTABLISHING A PENALTY ASSESSMENT
PROGRAM; DEFINING PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS; ESTABLISHING A LISTED
SCHEDULE OF PENALTY ASSESSMENTS; AND REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES OR PARTS OF
ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT THEREOF.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE VILLAGE OF ANGEL FIRE, NEW MEXICO.
 
SECTION 1.
 
This Ordinance may be cited as the Village of Angel Fire, New Mexico Penalty
Assessment Program.
 
SECTION 2.
 
A.   As used in the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance adopted by the Village
of Angel Fire, New Mexico, and pursuant to NMSA 1978, 66-8-116, “penalty
assessment misdemeanor” means violation of the following listed sections of the
New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance, for which the listed penalty assessment
is established:
      
                                                                                           PENALTY
COMMON NAME OF OFFENSE                                    SECTION
VIOLATED       ASSESSMENT
 
 
BICYCLE LAWS   12-8-1 and 12-8-25   $25.00
 
PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS   12-5-7   $ 60.00   
 
FLASHING SIGNALS   12-5-8    $60.00
 
DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS,
   SIGNALS OR MARKINGS   12-5-10   $60.00   
 
SPEED REGULATIONS   12-6-1
 
(1)   Up to and including ten miles an hour
over speed limit       $60.00
 
(2)   From eleven up to and including fifteen
miles an hour over speed limit       $90.00
 
(3)   From sixteen up to and including twenty
miles an hour over speed limit       $122.00
   
(4)   From twenty-one up to and including twenty-
five miles an hour over the speed limit       $156.00
 
(5)   From twenty-six up to and including thirty
miles an hour over the speed limit       $181.00
 
(6)   From thirty-one up to and including thirty-
five miles an hour over the speed limit       $205.00
 
(7)   More than thirty-five miles an hour over
the speed limit       Court Appearance
 
MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS   12-6-1.5    $55.00
OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT   12-6-2.3    $75.00
LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT   12-6-2.4    $75.00
NO PASSING ZONES & RESTRICTIONS ON PASSING   12-6-2.7    $75.00
FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY   12-6-2.13    $75.00
DRIVING ON DIVIDED STREETS   12-6-2.14    $75.00
VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION   12-6-4.1    $75.00
VEHICLES TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION   12-6-4.2    $75.00
VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION   12-6-4.3   $75.00
LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND   12-6-5.5    $75.00
STARTING PARKED VEHICLE   12-6-5.7    $75.00
TURNING & STOPPING MOVEMENTS AND
REQUIRED SIGNALS   12-6-5.8    $75.00
STOPPING, STANDING & PARKING   12-6-6    $55.00
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED   12-6-7    $75.00
 
STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS   12-6-7.3    $350.00
OPERATORS & CHAUFFEURS MUST BE LICENSED   12-6-12.6    $75.00
LIMITATIONS ON BACKING   12-6-12.13    $75.00
RESTRICTION ON USE OF VIDEO IN MOTOR VEHICLES   12-6-12.15   $75.00
COASTING PROHIBITED   12-6-12.16   $75.00
DESTRUCTIVE OR INJURIOUS MATERIAL
ON ROADWAY   12-6-13.5   $100.00
ANIMALS ON STREET   12-6-13.10   $75.00
DRIVING ON MOUNTAIN STREETS   12-6-13.11   $75.00
CHILD NOT IN RESTRAINT DEVICE OR SAFETY BELT   12-6-13.12    $95.00
MANDATORY USE OF SEAT BELTS   12-6-13.13    $95.00
POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES IN OPEN CONTAINERS-
FIRST OFFENSE   12-6-13.14    $95.00
LITTERING   12-6-13.15   $155.00
PEDESTRIAN VIOLATION   12-6-14   $55.00
PEDESTRIANS RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS 12-6-14.2   $55.00
PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK   12-6-14.3   $55.00
CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS   12-6-14.4   $55.00
PEDESTRIANS ON STREETS   12-6-14.5   $55.00
DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE   12-6-14.8    $75.00
PARKING IN DESIGNATED DISABLED PARKING SPACES   12-9-9    $280.00
PROHIBITED ACTS WHILE DRIVING   12-10-1.1   $75.00
WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED   12-10-1.3    $80.00
HEADLAMPS ON VEHICLES   12-10-1.5    $80.00
DIMMING OF LIGHTS   12-10-1.6    $80.00
TAIL LAMPS   12-10-1.7    $80.00
VEHICLES TO BE EQUIPPED WITH REFLECTORS   12-10-1.8   $55.00
MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE   12-10-1.10    $75.00
LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD   12-10-1.11    $75.00
WINDSHIELD MUST BE UNOBSTRUCTED
AND EQUIPPED WITH WIPERS; WINDOWS
MUST BE TRANSPARENT; EXCEPTIONS   12-10-1.12   $75.00
 
SUN SCREENING MATERIALS ON WINDSHIELDS
AND WINDOWS; REQUIREMENTS; VIOLATIONS
PENALTY    12-10-1.13   $75.00
 
DISPLAY OF CURRENT VALID REGISTRATION PLATE   12-10-4.1   Court Appearance
EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION TO BE SIGNED AND
EXHIBITED ON DEMAND   12-10-5    $75.00
 
VEHICLE SUBJECT TO REGISTRATION   12-10-4   Court Appearance
 
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE ADMINISTRATIVELY    12-6-12.10   Court Appearance
SUSPENDED
 
 
 
 
PENALTY ASSESSMENTS RELATING TO OHV’S
 
Registration   12-7-9.1A $75.00
No Driver’s License   12-7-9.2 C3 Court Appearance
No Insurance   12-7-9.2 C4 Court Appearance
Operation on Private Land   12-7-9.4 Court Appearance
Under 18, no helmet or eye protection   12-7-9.9 B1 $75.00
Under 18 without safety permit   12-7-9.9 B2 $75.00
Under 18 carrying a passenger    12-7-9.9 B3 $75.00
Careless/reckless operation   12-7-9.9 A1 $200.00
Operator not wearing eye protection (over 18)   12-7-9.2 C5 $75.00
Operation on Highways prohibited   12-7-9.9 A12 $75.00
 
* All other violations not listed can be found in the UTO book and are
mandatory court appearances.
 
 
B.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any violation
which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting in injury
or death to any person.
 
C.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects to
accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon a later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment misdemeanor, and no probation imposed
upon a suspended or deferred sentence shall exceed ninety days.
 
D.   The penalty assessment for speeding in violation of Section 12-6-1.2 (5)
of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is twice the penalty assessment established in
Subsection A of Section 2 of this ordinance for the equivalent miles per hour
over the speed limit.
 
 
SECTION 3. PENALTY ASSESSMENT MISDEMEANORS; OPTION; EFFECT
 
A.   Unless a warning notice is given, at the time of making an arrest for any
penalty assessment misdemeanor, the arresting officer shall offer the alleged
violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment. The violator's signature
on the penalty assessment notice constitutes an acknowledgement of guilt of the
offense stated in the notice, and payment of the prescribed penalty assessment
is a complete satisfaction of the violation.
 
   B.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail to the Angel
Fire Municipal Court, PO Box 610, Angel Fire, New Mexico 87710, or in person
during business hours at 27B Halo Pines, Angel Fire, NM 87110, within thirty
(30) days from the date of arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely
if postmarked within the time limits set from the date of arrest. The Traffic
Violations Bureau shall issue a receipt when a penalty assessment is paid by
currency, but checks tendered by the violator, upon which payment is received,
are a sufficient receipt.
 
C.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as evidence in
any court in any civil action.
 
SECTION 4. FAILURE TO PAY PENALTY ASSESSMENT
 
   A.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of arrest, the violator shall be prosecuted for the violation charged on
the penalty assessment notice in a manner as if the penalty assessment notice
had not been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, the court shall
impose penalties as provided by the New Mexico Uniform Traffic Ordinance
(Section 12-12- 1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the
particular offense charged, and the scheduled penalty assessments shall not
apply.
 
   B.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in Section 4A, it is a
misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty assessment to fail
to do so within thirty (30) days from the date of arrest.
 
D.   The Office of the Municipal Court shall notify the Motor Vehicle Division
of the State of New Mexico when a person fails to pay a penalty assessment
within the required period of time. The Motor Vehicle Division shall report the
notice upon the driver's record and shall not renew the person's license to
drive until the Municipal Court notifies the Motor Vehicle Division that the
penalty assessment, or its equivalent, as well as any additional penalties
imposed, are properly disposed of.
 
SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY
 
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or any portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
 
SECTION 6. ORDINANCES REPEALED
 
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE
 
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication as provided by law.
 
 
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED THIS 9th day of September 2025.
 
 
___________________________________________________
Village of Angel Fire Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ec498b7854a16436e4c9df9026a8848fad467b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1740.gif]
Village of Angel Fire Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4-3-8: RATE PAYER CLASSIFICATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Assessments And Fees Applicable To Property Owners And Registered
Businesses: There is assessed against every person owning any improved real
property or holding a business registration in the village, monthly, and other
special refuse collection and disposal fees payable to the village. (Ord. 2001-
08, 7-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Classification and Obligations Established: Classification and
obligations are described herein, and the following classifications for
municipal solid waste collection, transportation, and disposal are hereby
established for customers within the village service area:
      1.   Residences: A solid waste fee shall be billed monthly to, and paid
monthly by, each person owning improved real property (residential).
      2.   Hotels: A solid waste fee per hotel unit shall be billed monthly to,
and paid monthly by, each person owning or controlling such hotel units. (Ord.
2001-08, 7-27-2001)
      3.   Commercial Businesses:
         a.   A monthly fee shall be billed monthly to, and paid monthly by,
each person occupying a commercial business which produces or could produce
solid waste, and/or those commercial businesses holding a business
registration. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   Customers who currently have or in the future make an application
for a commercial charge account will be billed an annual fee for the purpose of
partially defraying the costs of billing and collections.
      4.   Tires: A special tire disposal fee shall be billed to, and paid by,
each person or company disposing of tires unless tires are cut into quarters (4
equal pieces).
      5.   Use Of Transfer Facilities:
         a.   Any person using a personal passenger vehicle or light truck and
attached trailer may transport mixed residential solid waste to the village
transfer facility; provided that such waste has been generated from a residence
located within the boundaries of responsibility for the village solid waste
collection, and further provided that the disposer satisfies the conditions of
service defined in this chapter.
         b.   Any person using a commercial or other vehicle may transport
mixed nonresidential waste to the village transfer facility; provided that such
waste has been generated within the boundaries of responsibility for the
village solid waste collection, that it is conveyed as required by this
chapter, and further provided that the disposer satisfies the conditions of
service defined in this chapter. The fee for this service shall be based upon
the volume of the material disposed of.
         c.   All solid waste delivered to the village solid waste facility
must be secured by means of a tarp, rope, or straps to prevent the scattering,
blowing, dropping, spillage or any other form of littering on any public right
of way. Any load brought to the facility that is not secured so as to prevent
any type of littering will be charged double the disposal fee. During the
village's free disposal weeks, any unsecured load will be charged double the
normal fee for slash disposal.
   C.   Free Service: No village service related to solid waste shall be
provided without charge except as provided by this chapter, as approved by the
council, or through a court order or settlement. No amounts owed may be abated.
Village billings determined to be in error will be corrected.
   D.   Rental Properties: Owners in charge of rental property shall be
responsible for the payment of the charges assessed in this chapter, and such
properties shall be subject to the lien and other collection provisions of this
chapter. Delinquency notices will be sent to both the landlord and the renter.
(Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
   E.   Applicable Taxes Included With Bill: All applicable taxes will be
included in the monthly bill as allowed by the gross receipts and compensating
tax act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-9-4. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001;
amd. 2003 Code)
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2003-06
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE ANGEL FIRE, NM VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and village council of the village of Angel Fire,
New Mexico, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Angel Fire, New Mexico prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc. containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the village as enacted by the mayor and village
council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ec498b7854a16436e4c9df9026a8848fad467b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1445.png]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the village council, this village code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Angel Fire.
This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ANGEL FIRE
VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this village code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the village code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village council. (2003
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this village code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the village code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this village code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this village code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this village code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The village council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this village code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this village code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this village code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has
been changed in the content of this village code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The village code of the village of Angel Fire.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the council of the village of Angel Fire,
New Mexico.
COUNTY: The county of Colfax, state of New Mexico.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village of Angle Fire".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
GOVERNING BODY: The village council of the village of Angel Fire.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NMSA: New Mexico Statutes Annotated.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Angel Fire".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of New Mexico.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, county of Colfax, state of New Mexico.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Maximum Penalty
1-4-2: Court Costs; Collection; Purpose
1-4-3: Suspended Sentence; Probation; Community Service
1-4-4: Application Of Provisions
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: MAXIMUM PENALTY:
Unless maximum penalty or a specific penalty is established by ordinance for a
particular offense, the maximum penalty for violation of any municipal
ordinance shall be as follows:
   A.   Except for those violations of ordinances described in subsections B
and C of this section, a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days or both;
   B.   For violations of an ordinance prohibiting driving a motor vehicle
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, a fine of not more
than nine hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00) or imprisonment for not more
than one hundred seventy nine (179) days or both; and
   C.   For violations of an industrial user wastewater pretreatment ordinance
as required by the United States environmental protection agency, a fine of not
more than nine hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00) a day for each violation.
(Ord. 2002-10, 10-16-2002)
1-4-2: COURT COSTS; COLLECTION; PURPOSE:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Effective July 1, 2003, every municipality shall enact an
ordinance requiring assessment of corrections fees, judicial education fees and
court automation fees to be collected as court costs and used as provided in
this section. The fees are to be collected upon conviction from persons
convicted of violating any ordinance relating to the operation of a motor
vehicle or any ordinance that may be enforced by the imposition of a term of
imprisonment.
A municipal judge shall collect the following costs:
      1.   A corrections fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) 1
      2.   A judicial education fee of three dollars ($3.00); and
      3.   A court automation fee of six dollars ($6.00). (Ord. 2009-03, 8-4-
2009)
   B.   Definition Of Convicted: As used in this chapter, "convicted" means the
defendant has been found guilty of a criminal charge by a municipal judge,
either after trial, a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere.
   C.   Disposition And Use Of Fees Collected:
      1.   All money collected pursuant to subsection A1 of this section shall
be deposited in a special fund in the municipal treasury and shall be used for:
         a.   Municipal jailer or juvenile detention officer training;
         b.   The construction planning, construction, operation and
maintenance of a municipal jail or juvenile detention facility;
         c.   Paying the cost of housing municipal prisoners in a county jail
or detention facility or housing juveniles in a detention facility;
         d.   Complying with match or contribution requirements for the receipt
of federal funds relating to jails or juvenile detention facilities;
         e.   Providing inpatient treatment or other substance abuse programs
in conjunction with or as an alternative to jail sentencing;
         f.   Defraying the cost of transporting prisoners to jails or juvenile
detention facilities; or
         g.   Providing electronic monitoring system.
A municipality may credit the interest collected from fees deposited in the
special fund pursuant to this subsection C1 to the municipality's general fund.
      2.   All money collected pursuant to subsection A2 of this section shall
be remitted monthly to the state treasurer for credit to the judicial education
fund and shall be used for the education and training, including production of
benchbooks and other written materials, of municipal judges and other municipal
court employees.
      3.   All money collected pursuant to subsection A3 of this section shall
be remitted monthly to the state treasurer for credit to the municipal court
automation fund and shall be used for the purchase and maintenance of court
automation systems in the municipal courts. The court automation systems shall
have the capability of providing, on a timely basis, electronic records in a
format specified by the judicial information systems council. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-
19-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  6-1-3B4 of this code.1;
1-4-3: SUSPENDED SENTENCE; PROBATION; COMMUNITY SERVICE:
   A.   Upon a plea of guilty or a judgment of conviction for violation of any
provision of this code or any village ordinance, the municipal court may
suspend in whole or in part the execution of sentence or place the defendant on
probation for a period not exceeding one year on terms and conditions the court
deems best, or both.
   B.   Suspension of execution of the sentence or probation, or both, shall be
granted only when the municipal judge is satisfied it will serve the ends of
justice and of the public.
   C.   The defendant's liability for any fine or other punishment imposed
shall be fully discharged upon successful completion of the terms of probation.
   D.   The municipal court may, as a condition of probation, require the
defendant to serve a period of time in volunteer labor to be known as community
service. The type of labor and period of service shall be at the sole
discretion of the court; provided, that any person receiving community service
shall be immune from any civil liability other than gross negligence arising
out of the community service, and any person who performs community service
pursuant to court order or any criminal diversion program shall not be entitled
to any wages, shall not be considered an employee for any purpose and shall not
be entitled to workers' compensation, unemployment benefits or any other
benefits otherwise provided by law. As used in this section, "community
service" means any labor that benefits the public at large or any public,
charitable or educational entity or institution. (Ord. 1988-07, 7-7-1988)
1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee
is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2003
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village Seal
1-5-1: VILLAGE SEAL:
The design which is attached to ordinance 1986-02 is hereby adopted as the
official seal of the village and is so entered into the official records of the
village. (Ord. 1986-02, 7-15-1986)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND VILLAGE COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elective Officials; Term Of Office
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: Village Council
1-6-4: Compensation
1-6-5: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-6-1: ELECTIVE OFFICIALS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The mayor and members of the village council shall be elected officers of the
village whose terms of office shall be four (4) years. The terms of office for
members of the village council shall be staggered so that the terms of office
for one-half (1/2) of the members will expire every two (2) years. (Ord. 2013-
01, 2-12-2013)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Presiding Officer; Voting: The mayor is the presiding officer of the
village council. He shall vote only when there is a tie vote.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Chief Executive Officer: The mayor is the chief executive officer
and shall have the following powers:
         a.   Cause the ordinances and regulations of the village to be obeyed;
         b.   Exercise, within the village, powers conferred upon sheriffs of
counties to suppress disorders and keep the peace; and
         c.   Perform other duties, compatible with his office, which the
village council may require.
      2.   Appointment Of Officers And Employees: At the organizational meeting
of the village council, the mayor shall submit, for confirmation by the village
council, the names of persons who shall fill the appointive offices of the
village and the names of persons who shall be employed by the village. If the
village council fails to confirm any person as an appointive official or
employee of the village, the mayor, at the next regular meeting of the village
council, shall submit the name of another person to fill the appointed office
or to be employed by the village. Any person holding an appointed office at the
time of the municipal election shall continue in that office until his
successor has been appointed and is qualified.
      3.   Additional Powers: The mayor shall sign all commissions, licenses
and permits granted by the village council, and other acts that the law or
ordinances may require, or the commissions, licenses and permits may be
authenticated as authorized under the uniform facsimile signature of public
officials act 1
   C.   Vacancy In Office: In case of the death, disability, resignation or
change of residence, from the village, of the mayor, the village council shall
appoint, by majority vote, a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the
unexpired term of office. (Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 6-9-1 et seq.1.
1-6-3: VILLAGE COUNCIL:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The village council shall:
      1.   Elect one of its members to act as mayor pro tem in the absence of
the mayor;
      2.   Possess all powers granted by law, and other municipal powers not
conferred by law or ordinance on another officer of the village;
      3.   Manage and control the finances and all property, real and personal,
belonging to the village;
      4.   Determine the time and place of holding its meetings, which shall be
open to the public;
      5.   Determine the rules of its own proceedings;
      6.   Keep minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to examination
by any citizen;
      7.   Adopt rules and regulations necessary to effect the powers granted
municipalities;
      8.   Prescribe the compensation and fees to be paid municipal officers
and employees; and
      9.   Prescribe the powers and duties of those officers whose terms of
office or powers and duties are not defined by law, and impose additional
powers and duties upon those officers whose powers and duties are prescribed by
law.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Any vacancy on the village council shall be filled
by appointment of a qualified elector by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the village council. Any qualified elector appointed to fill a vacancy on
the village council shall serve until the next regular municipal election, or
any special election called in accordance with New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 3-12-1, subsection B, at which time a qualified elector shall be
elected to fill the remaining unexpired term, if any. (Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
1-6-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a salary equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the salary of the county commissioners of Colfax County per month,
payable upon the first day of each calendar month. In addition, when the mayor
must travel outside the village on official business, he or she shall be
reimbursed for travel and per diem in accordance with state statutory
provisions.
   B.   Councilors: Each councilor shall receive a salary equal to sixty
percent (60%) of the salary of the county commissioners of Colfax County per
month, payable upon the first day of each calendar month. In addition, when a
councilor must travel outside the village on official business, he or she shall
be reimbursed for travel and per diem in accordance with state statutory
provisions.
   C.   Changes In Compensation:
      1.   Mayor: In the event that the salary of the county commissioners of
Colfax County changes, then the salary of the mayor shall also change
automatically, as soon as legally permitted, in accordance with state statutes;
and
      2.   Councilors: In the event that the salary of the county commissioners
of Colfax County changes, then the salary of each incumbent councilor shall
also change automatically as soon as legally permitted in accordance with state
statutes. Salaries for councilors may not always be identical due to delayed
implementation of salary changes arising from staggered terms. (Ord. 2013-01,
2-12-2013)
1-6-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Style Of Ordinances: The enacting clause of any village ordinance shall
be: "Be it ordained by the village council of the village of Angel Fire".
   B.   Notice:
      1.   Notice by publication of the title and subject matter of any
ordinance proposed for adoption by the village council must take place at least
two (2) weeks prior to consideration of final action upon the ordinance in open
session of the village council; except, that this subsection shall not apply to
ordinances dealing with an emergency declared by the mayor to be an immediate
danger to the public health, safety and welfare of the village, or to
ordinances the subject matter of which is amending the village zoning map,
provided the amendment to such zoning map has been considered by the planning
and zoning commission and recommended to the village council. It is sufficient
defense to any suit or prosecution to show that no notice by publication was
made.
      2.   Notice of the proposed ordinance shall be published one time as a
legal advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the village.
      3.   Copies of a proposed ordinance shall be available to interested
persons during normal and regular business hours of the village clerk upon
request and payment of a reasonable charge beginning with the date of
publication and continuing to the date of consideration by the village council.
   C.   Vote; Adoption: If a majority of all the members of the village council
vote in favor of adopting the ordinance or resolution, it is adopted. The
village clerk shall record in the minutes book the vote of each member of the
village council on each ordinance or resolution. Within three (3) days after
the adoption of an ordinance or resolution, the mayor shall validate the
ordinance or resolution by endorsing "approved" upon the ordinance or
resolution and signing the same.
   D.   Proof; Authentication; Publication: An ordinance shall be recorded in a
book kept for that purpose, shall be authenticated by the signature of the
mayor and the village clerk and shall bear the seal of the village. The
ordinance shall be published one time either in its entirety or by title and a
general summary of the subject matter contained in the ordinance, whichever the
village council elects to do. (Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Oath Of Office
1-7-2: Conflict Of Interest
1-7-1: OATH OF OFFICE:
Any officer, elected or appointed to any village office, shall take an oath or
affirmation to support the constitution of the United States, the constitution
and laws of the state and to faithfully perform the duties of his office. (2003
Code)
1-7-2: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Financial Interests Of Village Officers And Employees:
      1.   No elected village officer, during the term for which elected, and
no village employee, during the period of such employment, shall acquire a
financial interest in any new or existing business venture or business property
of any kind when such officer or employee believes or has reason to believe
that the new financial interest will be directly affected by his official act.
      2.   No elected village officer and no village employee shall use
confidential information acquired by virtue of his village office or village
employment for his or another's private gain.
      3.   The district attorney shall investigate and prosecute, when
appropriate, any complaint brought to his attention involving a violation of
this subsection. Violation of the provisions of this subsection by any village
officer or employee is grounds for removal or suspension of the officer and
dismissal, demotion or suspension of the employee.
   B.   Disclosure Of Interest By Officers:
      1.   Any member of the village council having a financial interest or
possible interest in the outcome of any policy, decision or determination
before the village council shall, within a reasonable time after such interest
becomes apparent and in no case later than at the time of the taking of a vote
on the issue in which he has a financial interest or possible interest,
disclose to each of the other members of the village council the nature of his
financial interest or possible interest in the issue and his disclosure shall
be recorded in the minute book of the village council.
      2.   Disclosure of financial interest or possible interest on any issue
coming before the village council shall not disqualify a member of the village
council from voting on the issue, unless:
         a.   A majority of the remaining members of the governing body
determine that the member who discloses his financial interest or possible
interest should not in propriety vote on the issue; or
         b.   The member having a financial interest or possible interest in
the issue voluntarily disqualifies himself. (2003 Code)
ARTICLE A.  VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Established
1-7A-2: Appointment And Removal; Salary
1-7A-3: Duties
1-7A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Authorization Action: Pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978,
section 3-13-3, the governing body of the village of Angel Fire, a municipality
having a population of more than one thousand (1,000) persons, hereby provides
that the village establishes the position of village manager as that term is
used in the above cited statute with all authorities, duties and
responsibilities as provided for a manager as stated in New Mexico Statutes
Annotated 1978, sections 3-13-3, 3-14-13 through 3-14-15 and this title. (Ord.
2013-01, 2-12-2013)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL; SALARY:
The manager shall be the chief administrative officer. He shall be appointed by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the governing body for an indefinite
term and until a vacancy is created by death, resignation or removal by the
governing body. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of
administrative qualifications and his selection shall not be limited by reason
of former residence. The manager shall receive a salary to be fixed annually by
the governing body. (Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
1-7A-3: DUTIES:
The village manager shall:
   A.   Serve as chief administrative officer of the village and, within broad
policy guidelines, assist the governing body in planning, administering and
implementing the day to day activities of the municipal government.
   B.   The manager shall have a seat, but no vote, at every meeting of the
governing body. Except when clearly undesirable or unnecessary, the governing
body shall request the opinion of the manager on any proposed measure.
   C.   The administration of the affairs of the village shall be divided into
as many departments as may be deemed desirable by the governing body. Each
department shall be under the charge of a person employed by the manager.
   D.   Employ and discharge all persons engaged in the administrative service
of the village.
   E.   Direct and supervise the work of all municipal employees.
   F.   Enforce all ordinances, rules, regulations and policies enacted by the
governing body.
   G.   Implement all municipal policies.
   H.   Make recommendations to the governing body on all matters concerning
the welfare of the village.
   I.   Represent the village in regard to local, regional, state and federal
activities of concern to the village.
   J.   Develop and submit the annual budget, prepare supporting justification
for presentation to the governing body and advise the council on the financial
status and needs of the village.
   K.   Ensure that adequate safeguards are implemented to protect the village
funds including overseeing the investment of surplus funds to derive the
maximum return.
   L.   Serve as the village procurement officer, assume the responsibility for
compliance with the procurement code 1
   M.   Attend all meetings of the governing body unless excused by the mayor
and serve as an ex officio member of such boards, commissions, committees or
authorities as directed by the governing body.
   N.   Administer personnel matters as personnel officer, make policy and pay
scale recommendations for council approval and coordinate employment benefits.
   O.   Coordinate activities with consulting engineers and the village
attorney.
   P.   Serve as village public information officer.
   Q.   Administer all contracts for outside services.
   R.   Perform other duties as prescribed by the village council. (Ord. 2013-
01, 2-12-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 13-1-28 et seq.1 and make all purchases.
ARTICLE B.  VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Established; Salary
1-7B-2: Appointment; Removal From Office
1-7B-3: Certification
1-7B-4: Duties
1-7B-5: Assistants
1-7B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; SALARY:
The village shall employ a village clerk and establish the salary thereof.
(Ord. 2000-08, 3-23-2000)
1-7B-2: APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the governing body, shall appoint the
clerk. The clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and the village
council and may, subject to the terms of any written employment contract, be
removed by the governing body at any time. (Ord. 2000-08, 3-23-2000)
1-7B-3: CERTIFICATION:
At the time of appointment, if the village clerk is not a New Mexico certified
municipal clerk, he/she shall begin a process of certification immediately upon
employment. Assistants need not begin such certification process. (Ord. 2000-
08, 3-23-2000)
1-7B-4: DUTIES:
The village clerk shall:
   A.   Report to and follow all direction with regard to the work assigned by
supervisory personnel as indicated by the approved organizational chart of the
village; (Ord. 2000-08, 3-23-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Keep in custody all minutes, ordinances, and resolutions approved by
the governing body;
   C.   Keep in custody all other documents generated by the governing body
and/or village administrator;
   D.   Attend all meetings of the governing body and attend other meetings as
directed by the village administrator;
   E.   Record all proceedings, ordinances and resolutions of the governing
body;
   F.   Collect a reasonable fee for the cost of furnishing copies of municipal
records as directed by the village administrator;
   G.   Assist the village administrator in implementing all municipal
policies;
   H.   Assist the village administrator in the development and submission of
the annual departmental budget;
   I.   Receive money and other things of value belonging to the village and
promptly deposit such money to the appropriate account of the village or
provide for storage, handling and safe keeping of other things of value;
   J.   Expend money of the village only as directed by the village
administrator;
   K.   Keep departmental accounts and records in the manner prescribed by the
governing body and/or village administrator;
   L.   Assist the procurement officer, as requested for the village purchases;
   M.   Prepare all ordinances, resolutions, minutes, and any other documents
requested by the governing body and/or village administrator. This work is
primarily concerned with clerical and accounting management of the departmental
activities and records;
   N.   Keep open to inspection by any citizen during the regular business
hours of the village the records of the clerk; and
   O.   Perform other work as directed by the village administrator. (Ord.
2000-08, 3-23-2000)
1-7B-5: ASSISTANTS:
The village administrator, with the consent of the governing body, may
designate other municipal employees to be deputy village clerks who shall have
the right and duty to perform all of the duties of the village clerk including,
but not limited to, the duties set out in the municipal election code 1
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 3-8-1 et seq.1. (Ord. 2000-08, 3-23-2000)
ARTICLE C.  PUBLIC EMPLOYEE BARGAINING
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Ordinance Adopted; Copies
1-7C-2: Amendments To Public Employee Bargaining
1-7C-1: ORDINANCE ADOPTED; COPIES:
   A.   Adopted: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, article 7E New
Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978 "public employee bargaining act" and all
subsequent amendments adopted by the state of New Mexico after this date are
adopted by reference pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-17-6.
   B.   Copies: A copy of the New Mexico public employee bargaining act is
available for inspection during normal and regular business hours at the
village hall. (Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
1-7C-2: AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEE BARGAINING:
   A.   New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 10-7E-3. Conflicts. Is amended to
include: In the event of conflict with other ordinances, the provisions of this
article shall supersede other previously enacted ordinances; provided that this
article shall not supersede the village personnel ordinance 1
   B.   New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 10-7E-12. Hearing Procedures. Is
amended to include: All meetings shall be held in the village of Angel Fire.
(Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
 
Notes
  1. See title 2 of this code.1. Village sanctioned rules and regulations,
  administrative directives and policies, departmental rules and regulations
1 and workplace practices shall control unless there is conflict with a
  collective bargaining agreement. Where conflict exists, the collective
  bargaining agreement shall control.
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Court Established
1-8-2: Jurisdiction
1-8-3: Municipal Judge
1-8-4: Rules Of Procedure
1-8-5: Court Hours
1-8-6: Personnel And Finances
1-8-1: COURT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a municipal court in the village to be presided over by
a municipal judge as hereafter provided. (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-1988)
1-8-2: JURISDICTION:
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction over all offenses and complaints
arising under the ordinances and laws of the village and shall have power to
issue subpoenas and warrants and the power to punish for contempt. (Ord. 1988-
03, 6-2-1988)
1-8-3: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications; Oath Of Office: The municipal judge shall be a bona
fide resident of the village and shall be a qualified elector as provided by
the laws of the state and shall, before qualifying, take and subscribe an oath
or affirmation, in writing, to support the constitutions of the United States
of America and the state of New Mexico and to impartially discharge and perform
all the duties of such office to the best of his or her ability, which oath of
office shall be filed in the office of the village clerk.
   B.   Election; Term Of Office: A municipal judge shall be elected for a term
of four (4) years and shall be elected at the regular village elections. Any
qualified person, as provided herein, may have his or her name placed upon an
official ballot by filing with the village clerk a notarized declaration of his
or her candidacy as provided in the election laws of the state and the election
laws of the village. The official ballot shall be provided by the village, and
the candidate receiving the highest number of votes cast by qualified electors
at any election for municipal judge shall be declared elected to office. The
municipal judge holding office at the effective date hereof shall remain in
office as municipal judge until the expiration of his or her present term.
   C.   Alternate Municipal Judge
      1.   The mayor of the village, subject to the approval of the village
council, may appoint an alternate municipal judge. The alternate municipal
judge shall serve as acting municipal judge during the vacation, temporary
absence, unavailability or incapacity of the municipal judge. The alternate
municipal judge shall serve as temporary judge to exercise all powers of the
municipal judge until the return of the municipal judge. Compensation of the
alternate municipal judge shall be set by the village council.
   D.   Monthly Reports; Monies To Clerk: The municipal judge shall make
monthly written reports to the village clerk, on forms to be provided by the
village, of all monies collected by the municipal court, and such reports shall
be filed on or before the tenth day of each month following the month in which
said funds were collected, and the funds shall be deposited into the village
general fund as they are collected by the municipal court. Further, such
reports shall include an itemized statement showing the different amounts so
collected, the name of the person, insofar as possible, from whom such money
was recovered and the date such payments were made to the court. The report
shall further set forth the manner of, terms and disposition of all cases.
Pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 35-14-9: "Any municipal judge
violating any provision relating to making reports or remitting money collected
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than two hundred dollars
($200) or imprisoned not more than ninety days, or both". (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-
1988)
   E.   Salary: The salary for the municipal judge will remain the same as that
of councilors, whether increased or decreased. (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-1988; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. 9-27-2922)
1-8-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The municipal judge shall follow the rules of procedure as established in the
court rules, procedure and evidence, judicial vol. I, New Mexico Statutes
Annotated. (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-1988)
1-8-5: COURT HOURS:
The municipal judge shall establish the court hours, as needed, with a minimum
of one regularly scheduled session per week. Additional sessions shall be held
at the discretion of the judge with the approval of the village council.
Regularly scheduled court sessions may be cancelled with cause only with forty
eight (48) hours' notice. All affected parties must be notified by the judge or
his or her designee. Emergency cancellation with less than forty eight (48)
hours' notice must be approved by the mayor. (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-1988)
1-8-6: PERSONNEL AND FINANCES:
All personnel of the municipal court shall be employed by the village, and any
appropriation for the court shall be controlled and budgeted for in the same
manner as any other village department. (Ord. 1988-03, 6-2-1988)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Special Council Meetings; Administrative Fee
1-9-2: Electronic Payment Service Fees
1-9-1: SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETINGS; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   The village has regularly scheduled meetings of the governing body, and said
governing body causes advance notice of changed meeting dates and/or times to
be published. There shall be an additional twenty five dollar ($25.00) charge
per request for the administrative costs for adding an item for council
consideration to any special council meeting that has been scheduled. For a
permit that requires preparation and convening of a special council meeting
that has not been previously scheduled, the fee will be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. 2013-01, 2-12-2013)
1-9-2: ELECTRONIC PAYMENT SERVICE FEES:
   The Village typically accepts payment by credit card, debit card, or other
electronic means for purchases of merchandise or services, municipal bills,
fees, fines, and other charges. The Village is authorized to impose a
reasonable fee for the acceptance of payment by credit card, debit card, or
other electronic means.
   The specific amount or percentage of the electronic payment surcharge and
any related terms or conditions shall be established and may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the Governing Body.
(Ord. 2025-09, 8-12-2025)
TITLE 2
PERSONNEL POLICY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: General Provisions
2-1-3: Definitions
2-1-4: Violation Of Policy
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
This Personnel Policy is enacted by the Village of Angel Fire (“Village” or
“Angel Fire”) in order to further the following goals:
   A.   To provide a uniform system of personnel administration for all Village
departments and promote communication among department directors, supervisors
and employees;
   B.   To assist management in personnel actions and procedures and to assure
effective and consistent use of human resources by the Village. (Ord. 2024-09,
12-24-2024)
2-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Short Title. This document may be cited as the Angel Fire Personnel
Policy.
   B.   Disclaimer. Polices, plans, procedures, and information contained in
this chapter are for guidance and informational purposes only. This chapter is
not a contract of employment, or a guarantee of employment in any particular
position or for any particular period of time. Nothing herein changes the at-
will nature of employment with the Village. Both the employee and the Village
retain the right to terminate employment at any time for any lawful reason, or
no reason, with or without advance notice.
   C.   Applicability. The terms of this Personnel Policy apply to all
employment classifications as specified herein. A collective bargaining
agreement that contains a provision that contradicts a provision in this
Personnel Policy shall supersede the specific provision in this Personnel
Policy only to the extent that the collective bargaining agreement is
contradictory. A department may establish written policies or operating
procedures that are applicable only to the department. If there is a conflict
between a department-specific policy and this Personnel Policy, this chapter
shall supersede the department-specific procedure.
   D.   Time. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed in this
Personnel policy, the day of the event or act from which a designated period of
time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so
computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or a day when which
the administrative offices of the Village are closed, in which event the time
period runs until the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days.
Unless otherwise specified, the term “day” or “days” shall refer to calendar
days. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
EVALUATION OR PERFORMANCE REVIEW: An assessment by an employee's supervisor of
the employee's performance. An evaluation can be annual, probationary,
directed, requested, or disciplinary.
EXEMPT POSITION: A position that is not subject to the overtime rules of the
Fair Labor Standards Act.
FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT or FLSA: The federal law that establishes certain
standards for nonexempt positions, published as 29 U.S.C sections 201 through
219 as it currently exists or is hereafter amended.
NON-EXEMPT POSITION: A position that is subject to the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
PAID TIME OFF (PTO): An accumulated number of hours that an employee may use in
accordance with this title, as they wish, for sick days, vacation and/or other
personal reasons.
REORGANIZATION: Reorganization is the elimination, reclassification, creation
or realignment of departments, offices, positions or personnel. Reorganization
is subject to approval by the Manager.
TERMINATION: Involuntary dismissal from employment.
VILLAGE MANAGER: The Chief Administrative Officer of the Village. (Ord. 2024-
09, 12-24-2024)
2-1-4: VIOLATION OF POLICY:
The Village of Angel Fire has a zero tolerance for employees who violate these
policies. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
CHAPTER 2
EMPLOYMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Village Employment Classifications
2-2-2: Recruitment And Selection
2-2-3: Promotion; Eligibility List
2-2-4: Pre-Employment Matters
2-2-5: Employee In-Processing/Orientation
2-2-6: Probation
2-2-7: Conditions Of Employment
2-2-8: Inclement Weather
2-2-9: Dress And Personal Appearance
2-2-10: Political Participation
2-2-11: Outside Employment
2-2-12: Responsibility For Village Property
2-2-13: Minimum Qualifications
2-2-14: Nepotism
2-2-15: Personal Relationship In The Workplace
2-2-16: Criminal Activity
2-2-17: Personal Use Of Village Property
2-2-18: Performance Evaluations
2-2-19: Conflicts Of Interest
2-2-20: Personnel Records
2-2-1: VILLAGE EMPLOYMENT CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Classified Employee. A classified employee is an employee who has
completed the probationary period and is in a full-time position or a part-time
position working at least thirty (30) hours per week.
   B.   Elected Official. An Elected Official is a Town Councilor or the Mayor.
Elected Officials are not classified employees or regular employees and their
employment is generally not governed by this Personnel policy. Elected
Officials are eligible to receive certain benefits, but only as specifically
set forth herein. If a given policy is silent as to its application to Elected
Officials, it does not apply.
   C.   Appointed Employee. Appointed Employees include the Village manager,
clerk, police chief, fire chief, finance director and attorney. Selection,
suspension, and removal of appointed employees is governed by state law. See
NMSA 1978 §§ 3-11-5 and 3-11-6. Appointed employees may not utilize the
procedures set forth in this chapter to challenge discipline or termination.
Other provisions of this chapter apply to appointed employees unless otherwise
specified.
   D.   Full-Time Employee. A full-time employee is a classified employee who
works thirty (30) hours or more each week.
   E.   Hourly Employee. An employee whose compensation is based on the actual
number of hours worked.
   F.   Part-Time Employee. A part time employee who is scheduled to work fewer
than thirty (30) hours each week.
   G.   Salaried Employee. An employee whose compensation is a fixed amount per
year, and not based on the actual number of hours worked.
   H.   Supervisory Public Safety Employees. Lieutenants serving in the fire
department, and other supervisory public safety employees expressly designated
by the City Manager, serve at the pleasure of the City Manager, and may not
utilize the process for challenging discipline or termination set forth in this
chapter. Other provisions of this chapter apply to supervisory public safety
employees unless otherwise specified.
   I.   Probationary Employee. An employee is classified as "probationary"
until his or her probationary period is successfully completed. An employee
whose probation has not been completed is an at will employee whose employment
may be terminated without cause or advance notice.
   J.   Unclassified Employee. An unclassified employee is an employee who is
not hired through the normal personnel selection procedures, or who is
designated as unclassified by the City Manager. An unclassified employee is not
a classified employee or a regular employee and an unclassified employee's
employment is generally not governed by this Personnel policy. If a given
policy is silent as to its application to unclassified employees, it does not
apply. An unclassified employee is an at-will employee whose employment may be
terminated without cause or advance notice. Unclassified employees may not
utilize the processes for challenging discipline or termination set forth in
this chapter. Unclassified employees are eligible to receive certain benefits,
but only as specifically set forth herein.
   K.   Temporary Position/Casual employee A position created for services
needed on a temporary or seasonal basis. A classified position may be filled by
a temporary employee due to a temporary absence of an employee or other
circumstances. A temporary position shall not exceed nine (9) months in
duration. A temporary employee is an at will employee whose employment may be
terminated without cause or advance notice. A temporary employee does not
accrue leave, does not receive benefits, and is not paid for holidays.
Termination of a temporary employee may not be challenged under the procedures
set forth in this chapter.
   L.   Pro Re Nata (PRN) Position. A position created to provide services on
an as needed basis. Employees holding PRN positions are not guaranteed to work
any particular number of hours each week. Employees holding PRN positions will
be compensated on an hourly basis, do not accrue leave, and are not paid for
holidays. Employees holding PRN positions are unclassified employees unless
otherwise designated by the City manager. Employees holding PRN positions are
employed at will, may be terminated without cause or advance notice, and may
not challenge termination under the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   M.   Changes in Status. Only the Village Council may change the status of a
position from unclassified at-will to classified and only if the position is
not made unclassified at-will by statute. If the Village Council approves a
change of status of a position from unclassified at-will to classified, and the
employee affected has not completed six (6) months of service, the employee
shall serve the remaining time up to six (6) months on probation. The
probationary status may be extended pursuant to the applicable section of this
chapter. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-2: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION:
   A.   Goal: It is the goal of the Village to hire the most qualified person
for an open position.
   B.   Posting of Open Positions. All vacant positions shall be posted on
Village bulletin boards or the Village's internet web site and may be
advertised in newspapers or trade publications. A qualified employee who
submits a timely application for a posted, vacant position may be interviewed
along with qualified external applicants.
   C.   Employment Applications. Applicants interested in applying for an open
position shall submit an application on the form provided by the Human
Resources Department or online at www.angelfirenrn.gov. If the solicitation
requires, a resume, copies of certificates, diplomas, licenses, or other
credentials, shall be submitted with the application. Submission of false
information in connection with an employment application is grounds for
immediate termination, even after completion of an employee's probationary
period.
   D.   Initial Screening. Following the closing date, the Human Resources
Department will screen the application and determine whether the applicant
possesses the minimum qualifications for the position, whether the applicant
has a satisfactory employment history, and whether any false or deceptive
statements are present on the employment application. All applications must be
received by the closing date and must include copies of all necessary
transcripts, licenses, and certifications. Resumes shall not be accepted in
lieu of the official application, but may be submitted in connection with an
application, or requested as part of the application. An applicant who does not
meet the minimum qualifications of the position shall not be considered further
and will be notified of that fact. Background checks may be required after an
applicant becomes a finalist for a position. The Village may require a
background check for applicants for law enforcement positions at any time.
   E.   Offers of Employment. Any offer of employment shall be made contingent
upon successful completion of all required pre-employment medical examinations,
drug and alcohol screenings, satisfactory background checks, and compliance
with immigration law requirements. Any offer that does not comply with the
requirements of this section is invalid. If an applicant declines an offer at
any stage of the hiring process, he or she will not receive any further
consideration for the position. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-3: PROMOTION, ELIGIBILITY LIST:
   A.   Promotion. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a vacant
position may be filled by promoting a qualified individual employed within
Village government without the necessity of opening the position for
applications.
   B.   Eligibility Lists. Lists of qualified applicants may be developed and
maintained for the convenience of the Village in obtaining qualified applicants
for positions. Each person on such an eligibility list shall be prequalified,
tested, and interviewed for the position so that no further procedures are
necessary to offer the person a position. Eligibility lists may be used in
conjunction with other recruiting procedures. Placement on an eligibility list
shall in no way guarantee appointment to any vacant position, nor shall it
guarantee that any applicant will obtain a position or that the application
will even be considered. It is the obligation of a person seeking employment to
keep the Village informed at all times of their interest in openings and make
timely application for each position. Persons on an eligibility list may be
offered a position when one becomes available without the necessity of opening
the position for applications. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-4: PRE-EMPLOYMENT MATTERS:
   A.   Medical Examination. Each person who is offered a public safety
position must successfully undergo a pre-employment medical examination.
Medical examinations may in the discretion of the Village be required for other
positions. If the medical examination shows that the applicant is not qualified
for the position sought or discloses a disability which cannot be reasonably
accommodated without undue hardship in the position sought, the offer of
employment may be withdrawn.
   B.   Pre-Employment Drug and Alcohol Testing. Each person who is offered
employment shall successfully undergo pre-employment drug and alcohol testing
as a condition precedent to obtaining employment. The testing shall be
performed by a health professional of the Village's choice, at the Village's
expense. All applicants must be drug-free or alcohol-free at the time of the
pre-employment drug test. For purposes of this section "drug" means any
substance that is illegal under the laws of the United States or the State of
New Mexico, or which may be lawfully used but is being misused by the
applicant. Applicants who receive a positive test will be denied employment and
shall not be considered for employment for another position for twelve months.
An applicant receiving a positive test may be given the opportunity to
demonstrate a positive test was indicative of legal use of a drug. The Village
will not decline to hire an applicant for a non-safety sensitive position based
on medical cannabis use authorized by the Lynn and Erin Compassionate Use Act,
NMSA 1978 §§ 26-2B-1.
   C.   Pre-Employment Background Check. A person offered employment may be
required to successfully undergo a pre-employment background investigation as a
condition precedent to obtaining employment.
   D.   Immigration Law Compliance. Each person offered employment shall
complete an Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 and present
appropriate documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility as a
condition precedent to obtaining employment. Former Village employees shall not
be required to re-establish eligibility if they have completed a Form I-9 and
established identity and eligibility within the past three (3) years.
   E.   Ineligibility for hire and rehire. An applicant may be considered
ineligible for hire or rehire if the applicant has knowingly made any false
statement or fraudulent omission on the employment application; has not met the
requirements and qualifications for the position; has failed pre-employment
examinations or screenings or other requirements; not bondable and the position
in question requires bonding; not been certified by a physician that he or she
can perform the physical requirements or essential job requirements; or a
person who has previously been fired from the village as a result of
disciplinary action. Criminal convictions may be considered but shall not be an
automatic bar to employment. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-5: EMPLOYEE IN-PROCESSING/ORIENTATION:
Orientation. Each new employee is required to complete employee in-processing
on the first day of work. During the orientation, the Human Resources
Department will explain Village benefits, the employment relationship, and
distribute enrollment forms. The employee will receive a copy of this Personnel
Policy and will be instructed to review it. Next, the employee shall receive
orientation at the hiring department. A representative of the hiring department
shall explain the employee's duties, the department's work standards, the
department's internal policies, the hours of work, lunch and break schedule,
when and whom to report absence from work, methods of recording time worked,
and the department's safety rules and procedures. The hiring department shall
also provide a tour of the department, show the employee where the safety or
protective equipment is located and introduce the employee to co-workers. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-6: PROBATION:
   A.   Probationary Period. Each person offered employment shall begin
employment as a probationary employee who may be terminated without cause or
advance notice, and without a right to seek a hearing or other relief under the
provisions of this chapter. The probationary period for police and fire
department employees will be twelve (12) months if uncertified, or six (6)
months if certified. The probationary period for all other employees shall be
six (6) months. In order to become a regular employee, a new employee must
successfully complete the probationary period, as determined in a performance
evaluation given at the end of the period. The probationary period is used to
evaluate the new employee's capabilities, work habits, and overall performance.
The probation period shall commence when the employee begins Village
employment. Any significant absence during the probationary period shall
automatically extend the trial period by the length of the absence.
   B.   Extending the Probationary Period. If the probationary period does not
allow sufficient time to thoroughly evaluate the employee's performance, or if
there are concerns regarding the employee's performance during that period
warranting further evaluation, the probationary period may be extended for an
additionally ninety (90) days with approval of the Village Manager.
   C.   Limitation on Transfers. To prevent excessive turnover, the Village
Manager may designate a position as one in which an employee selected for the
position shall not be eligible to compete for another position within the
Village during the employee's probationary period.
   D.   Paid Time Off During the Probationary Period. A probationary status
employee shall accumulate PTO ("paid time off') during the probationary period;
however, PTO is only available for use after completion of thirty (30) days of
continuous, satisfactory employment.
   E.   Evaluation. During the probationary period, police and fire department
employees subject to a twelve (12) month probationary period shall be evaluated
at six (6) and twelve (12) months on the job. All other employees shall be
evaluated at three (3) and six (6) months on the job. A satisfactory
performance evaluation at the end of the probationary period is a necessary
precondition to transitioning an employee out of probationary status. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-7: CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Hours of Work. Full-time employees are expected to work at least thirty
(30) hours per week. Hourly employees must report to work no earlier than ten
(10) minutes prior to the beginning of the shift and remain at work no later
than ten (10) minutes after the conclusion of the shift, unless otherwise
authorized by the supervisor.
   B.   Absences. When conditions such as illness, personal circumstances, or
weather prevent the employee from working, the employee shall notify his/her
immediate supervisor no less than one (1) hour before scheduled to arrive at
work. Failure to notify the supervisor in a timely manner is grounds for
disciplinary action. In cases of excessive absenteeism, the employee may be
required to submit to a medical examination prior to returning to work.
Unauthorized absences (those not approved by the immediate supervisor) will be
grounds for disciplinary action. Unauthorized absence from work for three (3)
consecutive work shifts will be considered abandonment of the job.
   C.   Breaks. Lunch breaks are without pay and are normally one (1) hour,
except for departments with established thirty (30) minute lunch breaks. In
addition, each employee may take two (2) breaks per day, one in the morning and
one in the afternoon, each for a period of fifteen (15) minutes. Supervisors
may limit or delay breaks if, in their opinion, continuous work is required,
and the entire break or remainder of a break will be taken at a later time or
the same day as determined by the supervisor. Breaks will not be accumulated.
   D.   Remote Work. Employees may, at the discretion of the Village Manager
with a recommendation from the Department Head, be permitted to work remotely
on a temporary or long-term basis. Candidates for remote-work arrangements must
be trustworthy, disciplined, self-motivated, and possess good time management
and organizational skills. Not all positions are suitable for remote-work
arrangements. Conditions of the remote-work arrangement shall be defined by the
supervisor. While working remotely, employees must adhere to all conditions and
terms of employment.
      The Village Manager and an employee's supervisor retain discretion to
determine that a remote position is no longer in the best interests of the
Village, or to modify remote work arrangements. The Village Manager or
supervisor may at any time require a remote employee to work in the office.
   E.   Modified Duty/Light Duty: An employee who has been on authorized leave
due to an illness, pregnancy or other medical consideration, upon release from
his/her physician, may be permitted to return to work in a temporary modified
duty assignment (Light Duty) within Village, if such position is available and/
or the Department Head has a position available which does not jeopardize or
aggravate his/her physical condition. The intent of this provision is to permit
an employee to return to work as soon as it is medically permissible for him/
her to do so. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-8: INCLEMENT WEATHER:
   A.   Inclement Weather and Other Unplanned Closures. The Village will make
every effort to be open for business on scheduled workdays; however, there may
be situations where conditions make it impractical to do so. These include but
are not limited to severe weather, declaration of emergencies, and utility
disruptions. In the case of such events, employees will be categorized as
either essential or noon-essential personnel.
      1.   Essential: Fire, EMS, Police, Water, Wastewater, Streets, and the
Village Manager. Essential employees are required to be on the job regardless
of conditions.
      2.   Non-essential: All employees not listed above.
      3.   Designation of other essential employees: Department Heads have
authority to designate additional personnel as essential based on the nature
and severity of the weather event. If additional personnel are required, the
Village Manager and/or Department Heads will make every effort to provide an
employee advance notification; however this may not always be possible.
   B.   Procedure. This procedure applies to all Village employees, and governs
employees' obligations regarding reporting to work and use of PTO when
circumstances impact the organization's ability to be open, to ensure
continuation of Village services to citizens and visitors.
      1.    All employees, whether considered non-essential or essential
services personnel, are expected to make an effort to report to work at their
scheduled time regardless of weather conditions. However, if a non-essential
employee is concerned that driving conditions such as ice and snow, present a
danger to their safety, they may elect to use a vacation (PTO) day. They must
notify their respective Department Head/Supervisor within thirty (30) minutes
of the start of their scheduled shift and may use accrued paid time off or
personal leave to cover their absence. Employees that fail to notify their
respective Department Head/Supervisor of the absence or within the stated time
frame will be subject to disciplinary action.
      2. The Village Manager, or designee, has the authority to close or delay
services within the Village for non-essential personnel. In the event of an
officially declared closure, all non-essential employees will be permitted to
work remotely..
      3. In the event of the aforementioned closure, all FLSA non-exempt
employees (both essential and non-essential) who are physically present for
work during the closure will receive a seven and a half percent (7.5%) shift
differential for hours actually worked in person during the closure. Employees
receiving a shift differential for regularly assigned work during a pay period
are not eligible to receive an additional seven and a half percent (7.5%)
differential in the same pay period under this provision.
      4.   All essential employees have policies and job descriptions in their
Departments, that outline their duties as an emergency worker. The head of
their Department has the authority to set policy as to their official work
schedule and/or emergency or weather related time off. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-
2024)
2-2-9: DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE:
   A.   Dress. Employees should present the best possible image to the public
and should always be as clean and neatly dressed as the work assignment allows.
If a uniform is prescribed for an employee's function, it shall be worn at all
times while on duty. Employees not wearing a uniform should be identifiable by
as Village employees through Village-specific attire, or a name tag. Failure to
wear designated uniforms or to be identifiable as a Village employee while on
duty will be considered insubordination. (unless authorized by the Department
Head for special events, court appearances, or other assignments) Uniforms
shall not be worn during off duty time (except when commuting to and from work)
or in combination with non-uniform clothing. Unduly casual clothing, evening
wear, midriff bearing tops or other revealing attire, shorts, ripped clothing,
or clothing not suited for an employee's duties are not appropriate for Village
work.
   B.   Uniforms. Uniforms that are paid for and supplied by the Village must
be returned to the Village upon separation or termination of employment.
Employees not required to wear a uniform shall wear clothing and footwear which
are professional, neat, clean, not frayed or torn and suitable for the job
being performed. Only Village logos may appear on apparel and headwear.
   C.   Personal Hygiene. Hair should be clean and beards, if worn, neatly
trimmed; hair and beards must be an appropriate length for the work performed.
If your job requires, personal hygiene and grooming must adhere to standards
established for the department so as to not be offensive. Visible tattoos that
are offensive, hateful, or vulgar must be covered while working or in a
capacity that represents the Village.
   D.   Enforcement: An employee's supervisor may direct an employee to make
appropriate attire changes. An employee may also be sent home without pay if
the department director and/or Village Manager determine the attire, appearance
or personal grooming of the employee to be inappropriate or offensive. Failure
to comply with these standards, or to wear clothing required for performance of
an employee's duties, are grounds for disciplinary action. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-
24-2024)
2-2-10: POLITICAL PARTICIPATION:
   A.   Campaigning. A Village employee shall not campaign, distribute
literature, wear political buttons or clothing or solicit political
contributions for themselves or another candidate while on the job, nor shall
they represent or appear to be representing the Village at political meetings
or political activities. In addition, material and literature regarding
candidates shall not be dispensed on any Village premises or out of Village
vehicles. Employees shall not be coerced into campaigning for a Village Elected
Official to ensure continued employment with the Village.
   B.   Seeking Office. An employee seeking a Village elected office may not
continue Village employment beginning thirty (30) days prior to the election.
Candidates shall abide by any other applicable provisions of state or federal
law concerning campaigning.
   C.   Voting Rights. Nothing in this Personnel policy shall deny employees
the right to vote as they choose.
   D.   Voting. During an election, an employee who is registered to vote and
whose hours of work do not allow sufficient time for voting shall be allowed
the necessary time off with pay for this purpose, not to exceed two (2) hours.
   E.   If Elected. A Village employee or volunteer who is elected to a
position on the Council shall resign from that position before taking office.
(Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-11: OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT:
Outside Employment. Employees may obtain outside employment or engage in
outside work if there is no conflict with regular working hours, the employee's
efficiency is not reduced, and the employee's absenteeism is below twenty
percent (20%). Employees must notify their department manager of any outside
work employment. If an employee's outside work interferes with the performance
of his or her position with the Village, the employee will be required to
terminate the outside work or employment immediately. Outside work or
employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is prohibited. (Ord. 2024-
09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-12: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Care of Village Property. Each employee is responsible for Village
equipment or property which he or she uses. The employee assumes the sole and
complete responsibility for the condition and use of equipment or property
entrusted to the employee. The cost of repairing or replacing property or
equipment damaged by negligent acts of the employee may be deducted from the
employee's pay.
   B.   Care of Equipment and Vehicles. Each employee who is entrusted with the
use of Village equipment or motor vehicles is expected to exercise reasonable
care in their use, assure regular maintenance, and follow all operating
instructions, safety standards, and guidelines. Any improper, careless,
negligent, destructive, or unsafe operation of equipment or a vehicle may be
considered unsatisfactory performance of duties and result in disciplinary
action. Each employee must notify the supervisor if any equipment, machine,
tool, or vehicle appears to be damaged, defective, or in need of repair. This
is essential to prevent the deterioration of equipment and possible injury to
the employee or others. If Village equipment or a vehicle is damaged as a
result of an employee's neglect of his or her responsibilities in this section
or as a result of gross negligence, the cost of repair or replacement may be
deducted from the employee's net pay. No Village equipment or vehicle will be
used in any way for any personal gain or outside employment. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-
24-2024)
2-2-13: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   In General. All employees in positions that require certification,
licensure, continuing education units (CEU's), etc., are required to maintain
such certification, licensure, CEU's, etc., as a condition of employment.
Failure to maintain the required minimum qualification may result in demotion
or termination of employment.
   B.   Driver's Licenses. Any employee whose duties require that the employee
drive a motor vehicle on Village business must possess a valid New Mexico State
Driver's License of the appropriate classification and endorsement(s). If an
employee's driving privileges are suspended or revoked, the employee must
immediately notify his or her supervisor and immediately discontinue driving
any motor vehicle on Village business. Any employee who fails to report a
suspension or revocation may subject an employee to disciplinary action, up to
and including termination. In an effort to reduce liability and assure legal
compliance all employees that drive a Village owned vehicle as part of their
duties or assignments will be subject to Department of Motor Vehicle driver's
license monitoring to assure the employee maintains a current and valid
driver's license.
   C.   CDL Licenses. Any employee whose duties require him or her to hold a
Commercial Drivers' License (CDL) is responsible for maintenance of that
license.
   D.   Training. Employees may be required to take periodic safety-related
training in connection with the New Mexico Municipal League, or other trainings
in the best interests of the Village, employee, or public. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-
24-2024)
2-2-14: NEPOTISM:
Nepotism Prohibited. The employment of immediate relatives in the same
department or office is strongly discouraged so as to avoid interpersonal
conflicts and favoritism. No person shall be employed in a department that is
to be supervised by a person related by consanguinity (blood) or affinity
(marriage) within the third degree, unless first approved by the Village
Council. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-15: PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS IN THE WORKPLACE:
Employee Off Duty Conduct. Employee off-duty conduct is generally regarded as
private, as long as such conduct does not create problems within the workplace.
An exception is romantic or sexual relationships between supervisors and
subordinates. It is strictly prohibited for an employee in a supervisory
position to supervise another employee with whom he or she is romantically or
sexually involved. A supervisor who becomes sexually or romantically involved
with an employee whom he or she supervises must immediately disclose the
existence of the relationship to his or her immediate supervisor and the
Personnel Director. One of the employees may be transferred to another position
or department, which may result in a reduction in pay. The employee with the
more senior position will be considered for transfer first to avoid any
perception of retaliation against the less senior employee. If no opportunity
for a transfer exists, the senior employee will be required to resign. Failure
to resign will result in termination. Failure of an employee to disclose that
they are involved in a romantic or sexual relationship with their supervisor or
their subordinate shall result in disciplinary action up to and including
termination. The provisions of this policy apply regardless of the sexual
orientation of the parties involved. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-16: CRIMINAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Allegations of Criminal Conduct. All complaints or allegations of
criminal conduct on the part of any employee will be referred to the Police
Department or other appropriate outside agency for investigation. Any employee
who engages in criminal activity may be subject to termination separate from
any criminal proceedings. An employee shall immediately inform his or her
supervisor if the employee is charged with a crime. All employees are required
to cooperate and participate in investigative and/or disciplinary matters
pursuant to Garrity v. New Jersey but are not required to give up their Miranda
rights where they have been or might be charged with or arrested for a criminal
offense. Failure to comply may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination.
   B.   Search and Seizure. Employees are advised that the work area is subject
to reasonable search by the Village. Employees are further advised that they do
not have an expectation of privacy in the work area in most cases, and should
therefore refrain from keeping personal items or property in the work area.
Purses, backpacks and suitcases are generally not subject to search. Village-
owned vehicles, equipment, lockers, desks, cubicles, file cabinets, computers
or telephones, even though used by a single employee, may be searched upon
reasonable suspicion that a violation of this chapter or a collective
bargaining agreement exists. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the
Village from searching the work area for work-related, non-investigatory
reasons. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-17: PERSONAL USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Use for Profit or Personal Gain. An employee shall not use Village
property for personal use, for profit, for gain, or as part of secondary
employment. Use of Village property in violation of this policy may result in
termination. Some limited personal use of Village property is permitted.
Examples of authorized personal use include use of an assigned Village vehicle
to drive to lunch, the use of a Village copy machine at cost, diverting from an
assigned task to run a personal errand when it can be done on the way to or
from the assigned destination and other nominal personal uses. Village
telephones may be used for personal business on a limited basis. An employee
may receive personal telephone calls and messages at work, but the calls and
messages must be brief, of a limited number, and must not interfere with the
employee's work. Personal use of Village computers and internet is also
permitted on a limited basis. The Village may monitor use of its property and
resources. Employees should have no expectation of privacy when utilizing
Village property for personal use. Excessive use of the Village's property for
personal use may result in disciplinary action. Common sense in the privilege
should be exercised.
   B.   Village credit cards and WEX cards may be utilized only for authorized
Village expenses and in accordance with all Village policies concerning
purchases and procurement. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-18: PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS:
   A.   Introduction. A formal performance evaluation of each employee may be
conducted to provide the supervisor and the employee an opportunity to discuss
job performance, identify and correct weaknesses, encourage and recognize
strengths, and discuss positive, purposeful approaches for meeting goals.
   B.   Evaluation Procedure.
      1.   Date of Evaluation. Performance reviews will typically occur for all
employees in May of each year. Each employee on probation must receive
performance reviews after three (3) months and six (6) months of employment,
except for probationary public safety employees, who must receive performance
reviews after six (6) months and twelve (12) months of employment. These
provisions also apply to employees who are on probation following a promotion
or transfer. An additional performance evaluation may be scheduled as deemed
necessary by an employee's supervisor or the Village Manager.
      2.   Evaluation Form. When a performance review is initiated, the
supervisor shall complete the Performance and Development Plan (PDP) provided
by Human Resources. The PDP form is used to record performance criteria, dates
of periodic reviews, and results of the annual reviews, or other required
performance evaluations. A PDP is developed on each employee and becomes part
of the employee's personnel file. Prior to the performance evaluation,
employees will be asked to complete a self-evaluation.
      3.   Conduct of Evaluation. The performance evaluation shall be conducted
in person by the employee's immediate supervisor, at which time the completed
evaluation form shall be presented to the employee. Before becoming effective
the performance evaluation shall be reviewed, and if appropriate, approved by
the Department Head/Elected Official.
   C.   Objecting to the Employment Evaluation. If an employee wishes to rebut
a performance evaluation, the employee may complete a rebuttal statement on the
place provided on the performance evaluation form or prepare a separate
statement. An employee aggrieved at a performance review may request review by
the Department Head and/or further review by Human Resources. Neither the
Department Head nor Human Resources is not obligated to take any action when
asked to undertake such a review. Employees may not challenge performance
reviews under any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-19: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
   A.   Private Gain May Result in Termination. Termination may result from a
conflict of interest that results in private gain to the employee or detriment
to the Village. Therefore, each employee must perform his or her assigned tasks
without actual, potential or apparent conflicts of interest, particularly with
vendors of the Village.
   B.   Examples of Conflicts of Interest. Examples of potential conflicts of
interest include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   A direct or indirect financial interest in any sale or lease to the
Village of goods or services;
      2.   Accepting a gift, gratuity, or favor from a vendor;
      3.   A close, personal friendship with a vendor which influences a
transaction;
      4.   Outside employment with a vendor;
      5.   Influencing a decision of the Village for personal gain of the
employee or any family member; and/or
      6.   Disclosure of confidential information to a private interest.
   C.   Employees Participating in Procurement. Employees should exercise
extreme care when involved in procurement to avoid any prohibited conflict of
interest. Extreme care is justified because violations of the Procurement Code
carry severe criminal penalties. See N.M.S.A. 1978, § 13-1-199 (certain
violations of the Code are felonies). Any employee involved in procurement is
under a continuing obligation to disclose any actual, potential or apparent
conflicts of interest so that safeguards can be established to protect the
Village. See N.M.S.A. 1978, § 13-1-190. Employees with questions should consult
Human Resources and review the Procurement Code, N.M.S.A. 1978, §§ 13-1-190,
13-1-193, 13-1-194 and 13-1-199. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-2-20: PERSONNEL RECORDS:
   A.   Personnel File. A personnel file will be maintained on each employee.
The personnel file shall be maintained by the Human Resources Department in a
secure location. The personnel file shall include the employee's job
application, resume, test results, training records, performance appraisals,
disciplinary records, employment agreements and a copy of each Personnel Action
issued to the employee. The Personnel File is the property of the Village. Only
one personnel file shall be maintained; departments shall not keep a secondary
personnel file except that a training coordinator or department head may keep
training records that are required pursuant to professional licensure
reporting.
   B.   Inspection of Personnel File. Each employee shall be permitted to
review his or her personnel file. The Human Resources Department may establish
reasonable rules to govern when, and in what manner, such a review may be
accomplished. The employee shall not be permitted to remove anything from the
personnel file but may add a separate supplemental statement to rebut negative
statements found therein or make photocopies.
   C.   Access To Personnel Files. Access to personnel files is strictly
restricted by law. Accordingly, access to an employee's personnel file will be
limited to persons with a legal right to examine the file. A supervisor shall
be permitted to examine the personnel file of an employee under his or her
direct supervision, but only if there is a legitimate business reason to do so.
   D.   Inquiries Concerning Present and Former Employees. Only the Human
Resources Department is authorized to respond to inquiries regarding present
and former employees. Responses to such inquiries will confirm dates of
employment, wage rates, and position(s) held only. No further information will
be released without a written authorization and notarized release signed of the
individual who is the subject of the inquiry, and in some cases, a HIPPA-
compliant release.
   E.   Medical Files. Medical information on each employee and dependents
which is obtained by the Village will be maintained in a separate medical file.
In the event the Village obtains medical information for purposes of evaluating
eligibility for employment, assessing fitness for duty, reviewing a request for
accommodation, or evaluating drug or alcohol use, such information may be
reviewed only by Human Resources, the direct supervisor involved in the
decision, and the Village Manager. Such information may then be maintained in
the employee's medical file. The medical file is a confidential file and may be
inspected only by those with a legal right to do so. A HIPPA- compliant release
may be necessary. Any employee who is permitted to inspect such a file has a
responsibility to respect and maintain the confidentiality of employee medical
information. Anyone inappropriately inspecting a medical file, or disclosing
its contents, is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment.
   F.   Personnel Data Changes. Each employee must within five (5) days notify
the Human Resources Department of any changes in the employee's mailing
address, telephone number, number and names of dependents, individual(s) to be
contacted in the event of an emergency, educational accomplishments, and other
relevant information.
   G.   Job Descriptions: Job titles and job descriptions are established or
amended by the Village Manager, Human Resources, and department directors.
Department directors must draft, and periodically review, job descriptions for
all positions in their department. Proposed job descriptions will be reviewed
and revised by Human Resources, and approved by the Village Manager. Each
department director shall maintain a copy of current job descriptions for job
titles assigned to that department and is responsible for keeping descriptions
current and accurate. Job descriptions are the basis for recruitment, selection
and promotions. They act as guidelines for duties typically performed in a
position, but are not intended to detail every duty an employee may be asked to
perform. Employees are encouraged to provide feedback to their immediate
supervisors concerning their duties and potential revisions to their job
descriptions.
   H.   Employment Applications. The Village relies upon the accuracy of
information contained in the employment application, as well as the accuracy of
other data presented throughout the hiring process and employment. Any
misrepresentations, falsifications, or material omissions in any of this
information or data may result in the Village's exclusion of the individual
from further consideration for employment or, if the person has been hired,
termination of employment. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
CHAPTER 3
COMPENSATION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Pay Periods, Pay Checks, And Timekeeping
2-3-2: Compensation
2-3-3: Paid Time Off
2-3-4: Bereavement Leave
2-3-5: Court Leave
2-3-6: Military Leave
2-3-7: Leave Of Absence
2-3-8: Short Term Disability
2-3-9: Family Medical Leave
2-3-10: Domestic Abuse Leave
2-3-11: Administrative Leave
2-3-12: Insurance And Pension Benefits
2-3-1: PAY PERIODS, PAY CHECKS, AND TIMEKEEPING:
   A.   Pay Period. A "pay period" is a two-week period beginning Sunday at 12:
01 a.m. and ending Saturday at midnight. This method of payment results in
twenty-six (26) pay periods per year.
   B.   Paychecks. Paychecks will be issued every other Thursday at a time and
place determined by the Village Manager. If a holiday falls on Thursday, checks
will be issued on Wednesday. Paychecks may be issued early, but only in cases
of emergency, and only after approval of the Village Manager. Paychecks may be
released to a designee of the employee upon presentation of written
authorization.
   C.   Time Sheets. Time records shall be completed and submitted by the
employee and approved by the employee's immediate supervisor. At the completion
of each pay period, after approval of the supervisor and the Department Head or
Village Manager as appropriate, the time records will be forwarded to the
Finance Department.
   D.   Accuracy of Time Records. It is the responsibility of each employee to
accurately record the time spent on the job performing assigned duties. Each
employee must certify the accuracy of all time recorded. If the employee makes
any corrections or modifications to the time record after submission, the
supervisor must approve those corrections or modifications. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-
24-2024)
2-3-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Pay Plan. The Village has a pay plan. The standards for development of
the plan are determined by the Human Resources Department and approved by the
Village Manager. The Human Resources Department will make periodic studies of
the pay plan and recommend changes as needed. Department Heads must prepare a
pay scale for their departments, which must be approved annually by Village
Council as part of the budget. The pay plan may be inspected in the Human
Resources Department during regular business hours.
   B.   Parity. There is no requirement that all individuals assigned to the
same salary range or position receive the same pay. Factors such as merit
increases, promotions, seniority, or qualifications may cause individual pay
differences within a salary range or position.
   C.   Initial Pay Rate. Newly hired employees entering the Village work force
are paid within the established hourly rate or salary of the position and at a
level based on experience and qualifications. Consideration of prior experience
or expertise may be granted when establishing an employee's initial pay rate.
Any exception to this practice must have the prior approval of the Village
Manager.
   D.   Pay Increase. Employees may receive a salary increase by means of a
Village-wide increase, cost of living adjustment, promotion, reclassification
of a pay grade or salary level, positive work performance, a positive
performance evaluation, acquisition of new skills, assignment of additional
duties, advanced education, longevity, or market data. All pay increases must
be budgeted and approved by the Village Manager.
   E.   Promotion. An employee may also see a pay increase as a result of a
promotion. A promotion occurs when an employee is selected for a position that
has higher pay. The Village encourages employees to apply for promotions and to
develop the skills necessary for promotions. An employee who is promoted shall
receive a salary increase to at least the minimum level of the salary grade for
the new position and the resulting salary must be equal to or greater than the
employee's current salary.
   F.   Overtime. Nonexempt hourly employees may occasionally be required to
work in excess of forty (40) hours per week. Work in excess of forty (40) hours
per week is paid at a rate of one and one-half (1/2) times the employee's
regular hourly rate. This rate is applied to the actual hours worked in excess
of forty (40) hours per week. Compensation for employees engaged in law
enforcement and emergency response occupations may differ, according to
regulations of the Department of Labor under the federal Fair Labor Standards
Act. To the extent possible, overtime will be offered to employees desiring
additional work, but may be required by an employee's supervisor. Each
department may elect to implement a system for assigning overtime, but the
supervisor retains discretion to assign overtime to any employee as necessary.
Such a system is subject to revision at any time, and does not constitute a
contract of employment or guarantee of overtime. All overtime work must be
approved before it is performed except in the case of an emergency or duty that
has been scheduled in advance. Unauthorized overtime worked may be subject to
disciplinary action, except in the case of an emergency or call back.
   G.   Compensatory Time.
      1.   Accrual. Compensatory time is time worked by an hourly employee in
excess of forty (40) hours per week for which the employee elects to receive
time off from work in lieu of overtime pay. For most employees, compensatory
time is compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1/2) hours of time off
from work for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
Compensation for employees engaged in law enforcement and emergency response
occupations may differ, according to regulations of the Department of Labor
under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act. An employee must elect to take
compensatory time in lieu of paid overtime before submitting their time sheet
report. Use of compensatory time must be approved by an employee's immediate
supervisor. Compensatory time off may be accrued, but only to a maximum of
eighty (80) hours. Employees working under a 7k exemption (police, fire
fighters and emergency medical service personnel) may not accrue more than one
hundred forty-four (144) hours of compensatory time. Supervisors shall ensure
that accrued compensatory time not exceed the limitations set forth herein.
      2.   Use. Employees may use accrued compensatory time within a reasonable
time after accrual but in no event more than twelve (12) months from the date
of accrual; compensatory time shall be used before paid time off.
      3.   Leave Donation. Compensatory time shall not be donated to another
employee.
   H.   Acting Pay. The Village Manager may authorize a temporary increase in
an employee's hourly rate or salary for the period an employee is assigned
additional duties and responsibilities of another position. The Village Manager
will determine the time period of the additional duties and the amount (if any)
of the salary increase in coordination with the respective department directors
(s) and/or managers and the Finance Department as appropriate. When the
employee is no longer performing the additional duties, the salary or hourly
rate will be adjusted to the pay appropriate to the position.
   I.   Holiday Pay.
      1.   Paid Holiday Schedule. The Village shall annually determine the paid
holiday schedule and make the schedule available to all employees.
      2.   Holiday Pay. All regular employees shall receive holiday pay at
their regular rate of pay for each holiday on the paid holiday schedule. Part-
time employees shall receive holiday pay based on the amount of time they
normally work (e.g. half (1/2) of one day for employees who work twenty (20)
hours per week). If the holiday falls on the employee's scheduled day off, the
employee shall receive holiday pay for the number of hours the employee would
have normally worked on the holiday, up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours.
Scheduled overtime under an FLSA 7k shall be counted as hours worked, but
unscheduled overtime shall not be counted. If the employee works on the
holiday, the employee shall be paid for the hours worked, and shall also
receive holiday pay as described above, up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours.
Exempt status employees whose work requirements are such that they must work on
an officially designated Village holiday will receive holiday pay commensurate
with the number of hours they normally work, up to a maximum of twelve (12)
hours. Exempt employees may elect to take the additional holiday compensation
as compensatory time.
   J.   Standby Pay. Standby pay is earned when an employee is required to be
available to work after hours. Standby pay is twenty-five percent (25%) of an
employee's hourly rate. An employee is only entitled to standby pay if their
personal activities are restricted and they are required to report to work
within twenty (20) minutes of being called. Employees who are simply required
to carry a cell phone or pager and may pursue personal activities are not
entitled to standby pay. If an employee actually works during a period when the
employee is on standby status, the employee will be paid at the employee's
regular hourly rate for hours worked, and will be eligible for overtime if the
number of hours worked exceeds the amount of hours for which overtime is to be
paid.
   K.   Shift Differential. Nonexempt hourly employees, and employees not
subject to the FLSA who are regularly assigned to work between the hours of
seven o’clock (7:00) p.m. and five o’clock (5:00) a.m. will be paid a shift
differential of seven and half percent (7.5%) for hours worked during that time
period. Shift differential shall not apply during periods of paid leave. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-3: PAID TIME OFF:
   A.   Goal. Paid time off is intended to provide employees with paid time off
that is used for a wide variety of needs such as vacation, personal or family
illness, doctor appointments, school, volunteerism, and other activities. The
Village's goal in offering PTO is to reduce unscheduled absences, and to reduce
the need for increased supervisory oversight regarding work attendance.
   B.   Requirements.
      1.   Each regular full-time employee accrues PTO bi-weekly in increments
based on either their position or their length of service as described in the
table below.
      2.   PTO accrues only when the employee is working or using accrued PTO
for the entire bi-weekly pay period. PTO does not accrue in a pay period when
unpaid leave, short- or long-term disability leave, or workers' compensation
leave are taken.
      3.   PTO accrued shall be posted on the closing day of each pay period.
PTO used shall be deducted from the employee's accrued PTO as PTO is used.
      4.   PTO may be used by making a timely request to the supervisor or,
when PTO is used for an illness, by calling in to the supervisor. PTO is used
in half-hour increments. Exempt employees shall request PTO in four (4) hour
increments. Except when the requested PTO is for medical diagnosis or
treatment, the department director or the Village Manager shall determine when
PTO may be taken consistent with the needs of the Village.
      5.   Employees will be given preference for scheduling PTO time according
to the continuous length of service.
      6.   Employees are paid for the PTO they have accrued at employment
termination. Employees who give two (2) weeks' notice of employment termination
must work the two (2) weeks without utilizing PTO.
      7.   Employees on PTO for the purpose of medical diagnosis or treatment
may be required to submit a doctor's note to justify the PTO, or a release to
return to work.
      8.   PTO shall be exhausted before unpaid leave under FMLA is taken.
   C.   Accrual of PTO. PTO shall be accrued according to the following
schedule:
 
                             120 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 0-1:                   4.62 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
                             144 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 2-5:                   5.54 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
                             176 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 6-10:                  6.79 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
                             200 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 11-15:                 7.69 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
                             224 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 16-20:                 8.62 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
                             240 working hours per year, earned at a rate of
Years 21-25:                 9.23 hours for each full pay period in a calendar
                             year.
Years 26 through retirement: 264 working hours per year, at a rate of 10.15
                             hours for each full pay period in a calendar year.
 
   D.   Annual Carry Forward Limits
      1.   Regular full-time employees shall be allowed to accrue and carry
forward PTO on an annual basis based on length of service, in accordance with
the following schedule. Exempt employees hired in certain department director
positions, by virtue of their position, experience and responsibilities, may be
approved for higher annual carry forward limits than those based solely on
years of service to the Village of Angel Fire. Any higher annual carry forward
limit for PTO shall always be recorded in a memorandum signed by the Mayor,
Village Manager and the employee and maintained in the employee's Employee
File. Each regular part time employee shall accrue and carry forward one-half
(1/2) of the same schedule. All carry forward limits will be adjusted as of
July 1 of each year in order to coincide with the Village's fiscal calendar.
All accrued PTO in excess of the employee's carry forward limits will be
forfeited. Any exception to annual carry forward limits for PTO hours must be
approved in writing by the Village Manager.
      2.   Years of service:
Years Hours
Years           Hours
0 - 1           120 working hours
2 - 5           212 working hours
6 - 10          264 working hours
11 - 15         300 working hours
16 - 20         336 working hours
21 - 25         360 working hours
26 - retirement 360 working hours
 
(Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-4: BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
Bereavement Leave Requirements. Each full-time, part-time, unclassified and
trial period employee shall be eligible to receive bereavement leave with pay
in the event of the death of an immediate family member. For purposes of this
section, an "immediate family member" is defined as a spouse, child, parent,
sibling, grandparent, grandchild, step-parent, step-child, step-sibling, foster
child, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law and daughter-in-law, and
brother-in-law and sister-in-law, niece, or nephew. Bereavement leave shall not
exceed forty (40) hours for non-salaried hourly employees or five (5) working
days for salaried employees. In the event funeral services occur out of state,
an employee may be permitted to extend his or her bereavement leave using
accrued PTO. An employee shall obtain the approval of his or her supervisor
prior to taking bereavement leave. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-5: COURT LEAVE:
Court Leave Requirements. Each full-time regular, part-time regular,
unclassified and trial period employee may take Court leave with pay when
required to serve as a juror or as a witness in any state or federal court at a
time when the employee would normally be working, except in a matter unrelated
to the performance of the employee's duties in which the employee is a
litigant. If excused from duty by the Court when four (4) or more work hours
remain in the employee's workday, the employee shall return to work. If an
employee elects to take Court leave with pay, any fee paid to the employee as a
juror or witness must be paid to the Village. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-6: MILITARY LEAVE:
Military Leave Requirements. Each regular full-time, regular part-time and
unclassified employee who is a member of a National Guard or reserve unit may
obtain military leave with pay when ordered to duty with the armed forces. The
duration of the paid leave is limited to that required by federal law. If the
period of duty exceeds that required by federal law, the employee may use
accrued vacation leave, the employee's personal leave day and/or leave without
pay for the duration of the employee's duty period. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-7: LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
   A.   Unpaid Leave of Absence. An employee may request and take a leave of
absence without pay not to exceed four (4) months, so long as the leave, and
the duration of the leave, is approved by the Village Manager in advance. An
employee on unpaid leave not covered under the FMLA may maintain his/her health
insurance coverage by paying the total cost of the insurance premium.
   B.   Return from Leave of Absence. An employee on leave of absence must
contact the department director and the Human Resources Department a minimum of
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the unpaid leave stating his or her
intentions. There is no guarantee except as provided under the FMLA that the
employee's former position or any position will be available to the employee
upon expiration of the leave without pay. An employee who fails to timely
return from leave or whose former position is no longer available will be
deemed to have resigned. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-8: SHORT TERM DISABILITY:
   A.   Eligibility. An employee may go on short-term disability to address a
serious health issue for up to two (2) weeks. Any further leave that is needed
shall require the employee to use PTO or FMLA. Medical documentation of the
need for a leave must be provided.
   B.   Extended Disability. If, at the end of the period of temporary
disability leave, the employee wishes to request an extension, the employee
must petition the Village Manager. The Village Manager may order a physical or
mental examination at the Village's expense to justify the request. The Village
Manager shall determine, after review of the medical findings, if the employee
shall be granted additional thirty (30) calendar days of short-term disability
leave. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-9: FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE:
Requirements. The federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides for a leave
of absence for a serious health condition, to fulfill family obligations
relating directly to childbirth, adoption, or placement of a foster child, or
to care for a child, spouse, or parent with a serious health condition. An
employee must request family and medical leave, on a form provided by the
Personnel Department. Each employee is entitled to take up to twelve (12) weeks
of family and medical leave each calendar year. Employees may be entitled to up
to twenty-six (26) weeks to care for a covered military servicemember. FMLA
leave is cumulative of other leave the employee may have accrued such as PTO,
but may run concurrently with PTO. Eligibility is determined by reference to
federal law and regulations and is assessed on a case-by- case basis. If an
employee has questions concerning eligibility, he or she should consult the
Personnel Department. Employees requesting family leave are required to provide
a statement from a health care provider concerning the need for such leave.
Family and medical leave is unpaid leave. However, during the unpaid leave, the
Village will provide major medical benefits, if that coverage has been elected
by the employee. The employee will be required to pay to the Village the
portion of the premium the employee would have had to pay had he or she still
been working. Leave benefits, such as PTO, or holiday pay, will be suspended
during family and medical leave. If the Family and Medical Leave Act benefit is
exhausted and the employee is unable or chooses not to return to work, the
employee will be terminated. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-10: DOMESTIC ABUSE LEAVE:
   A.   Eligibility. An employee may take domestic abuse leave to exercise
rights granted by State law. Domestic abuse leave is intermittent paid or
unpaid leave time not to exceed fourteen (14) days in any calendar year, taken
by an employee for up to eight (8) hours in one day, to obtain or attempt to
obtain an order of protection or other judicial relief from domestic abuse or
to meet with law enforcement officials, to consult with attorneys or district
attorneys' victim advocates or to attend court proceedings related to the
domestic abuse of an employee or an employee's family member. "Family member"
means a minor child of the employee or a person for whom the employee is a
legal guardian.
   B.   Notice of Leave. Notice of the need for leave shall be given within
reasonable time prior to commencement of the leave, or within twenty-four (24)
hours of commencing such leave.
   C.   Verification of Eligibility. Verification of the need for domestic
abuse leave may be required. Verification may be made either through a police
report evidencing domestic abuse of the employee or a family member; a copy of
an order of protection or other court order; or a written statement by the
employee's attorney, a victim's advocate, a law enforcement official or a
prosecuting attorney that the employee did or is scheduled to appear in court
in connection with a domestic abuse incident.
   D.   Charged Against PTO. Domestic abuse leave will be charged against
accrued PTO, and if insufficient PTO has accrued for such purpose, the leave
will be unpaid.
   E.   Confidentiality. Information provided to or obtained by the Village
relating to allegations of domestic abuse shall be kept confidential, unless
the employee consents to permit release of such information, or if a court
order, subpoena or other Federal or State law requires disclosure. (Ord. 2024-
09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-11: ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE:
Authority. The Village Manager, or his or her designee, is the only person with
the authority to place an employee on administrative leave with or without pay.
Administrative leave may be utilized in the discretion of the Village Manager
as is deemed necessary. An employee's direct supervisor may in emergent
circumstances immediately suspend an employee on a temporary basis until the
Village Manager has an opportunity to consider administrative leave. An
employee may not challenge an administrative-leave decision under any provision
of this chapter. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-3-12: INSURANCE AND PENSION BENEFITS:
   A.   Eligibility. Insurance and pension benefits are available to all
regular full-time employees. Partial benefits are available to all regular
part-time employees who are regularly scheduled a minimum of twenty-seven (27)
hours per pay period. See the Human Resources Department for further details.
   B.   Medical Insurance. Each full-time regular and full-time trial period
employee, unclassified employee, Elected Official, and their eligible
dependents may obtain group medical care through the Village's medical plan
sponsored by the State of New Mexico. Regular part-time employees may enroll in
the medical plan, and the premium is adjusted on a pro rata basis depending on
the number of hours the employee works. For example, if a regular part-time
employee normally works a half day, the employee will pay fifty percent (50%)
of the contribution a full-time employee would normally make. The employee's
contribution shall be made by payroll deduction. The specific details of the
plan are set out in a pamphlet available from the Human Resources Department.
Coverage, if elected, will become effective on the first day of the third full
pay period following the date the employee begins work and will continue in
effect until the employee leaves employment, or until the plan is discontinued,
or as otherwise provided in this Personnel Policy.
   C.   Vision Plan. Each full-time regular employee, full-time trial period
and unclassified employee, and eligible dependents and spouse, may participate
in the vision plan provided by the Village. The plan requires no contribution
by the employee, and pays a specified sum for eye examinations, single lenses,
bi-focal lenses, tri-focal lenses, lenticular lenses, contact lenses and
frames. Details concerning the plan are available through the Human Resources
Department.
   D.   Prescription Plan. Any employee and dependent who participates in the
Village's medical insurance program may also participate in the prescription
program. Under this program, prescription drugs may be purchased at
participating pharmacies for an appropriate co-payment. The amount of the co-
payment changes from time to time and each employee should consult the Human
Resources Department for up-to-date information and claim forms.
   E.   EAP. Any employee may contact a counseling service provided by the
Village to receive matrimonial counseling, psychological counseling and/or drug
and alcohol counseling. The service is provided free of charge. The service is
confidential, unless the employee is referred by a supervisor, in which case
the supervisor will be informed only whether or not the employee has
participated in and completed the counseling. It is the employee's
responsibility to seek assistance from the Employee Assistance Program prior to
reaching a point where his or her judgment, performance, or behavior has led to
disciplinary action. Any referral by the EAP to an outside treatment facility
may be covered under the major medical plan (if elected), under the provisions
of that plan.
   F.   Dental Insurance. Each full-time regular, trial period and unclassified
employee, each Elected Official, and their dependents, may receive dental
insurance coverage through the group dental insurance plan. The plan requires
payment of a premium by the employee, which will be met through payroll
deduction. The Village does not contribute to the plan.
   G.   Worker's Compensation. Each Village employee is covered by the
Village's workers' compensation program pursuant to the New Mexico Workers'
Compensation Act. The workers' compensation program provides benefits to an
eligible employee who suffers a job- related injury. Any employee placed on
workers' compensation as a result of a work-related injury shall receive his or
her regular pay or salary during the first full week of disability.
Compensation for work-related injuries beyond the first week of disability is
strictly limited by the Workers' Compensation Act, and nothing herein shall be
construed as extending benefits under the Village program not explicitly
required by the Act. Any employee placed on workers' compensation who cannot
return to work within six (6) months of the date of the accident or injury
which results in the disability shall be terminated but shall be eligible to
re-apply for a position with the Village pursuant to the terms of the Workers'
Compensation Act. Questions concerning workers' compensation should be directed
to the Human Resources Department.
   H.   Public Employees Retirement Association. Each eligible employee
participates in the Village's mandatory retirement program, administered by the
Public Employees Retirement Association ("P.E.R.A."). Eligibility of employees
to participate in the program is determined by the New Mexico statutes and by
P.E.R.A. Mandatory employee contributions to the plan are made by payroll
deduction and forwarded to P.E.R.A. The Village also contributes to the cost of
the program, but Village's contributions will generally cease while an employee
is on unpaid leave of absence or on a workers' compensation absence. Might
double check the workers' comp part of this. Details concerning eligibility and
other details of the retirement program are set forth in the New Mexico
Statutes Annotated and the publications of the P.E.R.A., which are provided to
the employee directly by the P.E.R.A. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
CHAPTER 4
POLICIES AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Employee Discipline
2-4-2: Harassment And Discrimination
2-4-3: Equal Employment Opportunity
2-4-4: Disability
2-4-5: Whistleblowing
2-4-6: Respect For Coworkers
2-4-7: Safety And Accident Prevention
2-4-8: Fitness For Duty
2-4-9: Social Media
2-4-10: Smoke Free Workplace
2-4-11: Drug And Alcohol Free Workplace
2-4-12: Concealed Carry
2-4-13: Human Resources Actions
2-4-14:    Donation Of Paid Time Off/Leave Policy
2-4-15:    Recording Of Meetings And Conversations Policy
 
Notes
1    See also Violation Of Policy, §
  2-1-4
2-4-1: EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Chain of Command. The Village adheres to a chain of command structure.
The Village has prepared and uses an Organizational Chart to describe the chain
of command for Village decision-making. The Village Manager is the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Village and is subject to direction by the Mayor,
who is the Chief Executive Officer of the Village, and the Village Council.
Department directors work for and report for purposes of the chain of command
to the Village Manager. Each department director shall prepare the department's
individual organizational chart depicting the chain of command in that
department, which be provided to each employee within the department. The
department director is responsible for supplying to the Village Manager and
Human Resources Department a current organizational chart of the department.
   B.   Discipline and Disciplinary Termination.
      1.   Authority to Take Disciplinary Action. Supervisory and managerial
personnel have the responsibility and obligation to take whatever disciplinary
actions are deemed necessary, within a reasonable period of time after the need
for disciplinary action becomes apparent in the best interests of the Village.
All disciplinary action shall be coordinated through Human Resources.
      2.   Forms of Disciplinary Action. The following are forms of
disciplinary action that may be imposed in the discretion of the Village. The
Village may elect to utilize progressive discipline but is not required to do
so. Any appropriate form of disciplinary action, up to and including
termination, may be imposed regardless of whether the employee has previously
been disciplined.
         a.   Oral Reprimand. An oral reprimand is generally used for minor
offenses or to correct minor flaws an employee's performance. Oral reprimands
should be documented in an employee's personnel file.
         b.   Written Reprimand. A written reprimand may be issued for an
offense of a more serious nature which requires more formal action than an oral
reprimand. Employees shall have ten (10) working days to respond in writing to
a written reprimand. The written reprimand and the employee's response shall
become a part of the employee's personnel file.
         c.   Suspension.
            (1)   A suspension may be ordered for an offense of a more serious
nature or for repeat of a minor offense. An employee may be suspended for a
period not to exceed ten (10) working days. During a suspension, an employee
will not be paid or accrue benefits. Each suspension shall be recorded and
filed in the employee's personnel file. Suspensions shall not be imposed for
any salaried or FLSA "exempt" employee.
            (2)   The duration of the suspension shall be discretionary on the
part of the supervisor and shall be commensurate with the severity of the
error, mistake, or conduct. Consideration may be given to previous discipline.
         d.   Demotion. An employee may be demoted for an offense of a more
serious nature or for repeat of a minor offense. The employee may be demoted to
a lesser position for which the employee is otherwise qualified. When demoted,
the employee will receive compensation commensurate with the new position.
         e.   Termination. Grounds for disciplinary action. Listed below are
some, but not all, of the activities which are considered grounds for the
severest of disciplinary actions. Grounds for disciplinary action include,
without limitation, but by way of illustration, the following:
            (1)   Unsatisfactory performance of duties.
            (2)   Failure to meet the expectations set forth in a performance
development plan.
            (3)   Producing defective work through carelessness or negligence,
or concealing defective work.
            (4)   Personal conduct which substantially interferes with the
performance of duties.
            (5)   Conflict of interest which results in private gain to the
employee or detriment to the Village.
            (6)   Insubordination.
            (7)   Falsifying official documents or records.
            (8)   Misrepresentation.
            (9)   Absence from work or work station without permission or
satisfactory explanation.
            (10)   Excessive absences or tardiness.
            (11)   Fighting, assault, or any conduct that endangers another
person.
            (12)   Threatening or harassing an employee or Elected Official.
            (13)   Abusive language or conduct.
            (14)   Theft or vandalism of Village property.
            (15)   Unauthorized use or possession of Village property.
            (16)   Unauthorized use of Village credit cards or resources.
            (17)   Violation of safety practices.
            (18)   Sleeping during work hours.
            (19)   Use of, or being under the influence of, a controlled
substance, or intoxicant, while on duty.
            (20)   Refusing to take a drug or alcohol test.
            (21)   Refusing to take a fitness for duty test.
            (22)   Operation of a Village vehicle or equipment while under the
influence of a controlled substance or intoxicant.
            (23)   Operating a Village vehicle or equipment in a reckless or
intentionally tortious manner.
            (24)   Accepting a bribe or consideration given with the intent to
influence the performance of duty.
            (25)   Bribery or coercion of, or attempting to bribe or coerce, an
employee or Elected Official.
            (26)   Influencing, or attempting to influence, a Hearing Officer,
other than through established procedures related to a hearing under this
chapter.
            (27)   Conviction of a felony so long as the criminal conviction
directly relates to the particular employment, trade, business or profession;
            (28)   Harassment, or sexual harassment.
            (29)   Possession of a weapon on Village property (except in
connection with authorized Village duties, or as authorized in this chapter).
            (30)   Conduct causing the Village embarrassment, disgrace, or
otherwise to be viewed in a negative light.
      3.   Procedures for Disciplinary Termination, Demotion, Suspension.
         a.   Disciplinary Process. The following procedures apply when a
supervisor proposes to suspend, demote, or dismiss a classified employee who
has completed the probationary period.
         b.   Delivery of Correspondence. The Village will make an effort to
hand deliver correspondence to the employee including but not limited to
disciplinary action forms, memos, or documents. When hand delivery is not
practical, correspondence will be mailed by priority mail, certified return
receipt requested, or sent by electronic mail to the employee's Village email
account. Such correspondence shall be considered served when placed in the mail
or when the email is transmitted. Employees are required to maintain a current
address with the Human Resources Department and to notify the Human Resources
Department in writing when that address changes. Items will be delivered to the
address of record. For the purpose of this Section, days mean workdays to
include Monday through Friday and not to include holidays or time when the
Village Administrative Offices are closed.
         c.   Notification of Proposed Disciplinary Action. To initiate the
suspension, demotion, or dismissal of a classified employee or an employee in
term status who has completed the probationary period, the employee's
Department Director or designee will serve a Notice of Proposed Disciplinary
Action on the employee. The Notice shall be approved by Human Resources, and
maintained in the employee's personnel file. The Notice of Proposed
Disciplinary Action shall describe the conduct, actions, or omissions that form
the basis of the proposed disciplinary action, give a general explanation of
the evidence of such conduct, actions, or omissions, and include the date, time
and place of the pre-determination hearing.
         d.   Pre-Determination Hearing. The employee shall be given an
opportunity to respond to the proposed suspension, demotion, or dismissal at a
pre-determination (Loudermill) hearing. The pre- determination hearing shall be
recorded. The employee's immediate supervisor, Department Director/or designee,
and a representative from the Human Resources Department shall be present at
the pre-determination hearing. A representative of the Village Attorney's
Office may be present at the pre-determination hearing. The employee has the
right to have a representative of his or her choice present during the hearing.
Pre-determination hearings will be held within ten (10) working days from the
date of hand delivery or certified mailing of the proposed discipline. This
period may be extended in the discretion of the Village, with notice to the
employee. The pre-determination hearing is not an evidentiary hearing but is an
opportunity for the employee to present his or her version of events. It is a
check against mistaken decisions, a determination of whether there are
reasonable grounds to believe that the charges against the employee support the
proposed discipline.
         e.   Decision On Disciplinary Action. Regardless of whether an
employee attends the pre-determination hearing, the Human Resources Director or
designee shall issue a Notice of Final Action within ten (10) working days
following the pre-determination hearing. The Notice of Final Action shall
specify the final action to be taken, which may be upholding the proposed
disciplinary action, modifying the disciplinary action, or reversing the
disciplinary action, and shall describe the conduct that forms the basis for
the disciplinary action, gives a general explanation of the evidence the
Village has, and specify when the disciplinary action will become effective.
The Notice of Final Action shall also advise the employee of the appeal rights
set forth below.
         f.   Appeal of Disciplinary Action. If the employee or past employee
wishes to appeal the termination, suspension, or demotion he or she shall
submit a written appeal to the Village Manager within five (5) working days
from the date he or she was served with the decision on the disciplinary
action. The Village Manager will review all pertinent information and will
either confirm, modify, or reject the disciplinary action. The Village Manager
may request additional information or documentation before rendering a
decision. The Village Manager will render a written decision by issuing a
Notice of Final Action on Appeal within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt of the appeal.
         g.   Review. An employee or former employee aggrieved at the decision
of the Village Manager may request review of the decision before the Village
hearing officer. An employee or previous employee must exhaust the
administrative remedies set forth herein prior to filing a request for hearing
as set forth in this Section.
         h.   Time. A request for a post-determination hearing must be made in
writing and filed with Human Resources no later than ten (10) calendar days
from service of the written decision of the Village Manager. A copy of the
Notice of Final Action and a statement of the specific grounds for the hearing
must accompany the request.
         i.   Forfeiture. Failure to file an appeal within ten (10) calendar
days shall constitute forfeiture of the right to appeal.
         j.   Hearing Officer. The Village will select a hearing officer deemed
capable of providing a fair and impartial hearing to the person or employee.
         k.   Hearing Date. The Hearing Officer shall set a hearing date no
more than sixty (60) days from the receipt of the request for a post-
determination hearing. This timeline can be extended by the hearing officer for
cause or by written agreement of the employee and the Village.
         l.   Representation. The employee may represent him or herself or
designate a person who is not an employee of the Village to represent him or
her. The Department Director or person initiating the disciplinary action must
be represented at the hearing. The employee and the Village may each choose to
have an attorney as a representative at the hearing.
         m.   Evidence/Subpoena. Oral evidence shall be taken only under oath
or affirmation. The Hearing Officer has the authority to administer oaths,
issue subpoenas, witnesses and compel either party to produce documents
pertinent to the hearing.
         n.   Employee Testimony. As a condition of employment, employees may
be required to appear as witnesses in hearings. Refusal by an employee to
testify in an appeal hearing is grounds for disciplinary action. The hearing
shall be conducted in an orderly and informal manner without strict adherence
to the rules of evidence that govern proceedings in the courts of the State of
New Mexico. Irrelevant immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded.
         o.   Conduct of Hearing. The Hearing Officer shall control the conduct
of all parties and all other persons present at the hearing. The Hearing
Officer may, under the appropriate circumstance:
            (1)   Remove any person from the hearing room;
            (2)   Close the hearing to the general public;
            (3)   Exclude all witnesses until they are called to testify;
            (4)   Continue the hearing to a later time and date; and
            (5)   Take any other action the Hearing Officer determines is
necessary to ensure orderly proceedings and conduct a fair and impartial
hearing.
         The hearing shall be recorded.
         p.   Burden. The Village shall have the burden of supporting the
discipline and shall present its evidence first.
         q.   Presentation. Each party shall have the right to make opening and
closing statements; call and examine witnesses and introduce exhibits; cross-
examine witnesses; impeach any witnesses; and rebut any relevant evidence.
         r.   Administrative Notice. The hearing officer may take
administrative notice of those matters of which courts of this state may take
judicial notice.
         s.   Forfeiture. An employee or person who files a request for a
hearing and fails to appear or participate in the appeal process forfeits the
right to continue the appeal. The record of the hearing shall reflect and take
into consideration the employee's failure to appear or to participate in the
appeal process.
         t.   Decision. The hearing officer shall determine whether the
disciplinary action was justified under the circumstances. The hearing officer
will make a recommendation to the Village Manager within a reasonable time
following the completion of the hearing. The Village Manager will render a
final decision after reviewing the hearing officer's recommendation. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-2: HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION:
   A.   Freedom From Discrimination And Harassment. All employees shall enjoy a
work environment free of unlawful discrimination and harassment. Harassment
includes the display or circulation of written materials or pictures degrading
to gender, racial, ethnic, religious, minority, or other class or status, and
verbal remarks or conduct offense to, directed at, or made in the presence of
members of a racial, ethnic, minority, or other protected group. Harassment
also refers to bullying or other behavior or conduct which impairs morale or
interferes with the work effectiveness of employees. Sexual harassment includes
harassment that includes unwelcome or inappropriate sexual remarks of sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors or other offensive verbal or physical
conduct that is sexual in nature. This includes jokes of a sexual nature,
display of photos or pin-ups of nude or scantily clad individuals or comments
about a person's appearance or dress or sexual behavior.
   B.   Employees Engaging In Discrimination Or Harassment To Be Disciplined.
Any discrimination or harassment of any employee by any other employee will not
be permitted, regardless of the working relationship between the participants.
Any employee found to have engaged in any type of harassment shall be subject
to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   C.   Reporting and Correcting Harassment. Department Heads, managers or
supervisory personnel shall immediately halt any harassment of which they
observe or become aware of, by disciplinary action if necessary. In addition,
each Department Head, manager, or supervisor is required to report any incident
of harassment or discrimination to Human Resources. All employees are
encouraged to report any harassment they witness to Human Resources. The
Village will, to the extent feasible, keep reports confidential. The Village
prohibits any form of retaliation against an employee for reporting harassment.
   D.   Making A Formal Charge. Any employee who believes he or she has been
subjected to discrimination or harassment by an employee of the Village may
file a formal charge of harassment with the Human Resources Director. The
employee will be asked at that time to complete and sign a complaint form. Each
charge for which a complaint form has been completed shall be immediately
investigated by the Human Resources Director, who shall prepare a report
setting forth the facts of the incident and a recommendation for action. The
report and recommendation for action shall be transmitted to the Village
Manager, who may instruct that the recommended action or other appropriate
steps be taken. The Village prohibits any form of retaliation against any
employee for filing a complaint form or assisting in an investigation. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-3: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
   A.   Policy. The Village is an equal opportunity employer. It is the policy
of the Village to ensure equal employment opportunity to all persons regardless
of their race, religion, color, creed, national origin, age, sex, marital
status, ancestry, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, military status,
physical or mental disability (unless such disability effectively prevents the
performance of essential job functions required by the position), medical
condition, pregnancy, child birth, or condition related to pregnancy or child
birth. In addition, the Village complies with state and federal statutes, rules
and regulations pertaining to equal opportunity. Through the procurement
process, the Village also endeavors to encourage those who do business with the
Village to practice Equal Employment Opportunity.
   B.   Equal Employment Opportunity Program. In order to implement its policy
of equal employment opportunity, the Village maintains an Equal Employment
Opportunity Program, which consists of the following elements.
      1.   Periodic Review. The Village periodically reviews each position
within the Village to ensure that the stated qualifications, salary, fringe
benefits, training and educational opportunities are relevant to the tasks
performed. The Village examines internal policies and procedures to identify
barriers to equal employment opportunity.
      2.   Training. The Village also requires that staff and management be
provided with training, information and guidance so that equal employment
opportunity is assured.
      3.   Job Satisfaction/Fair Treatment. The Village actively encourages
each employee to increase his or her skills and job potential through training
and educational opportunities. The Village periodically offers guidance and
counseling in developing programs tailored to individual aptitudes and desires.
The Village works to create and maintain a pool of qualified applicants for
positions with frequent turnover to encourage diversity and ensure equal
employment opportunity in hiring.
      4.   Non-Discriminatory Application Of Policies. The Village works to
ensure that each promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff and termination of
employment is administered in a fair and non-discriminatory basis.
      5.   Compliance With Applicable Laws And Regulations. The Village
complies with applicable laws and regulations relating to equal employment
opportunity. In addition, the Village carries out its reporting functions
required by state and federal laws and furnishes information as required to
meet its commitments under Executive Order No. 11246, as amended. The Village
cooperates in special compliance reviews or in investigations as requested,
carries out minority reporting functions as required by state or federal laws,
furnishes such information as is required and maintains an affirmative action
file detailing its efforts, with dates, to meet its commitments under Executive
Order No. 11246, as amended.
      6.   Violations. Any and all violations of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Program must be immediately brought to the attention of the Human
Resources Director.
      7.   Equal Employment Opportunity Officer. The Human Resources Director
shall serve as the Village's Equal Employment Opportunity Officer. The Equal
Employment Opportunity Officer shall be charged with the responsibility of
administering and enforcing the Village's Equal Employment Opportunity Program.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Officer shall advise and assist staff and
management personnel in guaranteeing equal employment opportunity. The Equal
Employment Opportunity Officer shall also provide orientation for each new
employee which emphasizes the manner in which the Village assures equal
employment opportunity. The Equal Employment Opportunity Officer shall
recommend changes in the Equal Employment Opportunity Program and Village
policies to the Village Manager, as appropriate. The Equal Employment
Opportunity Officer shall coordinate the Village's response to special
compliance reviews or investigations. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-4: DISABILITY:
   A.   Prohibition of Discrimination. The Village prohibits discrimination in
all employment practices, including job application procedures, hiring, firing,
advancement, compensation, and other terms, conditions and privileges of
employment.
   B.   Accommodation. The Village will provide reasonable accommodations to
qualified applicants and employees unless accommodation would pose an undue
hardship. An individual desiring a reasonable accommodation should submit a
request to Human Resources.
   C.   Formal Charge. Making A Formal Charge. Any employee who believes he or
she has been subjected to discrimination based on disability may file a formal
charge of with the Human Resources Director. The employee will be asked at that
time to complete and sign a complaint form. Each charge for which a complaint
form has been completed shall be immediately investigated by the Human
Resources Director, who shall prepare a report setting forth the facts of the
incident and a recommendation for action. The report and recommendation for
action shall be transmitted to the Village Manager, who may instruct that the
recommended action or other appropriate steps be taken. The Village prohibits
any form of retaliation against any employee for filing a complaint form or
assisting in an investigation. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-5: WHISTLEBLOWING:
   A.   Protection for Whistleblowers. The Village will protect employees who
report in good faith what they reasonably believe to be a violation of state or
federal law or conditions or practices that would put the health or safety of
employees at risk. Employees shall report the alleged violation, condition, or
practice to their supervisor and to Human Resources. No employee will be
discharged, threatened, or discriminated against in any manner for reporting
what he or she perceives in good faith to be wrongdoing. The right of a
whistleblower to have protection from retaliation does not, however, include
immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated.
   B.   Confidentiality. Insofar as possible, the confidentiality of the
whistleblower shall be maintained. But identity may have to be disclosed to
conduct a thorough investigation, to comply with the law, and to provide those
implicated an ability to respond.
   C.   Protected Activities. The following are examples of activities in which
employees have a right to participate without being subjected to adverse
action:
      1.   Filing discrimination charges with the EEOC or a state human rights
agency.
      2.   Filing unfair labor practice charges with an appropriate agency.
      3.   Filing a worker's compensation claim.
      4.   Filing a complaint with OSHA about safety hazards or refusing an
assignment because of fear that it might be dangerous.
      5.   Engaging in lawful union activities.
      6.   Claiming an equal pay or wage/hour law violation.
      7.   Opposing policies that may violate laws.
      8.   Reporting fraud, or corruption.
      9.   Reporting discrimination or harassment to the Village.
   D.   Complaints. An employee may report a potential violation of this policy
to Human Resources within ten (10) days of discovering the issue. The Village
prohibits any form of retaliation against any employee for filing a complaint
or assisting in an investigation. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-6: RESPECT FOR COWORKERS:
   A.   Gossip. The Village expects its employees to treat each other with
respect. Gossiping is harmful to the workplace and should be avoided by all
employees. Incidents of gossiping may subject employees to discipline. This
policy does not apply to discussions by and among employees permitted by law,
including discussions of wages and terms and conditions of employment.
   B.   Bullying. The Village does not tolerate bullying of any kind. An
employee who uses words, threats, intimidation or other behavior to improperly
influence, harm, and/or coerce another employee will face disciplinary action
up to and including termination. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-7: SAFETY AND ACCIDENT PREVENTION:
   A.   Working Safely. Each employee must be informed of and observe
established safety practices. Each employee is to take all possible precautions
to avoid exposure to injury or illness to themselves or others. Each employee
must utilize appropriate personal protective equipment such as steel-toed
shoes, safety vests, safety glasses, and hard hats. No employee is permitted to
remove guards or other protective devices from machinery and equipment.
Employees shall refrain from operating, modifying, adjusting or using equipment
in an unauthorized manner or working alone. Employees are prohibited from
engaging in "horseplay."
   B.   Duty To Report Hazardous Or Unsafe Conditions. Each employee has the
duty to report each unsafe working practice or hazardous condition which he or
she observes so that the problem can be immediately corrected.
   C.   Supervision. Each supervisor has the duty to ensure that each employee
is acquainted with proper safety practices and applicable safety rules, that
safe practices and safety rules are uniformly followed, and that employees are
properly outfitted with the proper safety equipment. In the event an accident
occurs, the supervisor is required to report the incident promptly, complete
the Supervisor's First Report of Accident, and forward the completed form to
Human Resources.
   D.   Safety Training. Each employee is required to attend safety training
sessions scheduled by the Village. In addition, each employee must obtain
safety-related certification as required by the Village. Each supervisor and
person in charge of a group or groups of employees is required to possess a
valid first aid certificate. In addition, an alternate person in each crew or
group shall hold a valid first aid card. These employees may be required to
periodically attend first aid courses and obtain certification. See OSHA
Medical and First Aid Standards (29 C.F.R. § 1910.151). Each employee who is
required to act as flagger must complete an approved Flagging course.
   E.   Injuries On The Job. Each employee is required to report all job-
related injuries or illnesses to his or her supervisor immediately and assist
in any resulting investigation.
   F.   Motor Vehicle Accidents. If a Village employee is involved in a motor
vehicle accident while performing his or her official duties, the employee must
assist persons at the scene and request that a law enforcement officer be
called. The employee should also request that the parties and the properties
involved remain at the scene of the accident until a law enforcement officer
has released them. The Village Manager, Safety Officer, and Human Resources
must be notified of the accident as soon as possible. The employee shall
refrain from making statements regarding the accident with anyone other than
the investigating officers, Village Attorney(s), City Manager, Human Resources
Director, and representatives of his or her own insurance company, if the
employee's vehicle is involved.
   G.   Accidents Involving Defective Equipment. When an accident occurs that
raises the possibility of defective equipment, the employee should immediately
attend to any injuries of employees or others, and then refer the matter to his
or her supervisor, who shall consult with the Village Safety Officer, Village
Manager, and Human Resources Director. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-8: FITNESS FOR DUTY:
   A.   Medical Inquiries and Examinations. The Village may inquire into an
employee's fitness for duty, or require an employee to undergo a medical
examination if job-related and consistent with business necessity. Medical
examinations may be conducted for cause when there is reliable information of a
change in abilities or health that may affect performance of the essential
functions of the position and threaten the safety of the employee or others.
   B.   Public Safety Positions. The Village may require periodic fitness for
duty examinations by a qualified psychiatrist, psychologist, or physician, or
other medical examinations, for employees holding safety sensitive positions,
such as police, fire, emergency medical, and public works employees, when in
the Village's estimation there is cause for concern and it is in the best
interests of the public, Village, employee, or department. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-
24-2024)
2-4-9: SOCIAL MEDIA:
   A.   Defined. Social media is a means of communication on the internet that
is accomplished by posting information for other to read, comment on, or
respond to. It includes, but is not limited to communicating with others on a
web log or blog, an electronic journal or diary, a personal internet website,
communicating through a social networking or affinity website (e.g. Facebook,
Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, Linkedln), a web bulletin board, chat room,
instant messaging site, video or photo sharing site (e.g. YouTube), forums,
discussion boards and groups (e.g. Google groups, instant messaging (including
SMS), a wiki or online collaboration site (e.g. Wikipedia), a blog hosted by a
media outlet, geo-spatial tagging, vod and podcasting, micro blog (e.g.
Twitter/X), gaming platforms, or chat rooms.
   B.   Social Media at Work.
      1.   In an effort to reach a broader audience of residents for a variety
of reasons, the Village participates in social media. The use of social media
allows the Village to disseminate time-sensitive information as quickly as
possible (e.g. emergency information). The Village Manager shall determine
which social media outlets are suitable for use, and which employees are
authorized to use any given social media outlet, and the permissible content
that may be communicated through social media. Employees shall not use social
media at work unless specifically authorized to do so by the Village Manager or
designee department head When an employee is so authorized, the employee shall
use the social media consistent with the terms of the authorization and this
chapter.
      2.   Unless specially authorized to use social media at work by the
preceding paragraph, use of social media at work is strictly prohibited.
Likewise, unless authorized as provided, use of Village property including
computers, wireless technology, cellular phones, smart phones or internet
networks for social media use is prohibited. Employees are advised that Village
computers, wireless technology, cellular phones, smart phones, internet
networks, and other Village property are monitored. Use of Village equipment
for an improper purpose will be detected and employment consequences will
result.
   C.   Personal Use of Social Media. The Village does not prohibit employees
from participating in social media while not at work, nor is the content posted
any concern of the Village. However, if an employee uses social media to harm
the Village, Village constituents, or fellow employees, participation in social
media while not at work can have employment consequences. Employees shall not
use social media to impair the work of any Village employee; to harass, bully,
demean or create a hostile work environment for any Village employee. Nor shall
an employee use social media to violate Village policies, ordinances, or state
or Federal law. To make the distinction between private activity and work
activity as clear as possible, in cases where confusion might be created, each
employee should identify a social media posting as a personal opinion rather
than the opinion of the Village.
   D.   Definition. "Bully or bullying" means any repeated and pervasive
written, verbal or electronic expression, physical act or gesture, or a pattern
thereof, that is intended to cause distress upon one or more Village employees
whether or not at work or during work hours. Bullying includes but is not
limited to hazing, harassment, intimidation or menacing acts of another Village
employee which may but need not based on the employee's race, color, sex,
ethnicity, national origin, religion, disability, age, or sexual orientation.
   E.   Identification of Inappropriate Use. If any Village employee becomes
aware of inappropriate use of social media in violation of this policy, he or
she is to immediately report the conduct to the Personnel Director. Violations
of this policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including
termination. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-10: SMOKE FREE WORKPLACE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that employees and
members of the public have a safe and healthy work environment.
   B.   General Prohibition. The Village prohibits smoking, using a lighted or
smoldering smoking device, lighting a smoking device, vaping, or utilizing
electronic cigarettes, in any Village facility. This includes facilities owned
or leased by the Village.
   C.   Application. This section applies to all employees and officials of the
Village, visitors and members of the public, any person conducting business
with the Village, and anyone driving or riding in a Village-owned vehicle.
   D.   Smoking Outdoors. Smoking and vaping is prohibited within twenty-five
feet (25') of an opening of any area where smoking is prohibited. When smoking
outside, employees, officials and the public shall not dispose of cigarette
butts on the grounds except in a receptacle designated for such disposal. (Ord.
2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-11: DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE:
   A.   Policy. The Village is a drug- and alcohol-free workplace. Accordingly,
no employee may use, possess, distribute, sell, or be under the influence of
alcohol or drugs while on the job. Violations of this policy may lead to
disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination of employment
and/or required participation in a substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment
program. Such violations may also have legal consequences.
   B.   Prescription Medication. The use of prescription medications is
permitted on the job so long as such use does not impair an employee's ability
to perform the essential functions of the job effectively and in a safe manner.
It is the employee's responsibility to report to his or her supervisor the use
of prescription medication that may impair job performance. If the employee
cannot perform his or her duties while taking a prescription medication, the
employee may be required to perform other duties or take sick leave until the
course of treatment is concluded. A statement from the employee's physician
concerning the prescription may be required.
   C.   Cannabis. The Village has a zero-tolerance policy for cannabis use.
Employees may be disciplined, up to and including termination, on the basis of
a positive drug test that indicates any amount of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol
or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol metabolite. The Village will not, however, take
adverse employment action against an employee holding a non-safety sensitive
position for medical cannabis use authorized by the Lynn and Erin Compassionate
Use Act, NMSA 1978 §§ 26-2B-1 et seq., provided that the employee is not under
the influence of cannabis during working hours, on Village property, while
operating Village vehicles or equipment, or while on call or standby duty. The
Village may require employees to provide a registry identification card to
document authorized cannabis use.
   D.   Drug and Alcohol Testing.
      1.   Random Testing. Each holder of a Commercial Drivers' License (CDL)
and each employee in a safety sensitive or security-related position is subject
to random drug and alcohol testing. A safety sensitive or security related
position is one in which an employee operates equipment that is potentially
dangerous to other employees or citizens of the Village, one in which an
employee has access to or dispenses drugs, one in which an employee has access
to or carries a firearm, or one in which an employee operates or maintains
heavy equipment or coordinates, relays, or controls radio communication for law
enforcement personnel.
      2.   Testing On Reasonable Suspicion. If there is reasonable suspicion to
believe that an employee may be impaired by drugs or alcohol on the job, or if
the employee is found with drugs and/or alcohol in the workplace, immediate
drug and/or alcohol testing may be ordered. Reasonable suspicion exists when
one's experience and training tends to indicate that a given person is under
the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance. Acceptable indicators
include, but are not limited to, odor of alcoholic beverage on the breath,
slurred or incoherent speech, staggering walk, loss of physical coordination,
bloodshot/watery eyes, dilated or pinpoint pupils, inability to successfully
complete a field sobriety test administered by a person trained in SFST,
erratic behavior, unexplained or uncharacteristic irritability, excessive
tardiness, poor work performance, and excessive unexplained absences from work.
   E.   Procedure for Testing on Reasonable Suspicion.
      STEP 1. In the event any Village employee has reasonable suspicion to
believe an employee may be impaired by drugs and/or alcohol while on the job,
the employee's supervisor must be notified. The supervisor shall notify the
Village Manager and/or the Personnel Director. The supervisor, Village Manager
and/or the Personnel Director shall then together directly observe the
employee's behavior and document any irregularities. Alternatively, law
enforcement personnel may be asked to conduct the observation. If a test is
ordered, each observer must document the specific indicators observed, within
forty-eight (48) hours.
      STEP 2. If reasonable suspicion exists, the employee shall be asked to
execute a written consent for immediate alcohol and/or drug testing. Failure to
consent to testing may be grounds for termination if the employee is a regular
employee or, if the employee is a trial status employee, immediate termination.
      STEP 3. If reasonable suspicion exists, and consent is given, the
employee shall be immediately transported for appropriate testing. Testing may
include use of the breathalyzer, blood and/or urine testing. The employee shall
be transported by the Village Manager and/or the Personnel Director to the
testing location. Analysis of any samples collected will be performed by a
laboratory selected by the Village.
      STEP 4. Following completion of testing, the employee shall be placed on
administrative leave with pay until the test results are available. The Village
shall transport the employee home.
      STEP 5. If the testing discloses that the employee was not impaired by
alcohol or drugs at the time of the test, the employee shall return to work. If
the test discloses that the employee was not impaired at the time of the test
but does disclose trace amounts of alcohol or drugs, the employee shall be
asked to return to work unless the presence of these substances is in violation
of an agreed-upon treatment and/or return to work agreement. If the test
discloses that the employee was impaired by alcohol or drugs at the time of the
test, the employee may be placed on unpaid leave until a decision on continued
employment is made by the appropriate Village administrator.
      STEP 6. If placed on administrative leave, an employee shall be given an
opportunity to provide an explanation of the positive test.
   F.   Consequences of a Positive Test.
      1.   Termination. If the results of a drug or alcohol test indicate that
the employee was impaired while at work, the employee may be subject to
termination.
      2.   Participation In A Treatment Program. An employee who is not
terminated after a positive test result may be required to participate in an
alcohol or drug treatment program through the Employee Assistance Program or
other program as a condition of continued employment. Any employee who
participates in such a program as a condition of continued employment shall be
entitled to be paid their regular hourly wage or salary when completing the
screening and assessment phase of the program. The employee shall be placed on
unpaid leave for the rehabilitation or treatment portion of the program.
However, an employee may be permitted to use accrued sick leave or vacation in
lieu of unpaid leave during rehabilitation or treatment. Upon successful
completion of an agreed-upon treatment program, the employee shall be permitted
to return to his or her position.
      3.   Loss Of Driving Privileges. If the results of a drug or alcohol test
indicate that the employee was impaired while at work, the employee shall not
be permitted to operate any Village vehicle (or operate any personal vehicle on
Village business), for a period of three (3) years, subject only to the
exception below.
      4.   Positions Requiring Driving. In the event driving a vehicle is a
requirement of an employee's position, the employee may be placed in an
alternate position for which he or she is qualified. In the event there is no
available position, the employee may be terminated.
   G.   Restoration of Driving Privileges. An employee may be authorized to
operate Village vehicles at the expiration of a one-year period from the date
of a positive test if the employee:
      1.   Has not been convicted of any traffic violation since the date of
the positive test;
      2.   Has a valid driver's license;
      3.   Has performed satisfactorily in his or her position;
      4.   Has completed a drug use assessment by an agency of the Village's
choice;
      5.   Has followed each recommendation made as a result of the drug use
assessment; and
      6.   Otherwise satisfies the Village of the employee's sobriety and
responsibility.
      The decision whether to permit the restoration of driving privileges is
discretionary on the part of the Village and may not be challenged under any
provision of this Personnel policy.
   H.   Take-Home Vehicles. In no event shall a Village employee who has had a
positive drug or alcohol test be permitted to take a Village vehicle to or from
the employee's home until three (3) years have elapsed from the date of the
positive test
   I.   Random Testing. If an employee has had a positive drug test and has not
been terminated, the employee will be subject to random testing for a
subsequent period of two (2) years from the date of the positive test.
   J.   Drug And Alcohol Related Convictions. Any employee who is convicted of
a drug or alcohol related criminal offense may be terminated. Employees
convicted of illegal distribution or sale of drugs will be immediately
terminated. If not terminated, the employee may be required to undergo periodic
random testing, may be required to complete a course of treatment, or may be
required to complete a program through the Employee Assistance Program. Under
the federal Drug-Free Workplace Act, any employee must notify the Village
Attorney of a criminal conviction for drug related activity occurring in the
workplace within five (5) days of the conviction. Any employee who is convicted
of an alcohol-related driving offense shall notify his or her supervisor of the
conviction within five (5) days of the date of conviction. Failure to report
such convictions may be grounds for discipline, up to and including
termination.
   K.   Drug Or Alcohol Dependency. Any employee who suffers from drug or
alcohol dependency should immediately seek the assistance of the Employee
Assistance Program or the appropriate resources within the community. The
employee may also wish to discuss the matter in confidence with his or her
supervisor or the Risk Manager. Each employee who suffers from drug or alcohol
dependency is urged to seek help before being the subject of disciplinary
action.
   L.   Motor Vehicle Operation and DUIs.
      1.   Persons Convicted of DUI May Not Drive. It is the policy of the
Village that any employee who is convicted of driving under the influence of an
intoxicant such as alcohol or drugs shall not be permitted to operate any
Village vehicle (or operate any personal vehicle on Village business), for a
period of three (3) years, subject only to the exception below.
      2.   Positions Requiring Driving. In the event driving a vehicle is a
requirement of an employee's position, the employee may be placed in an
alternate position for which he or she is qualified. In the event there is no
available position, the employee may be terminated.
      3.   Restoration Of Driving Privileges. An employee may be authorized to
operate Village vehicles at the expiration of a one-year period from the date
of conviction if the employee:
         a.   Has not been convicted of any traffic violation since the date of
conviction;
         b.   Has a valid driver's license;
         c.   Has performed satisfactorily in his or her position;
         d.   Has completed an alcohol use assessment by an agency of the
Village's choice;
         e.   Has followed each recommendation made as a result of the alcohol
use assessment; and
         f.   Otherwise satisfies the Village of the employee's sobriety and
responsibility.
      The decision whether to permit the restoration of driving privileges is
discretionary on the part of the Village and may not be challenged under any
provision of this Personnel policy.
      4.   Take-Home Vehicles. In no event shall a Village employee who has
been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs be permitted
to take a Village vehicle to or from the employee's home until three (3) years
have elapsed from the date of conviction.
      5.   Definition. For purposes of this policy, the word "conviction"
includes pleas of guilty or no contest. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-12: CONCEALED CARRY:
   A.   Authorized Concealed Carry. A Village Employee in good standing may
carry a concealed firearm in accordance with New Mexico law on their person
while at work, in a Village vehicle, or preforming their regular or assigned
duties as follows:
      1.   The employee has a New Mexico Concealed Carry License and has such
license on their person while carrying a concealed firearm.
      2.   The concealed firearm is secured on their person, in a holster, or
otherwise secured in a way to prevent it from accidental loss, discharge, or
interfering with their assigned duties or restricts their normal movements.
      3.   The employee carries only one concealed firearm on their person at
any time.
      4.   The employee follows all local, State, and Federal laws governing
Concealed Carry Licensees including:
         a.   Shall not carry a firearm in any University, School, or daycare.
         b.   Shall not carry in any Court, courthouse, or courthouse waiting
area without the consent of the presiding Judge.
         c.   Shall not carry a firearm on any Tribal Land unless authorized by
the Governing Body of the Tribe or Pueblo.
         d.   Shall not carry a firearm on any public transit or bus.
         e.   Shall not carry a firearm in any designated Airport Security zone
(s) that are posted prohibiting the carrying of firearms.
         f.   Shall not carry a firearm on any Federal property, Military base,
National Park or National Wildlife Management Area(s) that has posted a notice
prohibiting the carrying of firearms.
         g.   Shall not carry a firearm on private property or public access
property such as a Bank, where the owner or business has posted signs
prohibiting the carrying of firearms on their premises.
         h.   Shall not carry a firearm on any licensed liquor or alcohol
establishment or designated portion of any business that is licensed to sell
liquor or alcohol. A restaurant that sells food as its primary service and
offers for on-premises sale and consumption is not a prohibited establishment
unless it is posted prohibiting the carrying of firearms.
         i.   Shall not carry a concealed firearm when on any medication or
restriction from a Doctor that cautions against driving or operating machinery.
         j.   Shall not carry a concealed firearm while in possession of any
liquor or alcoholic beverage.
         k.   Must assure that the firearm is kept in a safe condition, such as
a locked case or cabinet at any time the employee removes it from their person.
   B.   Officers. Any Village employee that has sworn an Oath of Office as a
Peace Officer, Investigator, or is otherwise entrusted with the power of arrest
or filing of criminal charges may carry a concealed firearm while in the
performance of their duties so long as they also have their badge indicating
their Oath of Office on their person. (Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-13: HUMAN RESOURCE ACTIONS:
   A.   Voluntary Termination.
      1.   Letter Of Resignation. An employee may resign from the Village by
submitting a written letter of resignation to his or her immediate supervisor
at least five (5) working days prior to the effective date of resignation. The
letter of resignation should include the reason for leaving as well as the
proposed effective date.
      2.   Retirement. An employee may retire from Village employment through
the Village's retirement program so long as the employee meets the requirements
of the Public Employees Retirement Association. An employee desiring to retire
should contact the P.E.R.A. and give his or her supervisor as much notice as
possible.
      3.   Disability Retirement. An employee may resign from Village
employment in the event an injury or illness renders the employee medically
incapable of performing his or her duties. If qualified, the employee may be
entitled to claim disability benefits through the Public Employee's Retirement
Association and/or the Village's medical benefit package. Any employee who
feels he or she must resign as a result of a disability should contact his or
her supervisor and/or the Personnel Director for additional information.
   B.   Involuntary Termination.
      1.   Layoff. A layoff, or reduction in force, is an involuntary
termination of an employee or employees as a result of a shortage of work or
shortage of funds. A layoff may only be ordered by the Village Council. If a
layoff is necessary, employees shall be laid off in reverse order by seniority
within the department. If a position is available for which work and funds are
available, an employee may accept a demotion or transfer to avoid a layoff, but
only if the employee is otherwise qualified for the new position and a position
exists. If a position is later reestablished, the person who was the incumbent
when the position was abolished shall be given first consideration for
reappointment.
      2.   Abolishment Of Position. The Village Manager may abolish a position
which is no longer needed within the Village work force. A position may only be
abolished with the approval of the Village Council. If a position is available
for which work and funds are available, an employee may accept a demotion or
transfer to avoid a layoff, but only if the employee is otherwise qualified for
the new position and a position exists. If a position is reestablished, the
person who was the incumbent when the position was abolished shall be given
first consideration for reappointment.
   C.   Post-Employment Matters.
      1.   Exit Interview. When an employee leaves Village employment, the
employee will be scheduled for an exit interview prior to the last day of work.
The exit interview will be arranged by Human Resources. At the exit interview,
the employee may comment on his or her employment and may voice suggestions,
complaints, and criticisms. The employee will have an opportunity to discuss
benefits and benefit conversion privileges. The employee will be asked to
return all Village property in his or her possession.
      2.   Continuance Of Medical Coverage (COBRA). Under the federal
Comprehensive Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), eligible employees and/or
dependents may elect to continue employee and/or dependent medical insurance
coverage subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in that Act.
Consult the Human Resources Department for details on eligibility and benefits.
      3.   Compensation For Accrued PTO Upon Termination. Upon death,
retirement or termination of employment, each full-time regular, part-time
regular, and unclassified employee will be compensated for accrued vacation
time and accrued sick leave time earned through the last day of work, subject
to the limitations on the amount of compensation set forth below.
(Ord. 2024-09, 12-24-2024)
2-4-14: DONATION OF PAID TIME OFF/LEAVE POLICY:
   A.   Purpose. To establish procedures for employees to voluntarily donate a
portion of their accrued paid leave to assist a fellow employee who has a
serious medical condition or a qualifying life event (such as care of a child
or parent).
   B.   Eligibility.
      1.   Recipient. To receive donated leave, an employee must be suffering
from a serious non-industrial related illness or injury, or have an immediate
family member suffering from a serious illness or injury that requires the
recipient to be absent for a period exceeding one (1) uninterrupted work week.
An employee may also be approved to receive donated leave to stay home for a
newborn child or for unforeseen circumstances. To receive any donated leave, a
recipient must have exhausted all available paid leave, including compensatory
time off.
      2.   Donor. To donate leave, an employee must have a minimum of 80 hours
of PTO and must have a minimum of 60 hours of PTO after the proposed transfer.
An employee may not donate more than 160 hours of PTO in any year.
   C.   Procedure: Donation of PTO is subject to the following conditions and
limitations:
      1.   The Human Resources Director may assist employees in need in seeking
a donation. Employees should not solicit donations on their own.
      2.   Any regular employee may request to participate in Leave Donation by
contacting the Human Resources Department to obtain the Verification Leave
Donation Form. This form must be completed by the person donating the leave,
signed, and approved by both the Supervisor and the Human Resource Director.
      3.   Decisions regarding eligibility will be made on a case-by-case
basis. The Village Manager will have final decision-making authority in all
cases.
      4.   PTO may generally not be donated by a subordinate to an immediate
supervisor, but may be authorized in special circumstances with express
approval of the Village Manager and Human Resources Director.
      5.   Leave donations will be suitable for one pay period and will be
accepted on a pay-period basis, applied at the time of need.
      6.   Upon approval, the recipient's appropriate leave account will be
credited with the donated time. Donated leave may only be used for an approved
purpose and may not be used for vacations.
      7.   Any unused PTO that was donated will be transferred back to the
donor.
(Ord. 2025-10, 8-12-2025)
2-4-15: RECORDING OF MEETINGS AND CONVERSATIONS POLICY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to protect the privacy,
confidentiality, and integrity of communications within the workplace.
   B.   Policy Statement. Employees may not record-by audio, video, or any
other means-any conversation, meeting, phone call, or other form of
communication that involves one or more individuals associated with the Village
without the express prior consent of all participants. This includes but is not
limited to:
      1.   In-person meetings.
      2.   Virtual meetings (e.g., Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet).
      3.   Telephone conversations.
      4.   Informal or impromptu discussions in the workplace.
      5.   Conversations involving customers, vendors, or other external
parties.
   C.   Consent. Consent to record must be express and should be documented in
writing or clearly acknowledged by all parties during the recording. The
individual recording the conversation shall provide copies of the recording to
the participating parties upon request.
   D.   Exceptions. This Policy is not intended to apply to open meetings and
public events held by the Village, which may be recorded in the Village's
discretion. Recording may also be permitted under the following circumstances:
      1.   As expressly authorized by the Village Manager.
      2.   As expressly authorized by the Human Resources Director when
pertaining to personnel matters (e.g. investigative interviews or disciplinary
proceedings).
      3.   When required by law.
   E.   Violations. Unauthorized recording may may result in disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
   F.   Reporting Concerns. Potential violations of this Policy should be
reported to the Human Resources Director.
(Ord. 2025-11, 8-12-2025)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND TAXATION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title
3-1-2: Definition
3-1-3: Application To Do Business
3-1-4: Business Registration Fee
3-1-5: Renewal Of Registration
3-1-6: Records Kept
3-1-7: Enforcement
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the BUSINESS REGISTRATION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1986-
08, 11-6-1986)
3-1-2: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, "business" means an activity or enterprise
for financial gain, benefit, advantage or livelihood. (Ord. 1986-08, 11-6-1986)
3-1-3: APPLICATION TO DO BUSINESS:
   A.   Any person proposing to engage in business within the village limits
shall apply for and pay a business registration fee for each outlet, branch or
location within the village limits prior to engaging in business.
   B.   Any person filing an application for issuance or renewal of any
business registration shall include in the application his/her current revenue
division taxpayer identification number or evidence of application for a
current revenue division taxpayer identification number. (Ord. 2000-01, 2-4-
2000)
3-1-4: BUSINESS REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: There is imposed on each place of business conducted
in the village a business registration fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00). The
fee is imposed pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-38-3 as it
now exists or is amended and shall be known as the "business registration fee".
   B.   Proration: The business registration fee will be prorated to a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for new businesses applying during the last
quarter of the year.
   C.   Exemption From Fee: No business registration fee shall be imposed on
any business which is licensed pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 3-38-1. (Ord. 2000-01, 2-4-2000)
3-1-5: RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Time For Renewal: Between January 1 and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
March 16 of each year, any person with a place of business in the village and
subject to this chapter shall apply for renewal of business registration with
the village clerk.
   B.   Failure To Renew; Late Fee: Any person who fails to renew the business
registration and pay the fee by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on March 16 of any
year shall be charged an additional late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) and shall
not be registered until the original fee and late fee are paid. (Ord. 2000-01,
2-4-2000)
3-1-6: RECORDS KEPT:
The village clerk shall keep a record of all businesses registered, including
the names of the owners of the businesses, the date issued, the amount paid and
other relevant information. (Ord. 1986-08, 11-6-1986)
3-1-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The village may enforce payment of the business registration fee by filing a
charge of violation of this chapter in municipal court, as well as by any of
the other means provided in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-38-5. (Ord.
2000-01, 2-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GROSS RECEIPTS TAXES
ARTICLE A.  MUNICIPAL GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Tax Imposed
3-2A-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
3-2A-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-2A-4: Disposition Of Revenues
3-2A-5: Effective Date Of Tax
3-2A-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the village for the
privilege of engaging in business in the village, an excise tax equal to one
and one-fourth percent (1 1/4%) of the gross receipts reported or required to
be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1 as it now exists, or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the New Mexico municipal gross
receipts tax act as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be known as
the municipal gross receipts tax. (Ord. 1986-03, 7-18-1986)
1. NMSA §7-9-1 et seq.
3-2A-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it my be amended. (Ord. 1986-03, 7-18-1986)
3-2A-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No municipal gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross receipts arising
from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the village to
another point outside the village; or
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of the village on land owned
by the village for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made pursuant to
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-1-6.4. (Ord. 1986-03, 7-18-1986; amd.
2003 Code)
3-2A-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Revenue from the municipal gross receipts tax will be placed in the municipal
general fund. (Ord. 1986-03, 7-18-1986)
3-2A-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The effective date of the municipal gross receipts tax shall be January 1,
1987. (Ord. 1986-03, 7-18-1986)
ARTICLE B.  MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Tax Imposed
3-2B-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
3-2B-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-2B-4: Disposition Of Revenues
3-2B-5: Effective Date Of Tax
3-2B-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the village for the
privilege of engaging in business in the village an excise tax equal to one-
sixteenth of one percent (1/16%) of the gross receipts reported or required to
be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1 as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross
receipts taxes act 2 as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the "municipal environmental services gross receipts tax". (Ord. 1996-
03, 4-4-1996)
1. NMSA §7-9-1 et seq.
2. NMSA §7-19D-1 et seq.
3-2B-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 1996-03, 4-4-1996)
3-2B-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No municipal environmental services gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the
gross receipts arising from:
   A.   A business located outside the boundaries of the village on land owned
by the village for which a gross receipts tax distribution is made pursuant to
New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-1-6.4. (Ord. 1996-03, 4-4-1996; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the village to
another point outside the village. (2003 Code)
3-2B-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Revenue from the municipal environmental services gross receipts tax will be
used for the acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of solid
waste facilities, water facilities, wastewater facilities, sewer systems and
related facilities. (Ord. 1996-03, 4-4-1996)
3-2B-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The effective date of the municipal environmental services gross receipts tax
shall be July 1, 1996. (Ord. 1996-03, 4-4-1996)
ARTICLE C. MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Tax Imposed
3-2C-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
3-2C-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-2C-4: Disposition Of Revenues
3-2C-5: Effective Date Of Tax
3-2C-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the village for the
privilege of engaging in business in the village an excise tax equal to three-
eighths of one percent (3/8%) of the gross receipts reported or required to be
reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1 as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross
receipts taxes act 2 as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the "municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax". (Ord. 1998-10, 8-
20-1998; amd. Ord. 2001-11, 10-18-2001)
1. NMSA §7-9-1 et seq.
2. NMSA §7-19D-1 et seq.
3-2C-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 1998-10, 8-20-1998; amd. Ord. 2001-11,
10-18-2001)
3-2C-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts arising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the village to
another point outside the village;
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of the village on land owned
by the village for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-1-6.4A3; or
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 1998-10, 8-20-1998; amd.
Ord. 2001-11, 10-18-2001; 2003 Code)
3-2C-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Revenue from the municipal infrastructure gross receipts tax will be used for
the following purposes:
   A.   One-fourth of one percent (1/4%) for repairs and maintenance on village
streets.
   B.   One-eighth of one percent (1/8%) for public safety building. (Ord.
1998-10, 8-20-1998; amd. Ord. 2001-11, 10-18-2001)
3-2C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The effective date of the municipal infrastructure gross receipts taxes shall
be July 1, 1999, for the one-fourth of one percent (1/4%) tax and January 1,
2002, for the one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) tax. (Ord. 1998-10, 8-20-1998;
amd. Ord. 2001-11, 10-18-2001; 2003 Code)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL CAPITAL OUTLAY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Tax Imposed
3-2D-2: General Provisions; Act Adopted
3-2D-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-2D-4: Disposition Of Revenues
3-2D-5: Effective Date Of Tax
3-2D-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is imposed on any person engaging in business in the village for the
privilege of engaging in the business in the village an excise tax equal to
one-fourth of one percent (1/4%) of the gross receipts reported or required to
be reported by the person pursuant to the New Mexico gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1 as it now exists or as it may be amended. The tax
imposed under this article is pursuant to the municipal local option gross
receipts taxes act 2 as it now exists or as it may be amended and shall be
known as the MUNICIPAL CAPITAL OUTLAY GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-
2001)
1. NMSA §7-9-1 et seq.
2. NMSA §7-19D-1 et seq.
3-2D-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ACT ADOPTED:
This article hereby adopts by reference all definitions, exemptions and
deductions contained in the gross receipts and compensating tax act as it now
exists or as it may be amended. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-2001)
3-2D-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax shall be imposed on the gross
receipts rising from:
   A.   Transporting persons or property for hire by railroad, motor vehicle,
air transportation or any other means from one point within the village to
another point outside the village. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-2001)
   B.   A business located outside the boundaries of the village on land owned
by the village for which a state gross receipts tax distribution is made
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-1-6.4A3; or (Ord. 2001-12,
10-18-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite services. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-2001)
3-2D-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Revenue from the municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax will be used for
improvements and maintenance of village roads. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-2001; amd.
2003 Code)
3-2D-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The effective date of the municipal capital outlay gross receipts tax shall be
January 1, 2002. (Ord. 2001-12, 10-18-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LODGERS' TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Purpose
3-3-3: Definitions
3-3-4: Occupancy Tax Imposed
3-3-5: Licensing Requirements
3-3-6: Exemptions From Tax
3-3-7: Collection Of Tax; Reporting Procedures
3-3-8: Records Kept
3-3-9: Administration Of Monies Collected
3-3-10: Eligible Uses Of Proceeds
3-3-11: Financial Reporting
3-3-12: Vendor Audits
3-3-13: Confidentiality Of Return And Audit
3-3-14: Refunds And Credits
3-3-15: Failure To Make Return
3-3-16: Enforcement And Penalties
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and cited as the LODGERS' TAX ORDINANCE. (Ord.
1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax which will be borne by persons
using commercial lodging accommodations including short term nightly rental (as
set out in the Short Term Nightly Rental Ordinance), which tax will provide
revenues for the purpose of advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
related attractions, facilities and events, and acquiring, establishing and
operating tourist related facilities, attractions or transportation systems, as
authorized in section
3-3-10 of this chapter and Title 12. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-
06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD: The advisory board established herein to make recommendations to the
governing body, keep minutes of its proceedings and submit its recommendations,
correspondence and other pertinent documents to the governing body.
GROSS TAXABLE RENT: The total amount of rent paid for lodging, not including
the state gross receipts tax or local sales taxes.
LODGING: The transaction of furnishing rooms or other accommodations by a
vendor to a vendee who, for rent, uses, possesses or has the right to use or
possess any room or rooms or other units of accommodations in or at a taxable
premises. Lodging shall include the provision of short term rentals as set out
in the Short Term Nightly Rental Ordinance.
LODGINGS: The rooms or other accommodations furnished by a vendor to a vendee
by a taxable service of lodging and including Short Term Rental Units.
OCCUPANCY TAX: The tax on lodging authorized by the lodgers' tax act1.
PERSON: A corporation, firm, other body corporate, partnership, association or
individual. "Person" includes an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed according to law and acting in a representative
capacity, but does not include the United States of America, the State of New
Mexico, any corporation, department, instrumentality or agency of the federal
government or the state government, or any political subdivision of the state.
RENT: The consideration received by a vendor in money, credits, property or
other consideration valued in money for lodgings subject to an occupancy tax
authorized in the Lodgers' Tax Act.
SHORT TERM NIGHTLY RENTAL ORDINANCE: Title 12 of the Village Code.
TAXABLE PREMISES: A hotel, apartment, apartment hotel, apartment house, lodge,
lodging house, rooming house, motor hotel, guesthouse, guest ranch, ranch
resort, guest resort, mobile home, motor court, auto court, auto camp, trailer
court, trailer camp, trailer park, tourist camp, cabin or other premises for
lodging.
TOURIST: A person who travels for the purpose of business, pleasure or culture
to a municipality or county imposing an occupancy tax.
TOURIST RELATED EVENTS: Events that are planned for, promoted to and attended
by tourists.
TOURIST RELATED FACILITIES AND ATTRACTIONS: Facilities and attractions that are
intended to be used by or visited by tourists.
TOURIST RELATED TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS: Transportation systems that provide
transportation for tourists to and from tourist related facilities, attractions
and events.
VENDEE: A natural person to whom lodgings are furnished in the exercise of the
taxable service of lodging.
ENDOR: A person furnishing lodgings in the exercise of the taxable service of
lodging.
VILLAGE FINANCE DIRECTOR: The village finance director of Angel Fire, New
Mexico. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-4: OCCUPANCY TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed an occupancy tax of five percent (5%) of the gross
taxable rent for lodging within the village paid to vendors. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-
10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-5: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No vendor shall engage in the business of providing
lodging in the village who has first not obtained a license or short- term
rental permit as provided in this section and Title 12.
   B.   Application for License: Applicants for a vendor's license shall submit
an application to the village finance director stating:
      1.   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the owner
of the subject lodgings;
      2.   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the
authorized agent or representative of the lodgings, if applicable;
      3.   The physical address of the proposed lodgings;
      4.   The square footage, number of bedrooms and bathrooms of the proposed
lodgings; and
      5.   Other information reasonably necessary to affect a determination of
eligibility for such license.
   C.   Fee Established: In addition to the Occupancy Tax, fees shall be
imposed on short term rental vendors, such fees to include a short-term rental
application and permit fee. Fees shall be set by resolution of the governing
body.
   D.   Grant of License: The village finance director shall review
applications for license within ten (10) days of receipt thereof and grant the
license in due course if the applicant is doing business subject to the
lodgers' tax.
   E.   Appeal:
      1.   Filing Appeal: An applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of
the village finance director may appeal the decision to the governing body by
written notice to the Village Clerk of such appeal to be made within fifteen
(15) days of the date of the decision of the village finance director on the
application.
      2.   Hearing: The matter shall be referred to the governing body for
hearing at a regular or special meeting in the usual course of business.
      3.   Action by Governing Body: The decision of the governing body made
thereof shall be expressed in writing and be communicated in the same manner as
the decision of the village finance director is transmitted. The action of the
governing body shall be deemed final.
      4.   Issuance Of License; Notice Of Other Decisions: If the governing
body finds for the applicant, the village finance director shall issue the
appropriate license or other notice conforming to the decision made by the
governing body.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
The occupancy tax shall not apply:
   A.   If a vendee:
      1.   Has been a permanent resident of the taxable premises for a period
of at least thirty (30) consecutive days; or
      2.   Enters into or has entered into a written agreement for lodgings at
the taxable premises for a period of at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
   B.   If the rent paid by the vendee is less than two dollars ($2.00) a day;
   C.   To lodging accommodations at institutions of the federal government,
the state or any political subdivision thereof;
   D.   To lodging accommodations at religious, charitable, educational or
philanthropic institutions, including, without limitation, such accommodations
at summer camps operated by such institutions;
   E.   To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities; or
   F.   To privately owned and operated convalescent homes, or homes for the
aged, infirm, indigent or chronically ill.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-7: COLLECTION OF TAX; REPORTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Collection Required: Every vendor providing lodgings shall collect the
tax thereon on behalf of the village and shall act as a trustee therefor.
   B.   Separate Charge from Rent: The tax shall be collected from vendees and
shall be charged separately from the rent fixed by the vendor for the lodgings.
   C.   Liability of Vendor: Each vendor licensed under this chapter shall be
liable to the village for the tax provided herein on the rent paid for lodging
at his respective place of business.
   D.   Return Filed: Each vendor shall make a report by the twenty-fifth (25)
day of each month, on forms provided by the village finance director, of the
receipts for lodging in the preceding calendar month, and shall submit the
proceeds of the lodgers' tax to the village and include sufficient information
to enable the village to audit the reports and shall be verified on oath by the
vendor.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-8: RECORDS KEPT:
The vendor shall maintain adequate records of facilities subject to the tax and
of proceeds received for the use thereof. Such records shall be maintained in
the village, and shall be open to inspection by the village during reasonable
hours and shall be retained for three (3) years. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996;
amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-9: ADMINISTRATION OF MONIES COLLECTED:
   A.   Administrative Authority: The governing body shall administer the
lodgers' tax monies collected.
   B.   Advisory Board: The mayor shall appoint a five (5) member advisory
board that consists of two (2) members who are owners or operators of lodgings
subject to the occupancy tax within the village, two (2) members who are owners
or operators of industries located within the village that primarily provide
services or products to tourists, and one member who is a resident of the
village and represents the general public. The board shall advise the governing
body on expenditure of funds authorized under section
3-3-10 of this chapter for advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist
attractions and facilities in the village and surrounding area.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-10: ELIGIBLE USES OF PROCEEDS:
Subject to the limitations contained in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
3-38-15, the village may use the proceeds from the tax to defray the costs of:
   A.   Collecting and otherwise administering the tax, including the
performance of audits required by the lodgers' tax act pursuant to guidelines
issued by the state department of finance and administration;
   B.   Establishing, operating, purchasing, constructing, otherwise acquiring,
reconstructing, extending, improving, equipping, furnishing or acquiring real
property or any interest in real property for the site or grounds for tourist
related facilities, attractions or transportation systems of the village, the
county in which the village is located or the county;
   C.   The principal of and interest on any prior redemption premiums due in
connection with and any other charges pertaining to revenue bonds authorized by
New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 3-38-23 or 3-38-24;
   D.   Advertising, publicizing and promoting tourist related attractions,
facilities and events of the village or county and tourist facilities or
attractions within the area;
   E.   Providing police and fire protection and sanitation service for tourist
related events, facilities and attractions located in the village; or
   F.   Any combination of the foregoing purposes or transactions stated in
this section, but for no other municipal purpose.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-11: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
   A.   The governing body shall furnish the advisory board that portion of any
proposed budget, report or audit filed or received by the governing body
pursuant to either New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 6, article 6 or the
audit act 1  that relates to expenditure of occupancy tax funds within ten (10)
days of the filing or receipt of such proposed budget, report or audit by the
governing body.
   B.   The governing body shall report to the local government division of the
state department of finance and administration on a quarterly basis any
expenditure of occupancy tax funds pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated
sections 3-38-15 and 3-38-21 and shall furnish a copy of this report to the
advisory board when it is filed with the division.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
 
Notes
1 NMSA § 12-6-1 et seq.
3-3-12: VENDOR AUDITS:
   A.   The governing body shall conduct random audits to verify full payment
of occupancy tax receipts.
   B.   The governing body shall determine each year the number of vendors
within the village to audit.
   C.   The audits may be performed by the village finance director or by any
other designee of the governing body. A copy of the audits shall be filed
annually with the local government division of the state department of finance
and administration.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-13: CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN AND AUDIT:
It is unlawful for any employee of the village to reveal to any individual
other than another employee of the village any information contained in the
return or audit of any taxpayer, including vendors subject to the lodgers' tax
act, except to a court of competent jurisdiction in response to an order
thereof in an action relating to taxes to which the village is a party, and in
which information sought is material to the inquiry; to the taxpayer himself or
to his authorized representative; and in such manner, for statistical purposes,
the information revealed is not identified as applicable to any individual
taxpayer. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-14: REFUNDS AND CREDITS:
If any person believes he has made payment of any lodgers' tax in excess of
that for which he was liable, he may claim a refund thereof by directing to the
village finance director, no later than ninety (90) days from the date payment
was made, a written claim for refund. Every claim for refund shall state the
nature of the person's complaint and the affirmative relief requested. The
village finance director shall allow the claim in whole or in part or may deny
it. Refunds of tax and interest erroneously paid and amounting to one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or more may be made only with the approval of the governing
body. (Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-15: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN:
   A.   Liability for Tax; Civil Penalty: Every vendor is liable for the
payment of the proceeds of any occupancy tax that the vendor failed to remit to
the village, whether due to his failure to collect the tax or otherwise. He
shall be liable for the tax plus a civil penalty equal to the greater of ten
percent (10%) of the amount not remitted or one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
village finance director shall give the delinquent vendor written notice of the
delinquency, which notice shall be mailed to the vendor's local address.
   B.   Collection of Delinquent Taxes: If payments are not received within
fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the notice, the village may bring an action
in law or equity in the district court for the collection of any amounts due,
including, without limitation, penalties thereon, and interest on the unpaid
principal at a rate not exceeding one percent (1%) a month. If the village
attempts collection through an attorney or the village attorney for any purpose
with regard to this chapter, the vendor shall be liable to the village for all
costs, fees paid to the attorney or village attorney, and all other expenses
incurred in connection therewith.
   C.   Tax A Lien: The occupancy tax imposed by the village constitutes a lien
in favor of the village upon the personal and real property of the vendor
providing lodgings. The lien may be enforced as provided in New Mexico Statutes
Annotated sections 3-36-1 through 3-36-7. Priority of the lien shall be
determined from the date of filing.
   D.   Property Sales; Taxes to Be Current: Under process or order of court,
no person shall sell the property of the vendor without first ascertaining from
the village finance director the amount of any occupancy tax due the village.
Any occupancy tax due the village shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale
before payment is made to the judgment creditor or any other person with a
claim on the proceeds of the sale.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
3-3-16: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement:
      1.   An action to enforce the Lodgers' Tax Act may be brought by:
         a.   The attorney general or the district attorney in the county of
jurisdiction; or
         b.   A vendor who is collecting the proceeds of an Occupancy Tax in
the county of jurisdiction.
      2.   A district court may issue a writ of mandamus or order an injunction
or other appropriate remedy to enforce the provisions of the Lodgers' Tax Act.
      3.   The court shall award costs and reasonable attorney fees to the
prevailing party in a court action to enforce the provisions of the Lodgers'
Tax Act.
   B.   Criminal Penalties: Any person who violates the provisions of this
chapter for a failure to pay the tax, to remit proceeds thereof to the village,
to properly account for any lodging and tax proceeds pertaining thereto, or for
violating the confidentiality provisions of section
3-3-13 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 1996-12, 10-10-1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2024-06, 12-24-2024)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Tax And Fees Imposed
3-4-3: Licensing Procedures
3-4-4: Failure To Pay Tax
3-4-5: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CLUB: Any nonprofit group, including an auxiliary or subsidiary group,
organized and operated under the laws of the state, with a membership of not
less than fifty (50) members who pay membership dues at the rate of not less
than five dollars ($5.00) per year and who, under the constitution and bylaws
of the club, have all voting rights and full membership privileges and which
group is the owner, lessee or occupant of premises used exclusively for club
purposes and which group the director finds is operated solely for recreation,
social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purposes.
DEPARTMENT: The state department of alcoholic beverage control.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department.
DISPENSER: Any person licensed under the provisions of the liquor control act 1
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and elected village council members.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, firm, partnership, copartnership,
association or other legal entity.
RESTAURANT: Any establishment having a New Mexico resident as a proprietor or
manager which is held out to the public as a place where meals are prepared and
served primarily for on premises consumption to the general public in
consideration of payment and which has a dining room, a kitchen, and the
employees necessary for preparing, cooking, and serving meals; provided, that
"restaurant" does not include establishments as defined in regulations
promulgated by the director serving only hamburgers, sandwiches, salads, and
other fast foods.
RETAILER: Any person licensed under the provisions of the liquor control act
selling, offering for sale, or having in his possession with the intent to
sell, any alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages for consumption and not for
resale off the licensed premises. (Ord. 1986-07, 10-2-1986; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 60-3A-1 et seq.1, selling, offering for sale or having in his
1 possession with the intent to sell alcoholic beverages both by the drink for
  consumption on the licensed premises and in unbroken packages for consumption
  and not for resale off the licensed premises.
3-4-2: TAX AND FEES IMPOSED:
   A.   Liquor License Tax: Pursuant to the provisions of New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 7-24-1, on or after the effective date hereof, no person who
has been issued a state license from the department shall be given possession
of the license by the village until the person has paid the municipal license
tax, in full, by July 1. The tax rates shall be as follows:
 
Type Of License Tax Amount
Retailer        $200.00
Dispenser       200.00
Canopy          200.00
Club            200.00
Restaurant      200.00
 
   B.   Special Dispenser's Permit: Persons granted a special dispenser's
permit, under the provisions of New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-6A-12,
shall pay to the village a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for each
day the permittee dispenses alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 1986-07, 10-2-1986)
3-4-3: LICENSING PROCEDURES:
The village shall be bound to follow the procedures set forth in New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 60-6B-4 regarding applications for liquor licenses
to the governing body of the village. (Ord. 1986-07, 10-2-1986)
3-4-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Failure of any person holding a retailer's, dispenser's, canopy, club or
restaurant license to pay such license tax on the date(s) and in the manner
imposed by this chapter shall be subject to appropriate action by the governing
body of the village, as provided by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-24-
3 relating to the closing of establishments. (Ord. 1986-07, 10-2-1986)
3-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1986-07, 10-2-1986; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ITINERANT VENDORS; SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Itinerant Vendors
3-5-2: Special Events From Two Hundred To Seven Hundred Persons
3-5-3: Special Events Over Seven Hundred Persons
3-5-4: Penalties
3-5-1: ITINERANT VENDORS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CONVEYANCE: Includes any public or privately owned vehicle, method or means
of transporting people, bicycle, motorized or nonmotorized vehicle, handcart,
pushcart, lunch wagon or any other device or thing, whether or not mounted on
wheels and approved by the planning director.
   GOODS, WARES AND MERCHANDISE: Shall include, but not be limited to: fruits,
vegetables, farm products or provisions, dairy products, fish, game, poultry,
meat, plants, flowers, appliances, wearing apparel, jewelry, ornaments,
artwork, cosmetics and beauty aids, health products, household needs and
furnishings, firewood, food of any kind, whether or not for immediate
consumption, confections or drinks.
   ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association
who does not live within the community of Angel Fire that does not regularly
conduct business within the village, who sells merchandise of any character,
whether the delivery is made by them or not, or who shall on a transient or
temporary basis bring into the village and engage in the sale of services,
stocks of goods, wares or merchandise, including, but not limited to, fruits or
vegetables, firewood, farm or garden produce of their own raising, or someone
else's, or vehicles for hire, and offer the same to the public.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS: A 501(c)(3) or (c)(6) tax exempt organization as
defined by the internal revenue service. Nationally recognized youth oriented
organizations, such as, but not limited to: Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, 4-H clubs,
public safety organizations, nationally recognized religious organizations,
youth organizations, and the chamber of commerce are considered as nonprofit
organizations.
   PREPARED FOOD VENDOR: Any person who holds a valid food handler's
certificate and who goes from place to place selling prepared or precooked food
for human consumption from a vehicle, pushcart or portable container.
   VENDING STAND: Any showcase, table, bench, rack, handcart, pushcart, stall,
canopy or any other fixture or device that is used for the purpose of
displaying, exhibiting, carrying, transporting, storing, selling or offering
for sale any food, beverages, goods, wares or merchandise upon private property
not to exceed ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') in area and approved by the
planning director. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005; amd. Ord. 2011-05, 6-14-2011)
   B.   License Fees And Exemptions:
      1.   Fee: For a village itinerant vendor's license, a twenty five dollar
($25.00) per day fee is required.
      2.   Exemptions:
         a.   Wholesale persons taking orders for merchandise to be delivered
to retail dealers for resale.
         b.   Nonprofit organizations.
         c.   Events sponsored by the Angel Fire Community Center.
         d.   Newspaper vending.
         e.   Garage sales.
         f.   A local merchant holding a current village business license may
offer itinerant vending of items for sale either at his or her place of
business or elsewhere when money for all the merchandise sold by the itinerant
vendor is received through the merchant's regular business receipts, recording
each sale.
   C.   Information Required: Before the planning division shall issue an
itinerant vendor's license, the itinerant vendor shall supply the following
information:
      1.   Name of business.
      2.   Mailing address of vendor or business physical address if different
from mailing address.
      3.   Name of owners of the business indicating whether the business is a
sole proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation.
      4.   The nature of the business. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005)
      5.   a. The number of days during which a temporary business shall be
conducted in the village, the dates for which application is made, and period
of time, not to exceed four (4) days per calendar month, for which an itinerant
vendor's license is sought.
         b.   The number of days during which a seasonal business shall be
conducted in the village, the dates for which application is made, and period
of time, not to exceed four (4) months per calendar year, for which a business
registration is required in addition to an application fee of fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 2011-05, 6-14-2011)
      6.   State of New Mexico tax identification number or evidence of an
application for a current revenue division taxpayer identification number and
the state of New Mexico professional license number, i.e., contractor license,
if applicable. For food vending, proof of license by the state authorities.
      7.   A drawing of sign advertising the itinerant business attached to
application. (Only 1 sign no larger than 3 feet by 8 feet in size is approved
with the license. The sign must be in accordance with the village sign
ordinance 1
      8.   A letter from the property owner, at the location intended for use
by the vendor, indicating the owner's permission and proof of ownership of the
property by the owner.
      9.   A drawing showing the approximate location where the vending will
take place in relation to the property involved. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005)
   D.   For Profit Business: A for profit business which is for the purpose of
permitting itinerant vendors to sell goods, wares and merchandise in vending
stands such as a flea market, shall follow all the business licensing and
zoning requirements, and each itinerant vendor must obtain an itinerant
vendor's license. (Ord. 2011-05, 6-14-2011)
   E.   Nonprofit Organizations:
      1.   Nonprofit organizations attempting to raise funds for the direct
benefit of the organization program, such as, but not limited to: any youth
oriented organizations, i.e., Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, 4-H clubs; public safety
organizations, religious organizations, and the chamber of commerce, whose
purpose is for the benefit of the Angel Fire community, must obtain a business
license from the village, at no cost, prior to conducting business within the
municipal boundaries.
      2.   For nonprofit organizations sponsoring events such as, but not
limited to, arts and crafts shows, flea markets, farmer markets and wine and
cheese tasting events, the itinerant vendors taking part are not required to be
licensed under this chapter.
      3.   The vendors shall obey all village, county and state laws as they
may apply to zoning, signs or banners, unreasonable noise and other such
requirements. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005)
   F.   Permitted Locations: Temporary businesses and seasonal businesses shall
only be allowed in the C-1, C-2, O-1, O-2, O-4, and O-5 zoning districts.
   G.   Prohibited Locations:
      1.   Other than garage sales and home occupational businesses as defined
in this code, no temporary businesses, seasonal businesses, and door to door
sales shall be permitted in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, and R-6 zoning
districts.
      2.   No vendor shall be permitted to operate in the following areas:
         a.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any street intersection or
pedestrian crosswalk.
         b.   Within ten feet (10') of any driveway, loading zone or bus stop.
         c.   In any area within twenty feet (20') of a building entrance or
exit or in the case of a hotel, within ten feet (10') of building entrances or
exits.
         d.   Within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant, fire escape or any
parking space or access ramp designated for persons with disabilities.
   H.   Issuance Of License:
      1.   Notice Of Issuance Or Denial: The applicant shall be notified, in
writing, by the planning director of the village's decision to issue or deny
the vending license within ten (10) working days after the applicant has filed
a completed application with the planning division.
      2.   Contents Of License: Each license shall show the name and address of
the licensee, the type of license issued, New Mexico tax ID number, the kind of
goods, wares and merchandise to be sold, the amount of the license fee, the
date of issuance, the license number, an identifying description of the method
of conveyance and the vending stand, and the license expiration date.
      3.   Term Of License; Assignability, Transferability: All licenses issued
under this section are valid for a time specific as determined by the planning
director unless suspended or revoked by the planning director for noncompliance
to any village, county, or state law. All licenses issued under this section
are both nonassignable and nontransferable.
      4.   Display Of License: All licenses issued under this section shall be
publicly displayed at the vending stand or on the method of conveyance. Any
other licenses required by the state shall also be displayed in the same
manner.
      5.   Hours Of Operations: Vendors shall be allowed to engage in the
business of vending only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. MST. An extension to the hours of operation may be
approved by the planning director for special events only. No vending stand,
conveyance or other item related to the operation of a vending business shall
be located on any village sidewalk or other public way during nonvending hours.
Nor shall any vehicles be parked, stored or left overnight other than in a
lawful parking place.
Exemption: Nonmotorized conveyance shall be allowed on public ways and spaces
at Plaza del Sol.
      6.   Littering; Trash Removal:
         a.   Vendors shall keep the sidewalks, roadways and other spaces
adjacent to their vending stand or locations clean and free of paper, peelings,
debris and refuse of any kind generated from the operation of their businesses.
         b.   Persons engaged in food vending shall affix to their vending
stand a receptacle for litter that shall be maintained and emptied regularly
and marked as being for litter. (Ord. 2011-05, 6-14-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 8 of this code.1.)
3-5-2: SPECIAL EVENTS FROM TWO HUNDRED TO SEVEN HUNDRED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: Small events such as fairs, musical performance, and other
events, which are not under the normal operation of existing businesses in the
village, and draw or expect to draw a group of people from two hundred (200) to
seven hundred (700) in size at any one time.
   B.   Application For License; Information Required: All vendors or sponsors
including nonprofit organizations must submit a request through the planning
division to have a special event. Before the planning division shall issue a
special event license for less than seven hundred (700) persons in attendance,
the vendor or organization shall supply the information as required for
itinerant vendors in subsection
3-5-1C of this chapter.
   C.   Time For Filing Application: Any itinerant vendor, excluding local
licensed merchants participating in an organized special event or function,
must submit his or her application for an itinerant vendor license to the
planning division at least one day in advance of conducting business in the
village. Organizations sponsoring the function are responsible for ensuring
that the itinerant vendors submit their applications to the planning division
in a timely manner.
   D.   Number Of Days Restricted; License Fee: Such events shall last no
longer than four (4) consecutive days, and the special event license shall cost
fifty dollars ($50.00) per day, exempting the fee for nonprofit organizations.
   E.   Event Location: The vendor will be required to hold the event in
approved zoned areas of the village, but in no case in any residential zone
unless approved by the village council.
   F.   Safety Measures:
      1.   The vendor may be required by the village council, as based on the
predicted public attendance of the event, to provide public safety measures to
include professional security, emergency medical services, fire protection, off
street parking of vehicles, law enforcement for the direction of traffic on
village streets at the entrances and exits to the event, and sanitation
requirements such as toilets and trash containers.
      2.   In the case of amusement rides being offered to the public, the
vendor must show proof of safety inspection of the rides prior to use, and that
the vendor has reasonable liability insurance to cover the rides and the event.
      3.   If the vendor erects any structures, the structures must be
inspected and approved for public safety by the village building official.
   G.   Other Licenses: The vendor shall be required to furnish proof of all
New Mexico state licensing requirements as may be required.
   H.   Compliance With Other Laws: The vendor shall obey all village, county
and state laws as they may apply to the event as to unreasonable noise and
other such requirements. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005)
3-5-3: SPECIAL EVENTS OVER SEVEN HUNDRED PERSONS:
   A.   Definition: Large events such as fairs, musical performances, and other
events, which are not under the normal operation of existing businesses in the
village, and the event draws or expects to draw a group of over seven hundred
(700) people at any one time.
   B.   Application For License; Information Required: All vendors or sponsors
including nonprofit organizations must submit a request through the village
council to have such a special event. Before the planning division shall issue
a special large event license, the vendor or sponsor shall have complied with
the village council requirements and supply the following information:
      1.   Name of business.
      2.   Mailing address of vendor or business and physical address if
different from mailing address.
      3.   Name of owners of the business indicating whether the business is a
sole proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation.
      4.   The nature of the special event.
      5.   The number of days during which the business shall be conducted in
the village, the dates for which application is made, and period of time, not
to exceed seven (7) days, for which a license is sought.
      6.   State of New Mexico tax identification number or evidence of an
application for a current revenue division taxpayer identification number.
      7.   Approval by the planning and zoning commission for any signs to be
used for advertising the special event.
      8.   A letter from the property owner, at the location intended for use
by the vendor, indicating the owner's permission and proof of ownership of the
property by the owner.
      9.   A drawing showing the approximate location where the special event
will take place in relation to the property involved.
   C.   Number Of Days Restricted; License Fees: Such events shall last no
longer than seven (7) consecutive days, and the license shall cost the vendor
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day, in addition to the itinerant vendor
fifty dollar ($50.00) license fee. The village council may waive fees for
nonprofit organizations.
   D.   Event Location: The vendor will be required to hold the event in
approved zoned areas of the village, but in no case in any residential zone
unless approved by the village council.
   E.   Safety Measures:
      1.   The vendor may be required to provide public safety measures to
include professional security, emergency medical services, fire protection, off
street parking of vehicles, law enforcement for the direction of traffic on
village streets at the entrance and exits to the event, and sanitation
requirements such as toilets and trash containers.
      2.   In the case of amusement rides being offered to the public, the
vendor must show proof of safety inspection of the rides prior to use, and that
the vendor has reasonable liability insurance to cover the rides and the event.
      3.   If the vendor erects any structures, the structures must be
inspected and approved for public safety by the village building official.
   F.   Other Licenses: The vendor shall be required to furnish proof of all
New Mexico state licensing requirements as may be required.
   G.   Compliance With Other Laws And Requirements:
      1.   The vendor shall be required to meet all other reasonable
requirements as may be required by the council as based on the predicted public
attendance of the event. The vendor may be required to provide additional funds
to the village to hire additional law enforcement officers and other support
personnel for the village for every seven hundred (700) persons expected to
attend the event each day.
      2.   The vendor shall obey all village, county and state laws as they may
apply to the event as to unreasonable noise and other such requirements. (Ord.
2005-02, 2-17-2005)
3-5-4: PENALTIES:
Any person or organization which violates this chapter or fails to follow the
plan upon which a license is based shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2005-02, 2-17-2005)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
3-6-1: Short Title
3-6-2: Authority
3-6-3: Purpose; Development Act
3-6-4: Definitions
3-6-5: Development Projects
3-6-6: Application Requirements
3-6-7: Review Criteria
3-6-8: Public Safeguards
3-6-9: Project Participation Agreement
3-6-10: Project Monies
3-6-11: Termination
3-6-12: Joint Regional Projects
3-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority conferred upon
municipalities to allow public support of economic development 1
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA §§ 5-10-1 – 5-10-13 (1978).1. This chapter is adopted as part of the
  village's economic development plan. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-3: PURPOSE; DEVELOPMENT ACT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to allow public support of
economic projects to foster, promote and enhance local economic development
efforts while continuing to protect against the unauthorized use of public
money and other public resources. Further, the purpose of this chapter is to
allow the village to enter into one or more joint powers agreement with other
local governments to plan and support regional economic development projects.
   B.   Local Economic Development Act: Local governments are allowed to
provide direct or indirect assistance to qualifying businesses for furthering
or implementing economic development plan and projects, furthermore local and
regional governments have the authority to contribute assets to development
projects; however, the imposition of a tax must be approved by the voters in
referendum.
      1.   Eligible Uses: Municipalities may impose municipal infrastructure
gross receipts tax and dedicate the revenue for economic development projects.
A total of 0.25 percent tax (in 4 increments of 0.0625 percent) may be imposed.
(Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: The provision of direct or indirect assistance to
a qualifying business and includes the purchase, lease, grant, or construction,
reconstruction, improvement or other acquisition or conveyance of land,
buildings or other infrastructure; public works improvements essential to the
location expansion of a qualifying business; and payments for professional
services contracts necessary for local or regional governments to implement a
plan or project.
GOVERNING BODY: The village of Angel Fire council.
PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT: An agreement between a qualifying entity and
the village whereby the village provides assistance to an economic development
project in exchange for the benefits received as set forth in this chapter.
QUALIFYING ENTITY: An existing or proposed corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, association or other person
that is one or a combination of two (2) or more of the following:
A. An industry for manufacturing, processing, or assembling of any agricultural
or manufactured products;
B. A commercial enterprise for storing, warehousing, distributing, or selling
products of agriculture, mining or industry, but other than provided in
subsection D of this definition, not including any enterprise for sale of goods
or commodities at retail or for the distribution to the public of electricity,
gas, water, or telephone or other services commonly classified as public
utilities;
C. A business in which all or part of the activities of the business involves
the supplying of services to the general public or to government agencies or to
a specific industry or customer, but, other than provided in subsection D of
this definition, not including businesses primarily engaged in the sale of
goods or commodities at retail;
D. A telecommunications sales enterprise that makes the majority of its sales
to persons outside of New Mexico. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-5: DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS:
   A.   The village of Angel Fire manager after approval of the governing body
may assist economic development projects in any legally permissible manner
including, but not limited to, provision of land, buildings and infrastructure
provided that all the requirements of this chapter are met. The village may
provide land, buildings or infrastructure it already owns, or it may build,
purchase or lease the facilities needed for an economic development project.
The village at its discretion may bear the full cost or contribute a portion of
the costs including the waiver of applicable fees. The village, at its
discretion, may also contribute to the payment of costs for professional
service contracts such as industry feasibility studies and planning and design
services needed to implement a project.
   B.   The governing body may consider offering all forms of assistance
allowed under this chapter and any other legally permissible forms of
assistance; however, this does not establish any obligation on the village's
part to offer any specific type or level of assistance. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-
2006)
3-6-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any "qualifying entity" meeting the definition set forth in section
3-6-4 of this chapter may propose an economic development project to the
village. Meeting the definition of a "qualifying entity" does not create any
obligation on the part of the village of Angel Fire.
   B.   Applications from qualifying entities shall be submitted to the village
of Angel Fire on forms provided by the village.
   C.   Applications shall contain the following information for business
applicants:
      1.   Identification information:
         a.   Complete name and address of entity;
         b.   Incorporation papers with bylaws;
         c.   List of board of directors and executive director, with
addresses; and
         d.   Resumes of all directors and officers.
      2.   Evidence of financial solvency (personal statement of principals):
         a.   Financial statement (income statement and balance sheets) for the
past three (3) years;
         b.   Federal tax number, New Mexico state taxation and revenue number
and village business license;
         c.   Projected income statement for at least three (3) years.
      3.   Evidence of organizational capacity:
         a.   Brief history of the entity;
         b.   Organizational chart of the entity;
         c.   Business plans for the entity and proposed project (shall include
pro forma cash flow analysis).
   D.   The project participation agreement and any other pertinent information
will be forwarded to the governing body for final consideration at a public
meeting. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-7: REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   Applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village, which meet the policies and objectives of the
village's economic development plan, shall receive priority. Examples include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Manufacturing firms (including intellectual property such as
computer software);
      2.   Projects, which enhance the exporting capacity of companies and/or
provide goods and services, which currently have to be imported into the
village of Angel Fire;
      3.   Private companies seeking to build, expand or relocate facilities;
      4.   Private companies which provide facilities or services which enhance
the ability of Angel Fire businesses to operate;
      5.   Organizations, which assist business startups or bring small
companies together to increase their competitive abilities. This must involve a
tangible project, which will create jobs and promote an industry. Examples
include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Business incubators;
         b.   Art incubators or coalition (e.g., a performing arts coalition
seeking construction of rehearsal or performance facilities);
         c.   Public markets for farmers, gardeners, crafts, etc.; and
         d.   Organizations which foster economic development by promoting work
force development efforts such as apprenticeships or other job training
programs;
      6.   Projects in industry clusters listed above are particularly
encouraged, but others are eligible to apply as well. The intention is to
retain flexibility in the use of incentives; and
      7.   Qualifying entities with existing contracts or projects with the
village when this plan is adopted may propose a restructuring of their projects
as an economic development project.
   B.   All applications for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall submit a cost benefit analysis. Preparing a
cost benefit analysis shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The village
retains the right to specify a format and methodology for the cost benefit
analysis. The village council shall review and approve the methodology used.
The source and rationale for any multiplier effects shall be identified. The
cost benefit analysis shall show that the village will recoup the value of its
donation within a period of ten (10) years. The analysis shall address the
following:
      1.   The number and type of jobs to be created, both temporary
construction jobs and permanent jobs (by New Mexico department of labor job
category);
      2.   Pay scale of jobs;
      3.   Determination of which jobs are expected to be filled locally and
which will be filled by transfers from other facilities or recruited from
outside the Angel Fire area;
      4.   Total payroll expected at startup and after one year;
      5.   Anticipated impact on local tax base; and
      6.   Anticipated impact on local school systems.
   C.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall require the same review required of
industrial revenue bond applications. This review shall focus on environmental
and community impacts of proposed projects. Special attention shall be given to
job training and career advancement programs and policies. Projects shall
demonstrate a strong commitment to providing career opportunities for Angel
Fire area residents. Cultural impacts of projects shall also be considered.
   D.   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance shall prepare and make
available a job training and career development plan for their employees.
   E.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting economic
assistance from the village shall clearly demonstrate the benefits, which will
accrue to the community as a result of the donation of public resources. The
village has considerable flexibility in determining what is considered as
adequate benefits. Benefits such as providing components or production
capabilities, which enhance a targeted industry cluster, or addressing critical
deficiencies in regional economy, may be recognized. The benefits claimed of
any proposal will receive careful scrutiny. However, it is the intent of this
chapter to be flexible in the evaluation of these benefits, and to recognize
the qualitative as well as quantitative impact of a proposal.
   F.   All applicants for economic development projects requesting assistance
from the village shall clearly demonstrate how the qualifying entity is making
a substantive contribution. The contribution shall be of value and may be paid
in money, in-kind services, jobs, expanded tax base, property or other thing or
service of value for the expansion or improvement of the economy. The village
retains flexibility in defining the "substantive contributions". The benefits
identified in the previous paragraphs may be accepted as adequate contributions
on their own, or cash donations may be required. Assistance in providing
affordable housing to its employees or the community at large may also qualify.
Determination of what constitutes an acceptable contribution for a given
project shall be at the discretion of the governing body. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-
2006)
3-6-8: PUBLIC SAFEGUARDS:
   A.   All economic development projects receiving assistance from the village
shall be subject to an annual performance review conducted by the village of
Angel Fire. This review shall evaluate whether the project is attaining the
goals and objectives set forth in the project participation agreement. This
review shall be presented to the governing body for their consideration. The
governing body at a public hearing may terminate assistance to the economic
development project by provisions set forth in the agreement, which terminates
the agreement and specifies the disposition of all assets and obligations of
the project.
   B.   The village shall retain a security interest, which shall be specific
in the project participation agreement. The type of security given shall depend
upon the nature of the economic development project and assistance provided by
the village. Types of security may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Letter of credit in the village's name;
      2.   Performance bond equal to the village's contribution;
      3.   A mortgage or lien on the property or equipment;
      4.   Prorated reimbursement of donation if company reduces work force or
leaves the community before the term agreed to; and
      5.   Other security agreeable to both parties.
   C.   Should a qualifying entity move, sell, lease or transfer a majority
interest in the economic development project before the expiration of the
project participation agreement, the village retains the right to deny any and
all assignments, sales, leases or transfers of any interests in the economic
development project until adequate assurances are made that the transferee,
assignee or lessee is a qualifying entity and that the terms of the agreement
will be satisfied by the transferee, assignee or lessee. At its discretion, the
village may choose to deny said assignment, lease or transfer or may negotiate
a new agreement with the new operator, or the village may reclaim the facility
and enter into an agreement with the new qualifying entity.
   D.   Any qualifying entity seeking assistance from public resources shall
commit to operate in accordance with its project participation agreement for a
minimum of ten (10) years from the date the ordinance is adopted and the
project participation agreement is passed by the governing body. (Ord. 2006-13,
11-15-2006)
3-6-9: PROJECT PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   The qualifying entity shall prepare with the village a project
participation agreement. This agreement is the formal document, which states
the contribution and obligation of all parties in the economic development
project. The agreement must state the following items:
      1.   The economic development goals of the project;
      2.   The contribution of the village and the qualifying entity;
      3.   The specific measurable objectives upon which the performance review
will be read;
      4.   A schedule for project development and goal attainment;
      5.   The security being offered for the village's investment;
      6.   The procedures by which a project may be terminated and the
village's investment recovered; and
      7.   The time period for which the village shall retain an interest in
the project. Each project agreement shall have a "sunset" clause after which
the village shall relinquish interest in and oversight of the project.
   B.   Each project participation agreement shall be subject to review and
approval by the governing body at a public hearing. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-10: PROJECT MONIES:
All project monies shall be kept in a separate account by the entity and the
village, with such account clearly identified. These accounts shall be subject
to an annual independent audit. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-11: TERMINATION:
The governing body may terminate this chapter and the village's economic
development plan and any or all project participation agreements undertaken
under its authority. Termination shall be by ordinance at a public hearing or
in accordance with the terms of the project participation agreement. If an
ordinance or a project participation agreement is terminated, all contract
provisions of the project participation agreement regarding termination shall
be satisfied. Upon termination of the ordinance or any project participation
agreement, any village monies remaining in the village project accounts shall
be transferred to the village's general fund. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
3-6-12: JOINT REGIONAL PROJECTS:
The village may engage in economic development projects involving one or more
other government entities for projects, which encompass more than one
municipality or county. In such instances, the relevant governing bodies shall
adopt a joint powers agreement. This agreement will establish the application
criteria and the terms of all project participation agreements. Criteria
established under a joint powers agreement shall be consistent with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-15-2006)
CHAPTER 7
SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY FEE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Imposition Of Sports And Recreation Facility Fee
3-7-3: Review Of Fee
3-7-4: No Reduction Of Fee
3-7-5: Dedication Of Fee Revenues
3-7-6: Exemptions
3-7-7: Collection Of Sports And Recreation Facility Fee; Reporting; Records
3-7-8: Audit Of Vendors
3-7-9: Financial Reporting
3-7-10: Enforcement
3-7-11: Collection Of Delinquencies
3-7-12: Lien For Sports And Recreation Facility Fee; Payment; Certificate Of
Lien
3-7-13: Dispute Resolution
3-7-14: Financial Reporting To State
3-7-15: Penalties
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY: A qualified municipality authorized by the sports
and recreation facility act to impose sports and recreation facility fees.
LODGING FACILITY: A hotel, motel or motor hotel, a bed and breakfast facility,
an inn, a resort or other facility offering rooms for payment of rent or other
consideration.
QUALIFIED MUNICIPALITY: An incorporated municipality that has a population of
more than one thousand (1,000) but less than one thousand fifty (1,050)
according to the 2000 federal decennial census located in a class B county.
ROOM: A unit of a lodging facility, such as a hotel room.
SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY FEE: The fee imposed by a local government
entity pursuant to the sports and recreation facility financing act on vendees
for the use of lodging facilities.
VENDEE: A person who rents or pays consideration to a vendor for use of a room.
VENDOR: A person or his agent who furnishes rooms for occupancy for
consideration.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, New Mexico. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-2: IMPOSITION OF SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY FEE:
   A.   The village hereby imposes a fee on the use of each room within each
lodging facility located in the village, which shall be known as the "sports
and recreation facility fee". The amount of the sports and recreation facility
fee shall be 2.4 percent of the gross room revenue for each day the room is
occupied by a vendee. The sports and recreation facility fee shall be imposed
for a period of not more than twenty (20) years from the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-3: REVIEW OF FEE:
The sports and recreation facility fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be reviewed by the governing body of the village annually and the governing
body shall determine that the sports and recreation facility facilitates the
goal of increasing tourism in the village. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-4: NO REDUCTION OF FEE:
The village shall not decrease the sports and recreation facility fee while
revenue bonds to which the revenue of the sports and recreation facility fees
is pledged remain outstanding. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-5: DEDICATION OF FEE REVENUES:
The revenue from the sports and recreation facility fee is hereby dedicated to
the following:
   A.   The design, construction, equipping, furnishing, landscaping and other
costs associated with the development of a sports and recreation facility
located within the village;
   B.   Payments of principal, interest or prior redemption premiums due in
connection with and any other charges pertaining to revenue bonds authorized by
the sports and recreation facility financing act, including payments into any
sinking fund or reserve fund required by the revenue bond ordinance;
   C.   Costs of collecting and otherwise administering the sports and
recreation facility fee; provided that administration costs shall not be paid
if there are current payments due pursuant to subsection B of this section and
that no more than ten percent (10%) of the revenue collected in any fiscal year
shall be used to pay administration costs;
   D.   Operation costs of the sports and recreation facility located within
the village; provided that no such costs shall be paid if there are current
payments due pursuant to subsection B of this section; and
   E.   Payments into a capital reserve fund established for the future payment
for capital maintenance and improvements and equipment replacement costs of the
sports and recreation facility located within the village; provided that no
payments shall be made pursuant to this subsection if there are current
payments due pursuant to subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The sports and recreation facility fee shall not apply:
   A.   If the village by ordinance exempts lodging facilities whose maximum
daily room charge is less than the amount stated in the ordinance;
   B.   To rooms at institutions of the federal government, the state or any
political subdivision thereof;
   C.   To rooms at religious, charitable, educational or philanthropic
institutions or other nonprofit organizations, including rooms at summer camps
operated by such institutions;
   D.   To clinics, hospitals or other medical facilities;
   E.   To privately owned and operated convalescent homes or homes for the
aged, infirm, indigent or chronically ill; or
   F.   If the vendor does not offer at least three (3) rooms at its lodging
facility. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-7: COLLECTION OF SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY FEE; REPORTING; RECORDS:
   A.   A vendor providing rooms in the village shall collect the fee on behalf
of the village and shall remit the fees collected to the village on or before
the twenty fifth of each month along with the lodger's tax fees.
   B.   The sports and recreation facility fee shall be collected by a vendor
from vendees as a room surcharge at the time that rent is collected by the
vendor and shall be accounted for separately from the rent fixed by the vendor
for rooms. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-8: AUDIT OF VENDORS:
The village shall include verification of the collection of the correct sports
and recreation facility fee in any audit of a vendor conducted pursuant to
section 3-38-17.1 New Mexico Statutes Annotated 1978. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-9: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
The chief financial officer of the village shall report to the local government
division of the department of finance and administration on a quarterly basis
any expenditure of sports and recreation facility fee funds. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-
3-2008)
3-7-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   An action to enforce the act may be brought by:
      1.   The attorney general or the district attorney in the county of
jurisdiction; or
      2.   A vendor who is collecting the proceeds of a sports and recreation
facility fee in the county of jurisdiction.
   B.   A district court may issue a writ of mandamus or order an injunction or
other appropriate remedy to enforce the provisions of the act.
   C.   The court shall award costs and reasonable attorney fees to the
prevailing party in a court action to enforce the provisions of the act. (Ord.
2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-11: COLLECTION OF DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   The vendor is liable for the payment of the proceeds of sports and
recreation facility fees that the vendor failed to remit to the village.
Failure of the vendor to collect the fee is not cause for the village to
forgive sports and recreation facility fees due and owed by the vendor. A civil
penalty is imposed for each occurrence of failure to remit sports and
recreation facility fees in an amount equal to the greater of ten percent (10%)
of the amount that was not duly remitted to the village or one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   B.   The village may bring an action in the district court of the judicial
district in which the village is located for collection of amounts due,
including, without limitation, penalties on the amounts due on the unpaid
principal at a rate not exceeding one percent (1%) per month, the costs of
collection and reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection with the court
action to collect the unpaid sports and recreation facility fees. (Ord. 2008-
04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-12: LIEN FOR SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY FEE; PAYMENT; CERTIFICATE OF
LIEN:
   A.   The sports and recreation facility fee assessed by the village
constitutes a lien in favor of the village upon the personal and real property
of the vendor providing lodging facilities in the village. The lien may be
enforced as provided in sections 3-36-1 through 3-36-7 New Mexico Statutes
Annotated, 1978. Priority of the lien shall be determined from the date of
filing.
   B.   Under process or order of court, a person shall not sell the property
of a vendor without first ascertaining from the clerk or treasurer of the
village in which the vendor is located the amount of any sports and recreation
facility fees due. Sports and recreation facility fees due the village shall be
paid from the proceeds of the sale before payment is made to the judgment
creditor or any other person with a claim on the sale proceeds.
   C.   The clerk or treasurer of the village shall furnish a certificate of
lien to a person applying for a certificate showing the amount of all liens in
the records of the village against any vendor pursuant to the act. (Ord. 2008-
04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-13: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   If the vendor disputes the amount of the sports and recreation facility
fee due to the village, it shall submit its complaint in writing to the
village's administrator. If the dispute is not resolved within five (5) working
days by the administrator, the vendor may submit its complaint in writing to
the village council. If the dispute is not resolved within five (5) working
days by the village council, the vendor may pursue any other remedies to which
it is entitled.
   B.   The village may refund all or part of any sports and recreation
facilities fee paid in error or to resolve a dispute. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-14: FINANCIAL REPORTING TO STATE:
The village administrator or designee shall report to the local government
division of the department of finance and administration on a quarterly basis
any expenditures of convention center fee funds. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
3-7-15: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violation of the act is a misdemeanor with a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days or both for a violation by any person of the provisions of this
chapter for a failure to pay the fee or to remit the proceeds thereof to the
village. (Ord. 2008-04, 6-3-2008)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created
4-1-2: Fire Chief
4-1-3: Authority And Powers
4-1-4: Members Designated As Special Police
4-1-5: Obstructing Or Interfering With Firefighters
4-1-6: Penalties
4-1-7: Fire Code
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is created a department of the Village government to be known as the Fire
Department. The firefighting organization which is organized as the Village
Volunteer Fire Department and the combination of employees and volunteers of
the Village so assigned are recognized as the existing Fire Department and a
department of the Village. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-24-
2024)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF:
The Mayor, with the advice and consent of a majority of all the members of the
Village Council, shall appoint a Fire Chief who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Governing Body. The Fire Chief shall receive a salary as provided in the
Village budget. The Fire Chief shall report to the Village Manager on all
matters concerning the administration of the Fire Department including, but not
limited to: emergency medical services, field operations, planning, staffing,
recruitment and retention, training, budgeting, and all matters for the
development and improvement of the Fire Department. The Fire Chief shall advise
on matters concerning the implementation and enforcement of Fire and Life
Safety Codes as the enforcement officer/agency head. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017;
amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-24-2024)
4-1-3: AUTHORITY AND POWERS:
The Fire Department shall have full and complete authority in connection with
fighting any fire and responding to any emergency that may arise within the
Village or outside the Village in any area the department is given
responsibility to respond pursuant to ordinance, rule, regulation, statute or
agreement. The department has the power to do and perform all necessary or
expedient acts for the fighting of fire and mitigation of the emergency. When
called to a fire or emergency scene, the Fire Department shall have full and
complete authority of the premises to which it has been summoned until the fire
has been extinguished and the emergency resolved and the premises are deemed
safe by the Fire Department. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-
24-2024)
4-1-4: MEMBERS DESIGNATED AS SPECIAL POLICE:
Every member duly enrolled and in good standing in the Fire Department shall be
a special police officer of the Village with power to act as such from the time
of the sounding of any emergency alarm until the apparatus and equipment for
fighting fire or mitigating the emergency has been returned to the fire
station. In addition, the Fire Chief has the authority to issue a written
citation for any unauthorized vehicle parking in or obstructing a designated
fire lane. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-24-2024)
4-1-5: OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS:
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, annoy or interfere with firefighters
while in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord.
2024-07, 12-24-2024)
4-1-6: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every day that any such violation continues constitutes a
separate offense. The penalty for parking in or obstructing a designated fire
lane shall be a required appearance in Angel Fire Municipal Court and no less
than a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine, and each occurrence thereafter shall be a
penalty left to the discretion of the Municipal Judge. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-
2017; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-24-2024)
4-1-7: FIRE CODE:
An ordinance adopting the 2021 edition of the International Fire Code.
Regulating and governing, the safe-guarding of life and property from fire and
explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling, and use of hazardous
substance, materials, and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the Village of Angel
Fire; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees. This
chapter shall meet or exceed the most current edition of the International Fire
Code recognized by the State Fire Marshal's Office, a division of the New
Mexico Public Regulation Commission. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-
09, 9-24-2019; Ord. 2024-07, 12-24-2024)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE HAZARDS 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Open Fires And Fireworks Prohibited On Public Ways And Property
4-2-3: Fireworks
4-2-4: Open Fires
4-2-5: Ban On Open Fires And Fireworks
4-2-6: Fire Hazards During Drought Conditions
4-2-7: Improper Handling Of Fire
4-2-8: Enforcement
4-2-9: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2B-12 of this Code.1
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
AERIAL FIREWORKS DEVICE: Any device that, upon ignition, propels itself or an
insert more than six feet (6') into the air.
GROUND AUDIBLE DEVICE: Any fireworks intended to function on the ground that
produces an audible effect. This includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers
of any type and size, cherry bombs, M-80s, and other exploding devices and any
device producing a loud report, whistle or shriek.
OPEN FIRE: Any manner of burning, not in a device or chamber, designed to
achieve combustion, where the products of combustion are emitted, directly or
indirectly, into the open air.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or any
other entity owning, operating, controlling or occupying or inhabiting any
house, residence, shop establishment, or other premises within the corporate
limits of the Village of Angel Fire.
PREMISES: Any property within the Village and shall also mean, but not be
limited to, business places, apartment houses, offices, theaters, hotels,
residences, cafes, restaurants, eating places, tourist facilities, hospitals,
schools, vacant lots and any other places or locations within the Village
limits where flammable or combustible materials may accumulate.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Knowingly creating or maintaining anything affecting any
number of citizens without lawful authority which is either:
A. Injurious to public health, safety, morals or welfare; or
B. Interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of public rights, including the
right to use public property. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2017-05, 6-
13-2017)
4-2-2: OPEN FIRES AND FIREWORKS PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
Pursuant to the Village's rights and duty to protect its property, New Mexico
Statutes Annotated section 3-18-1, its rights to have its parks under its
immediate control, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-18-18, and its duty
and right to regulate the use of its streets, New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 3-49-1, it is unlawful to intentionally cause, create, tend or allow an
open fire of any type, except a barbecue fire in an approved barbecue container
manufactured specifically for that purpose, or display or discharge any
fireworks of any kind, including, but not limited to, firecrackers, cherry
bombs, M-80s, Roman candles, sky rockets, torpedo bombs, or any other type of
pyrotechnic device in or on any Municipally owned property including buildings,
parking lots, parks, recreation areas, streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters or public grounds. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999)
4-2-3: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Possession And Sales:
      1.   Prohibited Fireworks: Pursuant to the Village's statutory power to
regulate fireworks found in New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 60-2C-7 and
3-18-11, it is unlawful to manufacture, sell, offer to sell, own, possess or
discharge any aerial fireworks device or ground audible device within the
limits of the Village.
      2.   Permitted Fireworks: The Village permits the sale and use of toy
canes, toy guns, and other toys that use paper caps containing twenty five
hundredths (25/100) grains or less of explosive compound.
   B.   Public Displays: The Village Council, with approval from the Village
Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee, may, on application, allow any Municipal
or civic organization to conduct an officially supervised and controlled
fireworks display in connection with any public celebration. The Village
Council may further allow, on application, a licensed business to use blank
cartridges in a controlled and supervised public display. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-
1999)
4-2-4: OPEN FIRES:
Open fires are discouraged but permitted under the following circumstances with
approval from the Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee, on application,
to allow any person or business to conduct an officially supervised or
controlled burn for the following:
   A.   Recreation And Ceremonial Uses: Open fires are permitted for
recreational and ceremonial purposes with the approval of the Village Fire
Chief or Fire Chief's designee.
   B.   Natural Gas: Open burning of natural gas is permitted at a gasoline
plant and compressor station and when used or produced in drilling, completion
and work over operations of oil and gas wells when necessary to avoid serious
hazard to safety.
   C.   Permits For Certain Fires: Subject to whatever conditions the New
Mexico Environment Department and the Village may impose, open burning is
permitted for the following purposes when permits are obtained from the Village
Fire Department, with approval of Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee:
weed abatement; prevention of fire hazards; instruction and training of bona
fide firefighting and fire rescue personnel; civil defense; conservation;
disease and pest control; forestry management; land clearance that may include
the ski area, golf course, hiking and greenbelts (1/2 acre or less) and other
special circumstances.
      1.   Permit Required; Application: A written permit authorizing an open
fire must be obtained from the Village Fire Department prior to commencing
burning. Application for such permit may be made through the Fire Department
Business Office during normal working hours. The following is required to
obtain a permit authorizing an open fire:
         a.   A written permit must be obtained from the Village Fire
Department. (Permit fees and stand-by fees may apply if the Fire Chief, or Fire
Chief's designee, determines a need exists to officially supervise an open
burn.)
         b.   Approval by the Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee.
(Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017)
            (1)   The Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee may revoke a
permit if changes in weather conditions or fire hazard warrants.
            (2)   In the event of any negligent act or omission of the
requirements of this chapter at the scene of an open fire, the permit can be
revoked by any Fire Department personnel or law enforcement officer on site.
(Ord. 2004-02, 3-26-2004)
      2.   Conditions Of Permit: Any open fire permitted under this subsection
must be maintained under the following conditions:
         a.   All fires must be under the control of and maintained by a
responsible party; open fires must be attended at all times; for purposes of
weed abatement or open burning of light timber, the burn pile may not exceed
three feet by three feet by two feet tall (3' x 3' x 2'), must contain dry
weeds only, or light timber must be no larger than two inches (2") in diameter
and no larger than three feet (3') long. Only one (1) pile at a time may be
burned and an extinguishment source (water hose or bucket, approved fire
extinguisher) must be within fifteen feet (15') of the open burn; (Ord. 2017-
05, 6-13-2017)
         b.   Responsible party must keep required permits available and
present required permits to Fire Department personnel or a law enforcement
officer upon request;
         c.   The emission of smoke shall not be allowed to pass onto or across
a public road or landing strip such that a hazard is created by impairment of
visibility; (Ord. 2004-02, 3-26-2004)
         d.   No natural or synthetic rubber or petroleum products may be
burned; for the purpose of frost control in agricultural operations, natural
petroleum products may be burned. Materials which are strictly prohibited from
burning are:
            (1)   Hazardous or toxic materials (such as batteries, tires,
plastic, and paint or chemical containers).
            (2)   Construction debris (such as treated lumber, insulated wires
or insulation).
            (3)   Commercial, medical, or business waste. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-
2017)
            (4)   Any type of standing structure (except as allowed for fire
agency training exercise).
            (5)   Any materials that produce excessive smoke (such as large
stumps, root balls, trunks and materials that are larger than 8 inches in
diameter).
         e.   Care must be taken to minimize the amount of dirt on the material
being burned; (Ord. 2004-02, 3-26-2004)
         f.   All burning must take place between one-half (1/2) hour after
sunrise and one-half (1/2) hour before sunset; (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017)
         g.   The materials to be burned must be as dry as possible; and
         h.   Require standby firefighting apparatus at all times. The Fire
Chief or his designee must preapprove the private firefighting apparatus and
personnel. The Fire Chief or designee shall approve all firefighting apparatus
and personnel.
      3.   Fees: The Village shall impose a fee for the issuance of permits and
apparatus.
         a.   A permit fee schedule will be maintained by the Angel Fire Fire
Department and approved by the Governing Body.
         b.   Apparatus fee schedule will also be maintained by the Angel Fire
Fire Department and approved by the Governing Body.
         c.   Apparatus fees will only apply when Angel Fire Fire Department
equipment is used. (Ord. 2004-02, 3-26-2004)
4-2-5: BAN ON OPEN FIRES AND FIREWORKS 1
   A.   Ban Authorized: Pursuant to the Village's powers and duties to adopt
regulations for the prevention of fire and regulate the use of illuminating
flames and bonfires found in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-18-11, the
Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee shall monitor the fire danger in
the Village and the surrounding forest. When the Fire Chief specifically finds
that the fire danger is such that the use of open flames or fires would create
an imminent danger to citizens, visitors or property, the Fire Chief shall
issue a notice which imposes a ban on open fires and the sale or use of
fireworks.
   B.   Notice And Effect Of Ban: Notice of the ban shall be prominently posted
in public places in the Village including the Fire Department and the Village
Hall. The ban shall be effective upon posting.
   C.   Activities Restricted:
      1.   During such ban, it will be unlawful within the Village limits to
intentionally cause, create, tend or allow an open fire of any type, except a
barbecue fire in an approved gas grill manufactured specifically for that
purpose. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999)
      2.   Except for welding or soldering torches and other similar hand held
tools or equipment used inside an appropriate business or building, it shall
also be unlawful, during the ban, to cause or create any type of open flame or
spark that emanates more than two inches (2") from the source. (Ord. 2017-05,
6-13-2017)
      3.   During such ban, it shall also be unlawful to sell or discharge any
type of fireworks whatsoever in the Village. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999)
   D.   Review Of Fire Dangers; Ban Lifted:
      1.   Once a ban is in place, the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee
shall review the fire danger within thirty (30) days of the date of the ban to
determine whether the fire danger has subsided and the ban should be lifted.
      2.   The Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee can lift the ban at any time
he or she shall determine that the danger has subsided. (Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-
2017)
      3.   The Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee shall prominently post
notice of any extension of the ban in public places in the Village including
the Fire Department and Village Hall. The extension shall be effective upon
posting. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2017-05, 6-13-2017)
   E.   Appeals: Any aggrieved person may appeal the Fire Chief's finding to
the Village Council. Such appeal shall be in writing, shall be filed with the
Village Clerk no later than two (2) business days after posting, and will be
decided at or before the next regularly scheduled Council meeting. Any ban that
is appealed shall remain in effect during the pendency of an appeal. (Ord.
1999-04, 7-15-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-2-6 of this chapter.1:
4-2-6: FIRE HAZARDS DURING DROUGHT CONDITIONS 1
   A.   Purpose And Authority: The Governing Body, during certain periods of
time, when the condition of fire hazard exists, may declare this section
enforceable by resolution. Now, therefore, be it resolved that any activity
that could potentially cause a fire is hereby prohibited by posting of said
resolution. Such resolution, when adopted, shall be posted in at least six (6)
public places in the Village and shall be effective immediately upon such
posting, and shall remain in effect until such resolution is either rescinded
or superseded by another resolution of the Governing Body. No further notice
shall be required to charge a violation of this section.
   B.   Prohibitions: The following are specifically prohibited upon adoption
of the resolution enforcing this section:
      1.   Use of trail bikes, chain saws and ATVs in the Village without a
spark arrester.
      2.   Any other activity that is deemed as a fire hazard, i.e., any
outdoor welding except with permission from the Village Fire Chief and with a
fire extinguisher (ABC) on site.
      3.   All fireworks per section
5-2B-12 of this Code.
      4.   Outside smoking is restricted to designated and equipped areas,
within structures or within vehicles equipped with ashtrays. Open fires and
campfires are restricted to developed campgrounds or areas designated in
writing by the Village Fire Chief. Any discarding of lit or unlit cigarettes
will be in violation of this section.
      5.   Open burning, i.e., burning of cropland, fields, rangeland, debris,
and slash piles, prescribed burning or weed burning, is prohibited. Charcoal
broilers or grills and wood and coal stoves used outside of dwellings are
classified as campfires and are prohibited except in developed campgrounds or
areas designated in writing by the Village Fire Chief.
   C.   Exemptions: Exempt from this section is any Federal, State or local
officer or member of an organization or firefighting force doing any act
prohibited herein in the performance of an official duty, with the approval of
the Village Fire Chief. (Ord. 2002-05)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor
and may be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2002-05; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-2-5 of this chapter.1:
4-2-7: IMPROPER HANDLING OF FIRE 1
Improper handling of fire consists of the following; provided, that nothing
herein shall constitute improper handling of fire where the fire is a backfire
set for the purpose of stopping the progress of a fire then actually burning:
   A.   Setting fire, or causing or procuring a fire to be set, to any
inflammable vegetation or forest material growing or being on the lands of
another without the permission of the owner thereof;
   B.   Allowing fire to escape or spread from the control of the person having
charge thereof without using reasonable and proper precaution to prevent such
fire from escaping or spreading;
   C.   Burning any inflammable vegetation or forest material, whether upon his
own land or that of another person, without using proper and reasonable
precaution at all times to prevent the escape of such fire;
   D.   Leaving any campfire burning and unattended upon lands of another
person; or
   E.   Causing a fire to be started in any inflammable vegetation or forest
material growing or being upon lands of another person by means of any lighted
cigar, cigarette, match or other manner, and leaving such fire unquenched.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 2 of this Code for penalty and general provisions.1:
4-2-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Any Village police officer or the Village Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee,
upon observing burning within the Village, if such is prohibited by this
chapter or the person committing or permitting does not have the proper permits
and approval to do so as required by this chapter, shall issue a citation or
cause a complaint to be filed in the Municipal Court. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999)
4-2-9: PENALTIES:
The penalties for any violation of this chapter are as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1999-04, 7-15-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Purpose
4-3-3: Definitions
4-3-4: Prohibited Acts
4-3-5: Collection Of Solid Waste
4-3-6: Transfer And Disposal Of Solid Waste
4-3-7: Waste Diversion And Recycling
4-3-8: Rate Payer Classifications And Obligations
4-3-9: Rates, Fees And Deposits
4-3-10: Liens
4-3-11: Slash Program
4-3-12: Enforcement And Penalties
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2001-
08, 7-27-2001)
4-3-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To define practices for an integrated solid waste management system for
the village including, but not limited to, waste reduction, recycling and
diversion, collection, transfer, transport and disposal. Such system and
practices are set forth to protect the environment, health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the village.
   B.   To establish minimum standards and requirements for the collection,
transfer, transport and disposal of solid waste generated within the service
area. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
4-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ASHES: Residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
materials.
BACK YARD COMPOSTING: Composting household organic matter in a confined space
within personal property boundaries.
BULK LIQUIDS: Any liquids to be disposed of that are in a volume greater than
one gallon.
BURNING: Any form of incineration of solid waste.
COLLECTION: The systematic and regular removal of solid waste from property and
its transfer or transport to a designated solid waste facility for disposal.
COMPOST: Organic matter produced from solid waste which has undergone a
controlled process of decomposition and pathogen reduction, and has been
stabilized to a degree which is potentially beneficial to plant growth and
which is used as a soil amendment, growing medium amendment or other similar
uses.
COMPOSTING: The process by which biological decomposition of organic solid
waste occurs under controlled conditions. The process stabilizes the organic
faction into a material that can be easily and safely stored, handled and used
in an environmentally acceptable manner.
CONSTITUENT: Serving to form, compose, or make up a unit or whole component.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Materials generally considered not to be
water soluble and nonhazardous in nature including, but not limited to, steel,
glass, brick, concrete, asphalt, roofing materials, pipe, gypsum wallboard and
lumber from the construction or demolition of a structure, and includes rocks,
soil, tree remains, trees and other vegetative matter that normally result from
land clearing. "Construction and demolition debris" does not include asbestos
or liquids including, but not limited to, waste paints, solvents, sealers,
adhesives or potentially hazardous materials.
CONTAINER: Authorized public or private receptacles designed for intermediate
storage of solid waste until such time refuse is collected. This term shall
also mean containers designated for the intermediate storage of recyclable
materials.
CUSTOMER: Residential or nonresidential persons who receive solid waste
disposal service from the village of Angel Fire. See also definition of User.
DAY: Calendar day unless otherwise described.
DEBRIS: The unwanted or unusable remains of something broken down or destroyed.
DUMPING: A. Disposing of solid waste or any other discarded material on
property within the village which is private including, but not limited to,
privately owned or controlled dumpsters, parking lots and vacant lots.
B. Disposing of solid waste or discarding any other items on a public place or
on public property or facility which shall include, but is not limited to, the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purpose of vehicular travel.
C. Allowing refuse to collect or accumulate on any privately owned lot or other
premises within the village of Angel Fire.
FACILITY: Real estate or building used for a particular function.
GARBAGE: Unwanted or unusable waste products or unused materials to include,
but not be limited to, food, offal, ashes, wastepaper, trash, rubbish, and
waste or unwholesome materials generated during the consumption of resources.
GOVERNING BODY: The governing body of the village of Angel Fire.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste which, because of its concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics, may pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed, other than household
hazardous waste.
HOT WASTE: Any waste that is on fire or smoldering.
MIXED NONRESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Any combination of nonresidential solid
waste.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL: Residential apartment or condominium dwelling units.
NONRESIDENTIAL RECYCLABLES: Recyclables generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, hotels or motels, warehouses, and other manufacturing and
nonmanufacturing activities.
NONRESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: All types of solid waste generated by, but not
limited to, stores, offices, restaurants, hotels or motels, warehouses, and
other manufacturing and nonmanufacturing activities, excluding household and
hazardous solid wastes.
PERSON: Individual, corporation or other legal entity that is responsible for
or owns a dwelling, hotel unit or commercial facility against which refuse
rates are applied.
PROCESSING: Techniques to change the physical, chemical or biological character
or components of solid waste, other than composting.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Items which can be reused or reprocessed for reuse. Such
items may include, but are not limited to, corrugated cardboard, paper,
aluminum, steel, metals, glass, wood, plastic, and cloth.
RECYCLING: Any process by which recyclable materials are collected, separated
and processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or
products.
REFUSE: See definition of Solid Waste.
REFUSE RATE AND FEE SCHEDULE: The listing of fees and charges for solid waste
collection, transfer, transport and disposal services provided by the village.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Solid waste or garbage derived from households
including single and multiple residents, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew
quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day use recreation areas, but
excluding large items which include, but are not limited to, white goods,
demolition materials, etc.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling unit.
SCAVENGING: The removal of any solid waste or recyclables from a transfer
facility or from private or public containers in a manner not authorized by the
village.
SERVICE AREA: That area within the corporate limits of the village of Angel
Fire and any additional area beyond those limits within which the governing
body authorizes the collection of solid waste.
SLASH: Waste generated from the cleanup of forested areas or yard.
SOLID WASTE: Garbage, refuse, litter, yard waste, white goods, construction and
demolition debris and other discarded solid materials, including those from
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flow, nor hazardous, infectious, or radioactive
materials which the village is prohibited by law from accepting.
SOLID WASTE ENTERPRISE FUND: The fund created by the village of Angel Fire for
dealing with the revenues and expenses associated with the collection,
diversion, recycling, reduction, transfer, transport and disposal of solid
waste including, but not limited to, operations, capital improvements and debt
service.
SOLID WASTE FACILITY: Any real estate or structure or group of structures
designated to facilitate the collection, processing, treatment, handling,
transfer, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste.
TRANSFER FACILITY: A facility in which various types of solid waste are
received and then placed in other vehicles for transport to another solid waste
facility for disposal.
TRASH: See definition of Solid Waste.
USER: See definition of Customer.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, Colfax County, New Mexico.
WHITE GOODS: Large household appliances such as refrigerators, stoves, washing
machines, air conditioners, swamp coolers and the like that are received as
waste by the village.
YARD WASTE: Vegetative or organic matter resulting from landscaping, land
maintenance and land clearing operations. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001; amd. Ord.
2023-04, 5-23-2023)
4-3-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following actions with regard to solid waste are hereby prohibited.
   A.   Burning.
   B.   Dumping.
   C.   Placing solid waste in any container or areas other than those
specifically designated or approved by the village for collection or disposal.
   D.   Transporting solid waste to a solid waste facility without securing or
covering the load so as to prevent leakage, littering 1
   E.   Scavenging.
   F.   Depositing of hot waste into any container or enclosure designated for
refuse collection.
   G.   Presenting to the village for disposal infectious waste, hazardous
waste, flammable or explosive refuse, radioactive waste or other contaminated
materials which by law or regulation must be properly disposed of by a
specially licensed or equipped person, or which requires a solid waste facility
specifically authorized for this purpose.
   H.   Placing furniture, mattresses, large tree limbs, tires, engine parts,
white goods, or other large items at the curbside or in waste containers.
   I.   Disposing of bulk liquids. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-2C-12 of this code.1, blowing, or other form of loss while in transit.
4-3-5: COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The village and/or its duly authorized agents or employees shall
have the exclusive right within the service area to collect or gather solid
waste, with the exception of nonresidential recyclables, dead animals,
hazardous wastes or such materials which the village is prohibited by law from
collecting or disposing. No person or organization may sell within the service
area any services for the systematic and routine collection, transportation or
disposal of garbage, trash or refuse except for nonresidential recyclables,
dead animals, hazardous wastes and other such materials which the village is
prohibited by law from collecting or disposing.
      2.   The village and its duly authorized agents shall have the exclusive
right to collect or gather residential recyclables.
      3.   The village reserves the right at any time to refuse to collect or
receive waste if, in the judgment of the village, such collection is deemed to
be harmful, hazardous or in violation of village and state regulations
governing type of waste, weight or waste constituents. The village shall inform
the person responsible for such waste and shall require compliance with this
chapter.
   B.   Containers Generally:
      1.   Village Owned Containers: Containers are distributed at locations
designated by the village.
      2.   Containers Not Owned By Village:
         a.   The use of containers not owned by the village shall be approved
by the village prior to use.
         b.   Maintenance of containers not owned by the village shall be the
sole responsibility of the owner of the container.
      3.   Use: Customer shall keep all refuse within private premises until
the time when the customer places the solid waste in a village approved
container.
      4.   Types Of Collection Service: Collection from containers shall
include, but not be limited to, service to front loading, rear loading and roll
off containers and carts.
   C.   Roll Off Containers: The following provisions apply to roll off
containers:
      1.   Customer service requests shall include the size and type of
container to be used as well as the frequency of service. Request shall be made
in writing to the village.
      2.   The customer or customer's representative shall complete a written
request to the village for cancellation of service or to request long term or
permanent changes in service.
      3.   Requests for additional special services such as the placement of a
roll off may be made by phone to the village during normal business hours. The
village will make reasonable efforts to ensure placement is made within three
(3) working days of the request. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
   D.   Site And Enclosures: The specific site and enclosure for the placement
of any refuse container shall be consistent with the standards of the village.
The village shall not be responsible for damage to enclosures or containers
that are not designed or constructed in accordance with standards of the
village.
   E.   Access To Enclosures And Containers; Obstructions:
      1.   Enclosures and containers shall be kept free of any blockage or
obstruction.
      2.   Locked enclosure gates must be unlocked and opened by the customer
on the day designated for collection.
      3.   In the event a container or access to the container is blocked and
the container cannot be emptied on the same day as the originally scheduled
service, an additional fee shall be assessed if a subsequent service visit is
necessary.
      4.   During winter months, the area leading to the enclosure or container
on private property shall be kept clear of snow and ice at the customer's
expense.
   F.   Maintenance And Repair Of Containers:
      1.   Village Owned Containers: Village owned containers in need of
repairs due to normal wear and tear shall be repaired or replaced at the
village's discretion.
      2.   Privately Owned Enclosures And Containers:
         a.   Maintenance of the enclosure and privately owned containers shall
be the responsibility of the owner.
         b.   Privately owned containers shall be the sole responsibility of
the owner. Repairs of such containers shall be made within fifteen (15) days
upon customer being notified by the village of the needed repairs. In the event
that the needed repairs present endangerment to village employees or agents in
the collection of waste, the village may suspend service until the container is
repaired or replaced.
      3.   Failure To Repair: Service may be suspended for enclosures or
containers that are in a state of disrepair that may cause unsafe conditions
for the collection personnel.
   G.   Overfilling Containers:
      1.   Containers shall be loaded so as to allow the lid to close
completely.
      2.   The customer shall clean refuse spills around the container.
      3.   The village may require an increase in service frequency as a
condition of service where containers are routinely overfilled. (Ord. 2001-08,
7-27-2001)
4-3-6: TRANSFER AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Eligible Users Of Waste Transfer Facilities: Waste may be received at a
village transfer facility from the following sources:
      1.   Village refuse collection vehicles.
      2.   Personal passenger vehicles and light trucks and attached trailers
carrying mixed residential solid waste which originates within the boundaries
of responsibility for the village solid waste collection.
      3.   Commercial and other vehicles carrying mixed nonresidential solid
waste that originates within the boundaries of responsibility for the village
solid waste collection.
   B.   Conditions Of Service And Use Of Waste Transfer Facilities:
      1.   Wastes To Comply With Village And State Regulations:
         a.   The village shall not accept wastes that are not in compliance
with state and village regulations. This shall include, but not be limited to,
animal carcasses and other wastes needing immediate or witnessed disposal,
infectious, hazardous or radioactive materials, bulk liquids, hot waste,
flammable or explosive refuse and commercial or industrial vehicle tires.
         b.   Vehicles may be subject to inspection prior to entry into the
facilities to confirm that materials can be legally accepted for transfer and
transport by the village.
      2.   Days And Hours Of Service For Certain Goods: The village may
restrict the acceptance of certain goods to designated days and hours.
      3.   Fees For Certain Wastes: Persons delivering waste, other than
household solid waste or municipal solid waste, shall be subject to the
imposition of fees in accordance with the refuse rate and fee schedule.
      4.   Nonresidential Waste Delivered By Other Than Personal Vehicle:
Persons using other than personal vehicles for the delivery of nonresidential
solid waste may establish a service account with the village prior to use of
the facilities. The village may require security deposits and other financial
guaranties of fee payment as precondition to the establishment of an account.
      5.   Delinquent Account: The village shall prohibit use of the facilities
by those persons whose service account is delinquent for more than thirty (30)
days. Resumption of disposal shall occur upon payment in full of unpaid
balances including penalties and interest. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
4-3-7: WASTE DIVERSION AND RECYCLING:
   A.   Village Policy: The village shall promote the waste reduction and
diversion to the maximum extent possible. It shall implement diversion
practices where feasible including, but not limited to, the collection of
recyclable materials from residential and nonresidential sources, and safe
disposal of household hazardous waste.
   B.   Conditions Of Waste Reduction And Recycling:
      1.   List Of Recyclable Materials And Methods: A list of materials
recommended for recycling and recommended methods of recycling shall be
periodically updated by the village, and the list shall be broadly distributed.
      2.   Containers Identified: Containers for recyclable materials shall be
clearly identified and distinguishable from containers used for solid waste
collection.
      3.   Storage Of Recyclables: Storage of recyclable materials prior to
collection shall not create a nuisance or condition that may adversely affect
public health.
      4.   Composting: Back yard composting and related forms of organic waste
diversion or reduction shall be conducted in a manner that does not violate
state or village laws or regulations and does not create a nuisance or
condition which may adversely affect public health. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
4-3-8: RATE PAYER CLASSIFICATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Assessments And Fees Applicable To Property Owners And Registered
Businesses: There is assessed against every person owning any improved real
property or holding a business registration in the village monthly and other
special refuse collection and disposal fees payable to the village. (Ord. 2001-
08, 7-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Classification And Obligations Established: Classification and
obligations are described herein, and the following classifications for
municipal solid waste collection, transportation and disposal are hereby
established for customers within the village service area:
      1.   Residences: A solid waste fee shall be billed monthly to, and paid
monthly by, each person owning improved real property (residential).
      2.   Hotels: A solid waste fee per hotel unit shall be billed monthly to,
and paid monthly by, each person owning or controlling such hotel units. (Ord.
2001-08, 7-27-2001)
      3.   Commercial Businesses:
         a.   A monthly fee shall be billed monthly to, and paid monthly by,
each person occupying a commercial business which produces or could produce
solid waste, and/or those commercial businesses holding a business
registration. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   Customers who currently have or in the future make an application
for a commercial charge account will be billed an annual fee for the purpose of
partially defraying the costs of billing and collections.
      4.   Tires: A special tire disposal fee shall be billed to, and paid by,
each person or company disposing of tires unless tires are cut into quarters (4
equal pieces).
      5.   Use Of Transfer Facilities:
         a.   Any person using a personal passenger vehicle or light truck and
attached trailer may transport mixed residential solid waste to the village
transfer facility; provided, that such waste has been generated from a
residence located within the boundaries of responsibility for the village solid
waste collection, and further provided, that the disposer satisfies the
conditions of service defined in this chapter.
         b.   Any person using a commercial or other vehicle may transport
mixed nonresidential waste to the village transfer facility; provided, that
such waste has been generated within the boundaries of responsibility for the
village solid waste collection, that it is conveyed as required by this
chapter, and further provided, that the disposer satisfies the conditions of
service defined in this chapter. The fee for this service shall be based upon
the cubic yard volume of the material disposed.
         c.   All solid waste delivered to the village solid waste facility
must be secured by means of a tarp, rope or straps to prevent the scattering,
blowing, dropping, spillage or any other form of littering on any public right
of way. Any load brought to the facility that is not secured so as to prevent
any type of littering will be charged double the disposal fee. During the
village free disposal weeks, any unsecured load will be charged double the
normal fee for slash disposal.
   C.   Free Service: No village service related to solid waste shall be
provided without charge except as provided by this chapter, as approved by
council or through a court order or settlement. No amounts owed may be abated.
Village billings determined to be in error will be corrected.
   D.   Rental Properties: Owners in charge of rental property shall be
responsible for the payment of the charges assessed in this chapter, and such
properties shall be subject to the lien and other collection provisions of this
chapter. Delinquency notices will be sent to both the landlord and the renter.
(Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
   E.   Applicable Taxes Included With Bill: All applicable taxes will be
included in the monthly bill as allowed by the gross receipts and compensating
tax act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 7-9-4. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001;
amd. 2003 Code)
4-3-9: RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Deposits: Deposits may be required by the village and shall be paid by
the applicant for solid waste collection service at the time of application for
service, for the purpose of a guarantee of payment of accounts and damage.
   B.   Rates And Fees Established: All refuse services provided by the village
are subject to the refuse rate and fee schedule established by council
resolution.
   C.   Annual Rate Increase: Effective each year, on July 1, solid waste rates
shall be increased the amount indicated on the CPI report for the end of the
previous calendar year. The first CPI increase shall become effective July 1,
2001. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
   D.   Returned Check Fee: All returned checks will result in an additional
service charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001; amd.
2003 Code)
   E.   Disposition Of Revenues: For the purpose of defraying all expenses of
collection, diversion, recycling, reduction, transfer, transport and disposal
of refuse, the solid waste enterprise fund is established. The governing body
shall establish and periodically amend service rates and charges that recover
the full costs for each class of service rendered. The revenue received from
these rates shall be credited to the solid waste enterprise fund. Money from
this fund shall pay all direct, indirect and bond service expenses of the solid
waste management operation.
   F.   Payment Of Bills: All service fees and charges shall be payable in the
manner designated by the village. Payments are due within twenty (20) days
following each monthly billing or as the village may authorize. (Ord. 2001-08,
7-27-2001)
   G.   Delinquent Payments:
      1.   The village shall impose a monthly penalty assessment of one and
one-fourth percent (1.25%) on the twenty first day following each monthly
billing for those accounts that are not paid in full. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001;
amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Customers or licensed contractors whose refuse collection or
disposal account is delinquent shall not be awarded contracts or otherwise
authorized to do business with the village until the account is paid in full.
(Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
4-3-10: LIENS:
   A.   Notice Of Lien: The village shall send a thirty (30) day notice of
intent to file a lien containing the following information:
      1.   The name of the owner, if known, of the parcel of real estate being
assessed.
      2.   A description of the parcel of real estate being assessed.
      3.   The amount assessed against each parcel of real estate.
   B.   Appeals: Any persons aggrieved by the decision of the village may
submit written petition for appeal. Such petition for appeal shall:
      1.   Be submitted to the office of the finance director within thirty
(30) days of the date of lien notice.
      2.   Set forth that such proceedings or assessments were in error, in
whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the appeal. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-
2001)
4-3-11: SLASH PROGRAM:
Objective: The primary objective of the slash disposal program is to assist
Village property owners in their wildfire preparedness. The Village is
committed to becoming a Fire Adapted Community and taking action to mitigate
wildfire risks throughout the community before a wildfire occurs.
   A.   The slash program is for Angel Fire residents only. No slash will be
accepted from outside the village limits.
   B.   The program for slash pickup is active from April 1st (weather
dependent) until October 1st (weather dependent).
   C.   Alf persons thinning inside the Village of Angel Fire are required to
have a slash permit.
   D.   Any slash over four inches (4") in diameter must be de-limbed and cut
into lengths of no more than six foot (6') long. Also, any slash over five
inches (5") in diameter must be piled separately from the smaller slash for
pick up. No slash over six feet (6') in length or piled higher than eight feet
(8') will be picked up.
   E.   Slash for pickup should be placed where the driver can safely pick it
up. Spacing between piles should be no less than two feet (2'). Slash put out
for pickup should not be placed under or on top of exposed wires and not closer
than four feet (4') from water meters, fire hydrants, and/or cable, telephone,
broadband or electric pedestals. Piles should be a minimum of fifteen feet
(15') from any intersection. Slash piles must be placed in front of the Jot of
origin and cannot be placed in front of or on other properties not owned by the
person clearing the lot. No slash shall be placed in the road or drainage area.
   F.   Pine needles are not part of the slash program. Pine needles should be
brought into the transfer station where they will need to be disposed of for a
fee.
   G.   Stumps are NOT part of the slash program. Stumps should be brought into
the transfer station and a fee paid, no stumps over ten inches (10") in
diameter will be accepted at the transfer station.
   H.   Contaminated loads are anything that is brought into the Fire
Department that are not a part of the slash program including but not limited
to rocks, dirt, trash, etc. Contaminated loads will not be accepted as part of
the slash program. Contaminated loads brought into transfer station will be
charged for the full load not iust the contamination in the load.
   I.   Any material too small for the grapple to pick up will be the property
owner or his contractor's responsibility to clean up.
   J.   Any thinning before or after the beginning and shut off dates must be
kept inside the lot of origin. Alf thinning that is being called in for Village
pick up should be completed and called in before October 1st (weather
dependent) anything placed in the right of way after that will be considered a
violation.
   K.   Contaminated slash WILL NOT be picked up by the Village of Angel Fire.
   L.   All contractors doing slash removal or thinning in the village limits
are required to have a charge account with the Village of Angel Fire.
   M.   If a suitable location for slash placement cannot be determined by the
Fire Department, the slash must be transported by the property owner or a
private contractor to the Slash pit.
   N.   Slash pickup of slash resultant from property owners contracting for
slash removal, wildfire fuel reduction or other such thinning proiects will be
set by an annual policy originating with the Fire Chief and approved by the
Village Manager. The policy shall be published no later than March 1st of each
year. Amendments to the policy shall be published a minimum of forty-five (45)
days prior to implementation and enforcement.
   O.   Contractors transporting slash to the Fire Station 3 shall provide
proof of contract with the property owner which includes the location/address
of work performed.
   P.   Depending on the size of the pile and the condition of the land, on
site chipping may occur, with the slash pile. This will be discussed with the
property owner prior to any chipping taking place. (Ord. 2020-02, 7-28-2020;
amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-23-2023)
4-3-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time For Compliance; Citation: In the event of a
violation of this chapter or of any administrative order issued hereunder, the
village may serve upon the violator a written notice. Within fourteen (14) days
of receipt of this notice, the user shall provide to the village a written
response and a plan for specific corrective actions. If, at the end of the
fourteen (14) day period, the violation has not been corrected or a written
plan for corrective actions has not been submitted to the village, the village
may issue a citation. Such citation shall carry penalties equal to that of a
misdemeanor. Subsequent violations of a similar nature shall be subject to
citation without prior notice.
   B.   Additional Remedies: The village shall have such other remedies for
collection of fines and penalties as allowed by village ordinance or as may be
allowed by state statutes.
   C.   Judicial Enforcement Of Penalties:
      1.   Injunctive Relief: The village shall seek injunctive relief to the
extent allowed by law against persons who persist in violating this chapter or
orders issued by the village hereunder. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
      2.   Criminal Prosecution: Violation of this chapter is subject to
enforcement pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-17-1C(1) and as
may be otherwise allowed by law. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Appeals:
      1.   Appeals To Village Administrator:
         a.   Persons may appeal a notice of violation, fines or other
administrative actions, with the exclusion of liens 1 , of the village within
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice of violation or administrative
action. Appeals shall be addressed to the office of the village administrator
or his designee. They shall provide the following information:
            (1)   The factual basis for the appeal; or
            (2)   The legal basis for the appeal; and
            (3)   The desired or requested action or outcome.
         b.   Upon receipt of the request, the village shall review the
request. Within ten (10) days, the village shall inform the customer in writing
of the village's determination. The village shall either reaffirm the action or
issue a revised determination.
      2.   Appeals To Governing Body: Within fourteen (14) days of the
village's determination, the customer may submit to the governing body a
written appeal of the village's action. Such appeal shall be in writing and
addressed to the village administrator. The governing body shall hear the
appeal at its next regular meeting and shall render a decision within thirty
(30) calendar days. The decision of the governing body shall be final and
binding. (Ord. 2001-08, 7-27-2001)
 
Notes
1    See subsection
  4-3-10B of this chapter for lien appeal provisions.
CHAPTER 4
SNOW SKIERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Prohibited Acts
4-4-4: Collisions; Duties Of Skiers
4-4-5: Violation; Penalties
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SNOW SKIER RESPONSIBILITY ACT of the
village. (Ord. 1989-11, 12-7-1989)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall be construed
to have the following meanings:
INJURY: Any personal injury, death or property damage or loss suffered by a
skier.
PASSENGER: Any person riding or otherwise using a ski lift.
POLICE CHIEF: The village police chief, his agents or employees.
SKI AREA: The property owned, leased or under the control of a ski operator
within the village.
SKI AREA OPERATOR: Any persons, partnership, corporation or other commercial
entity and its agents, officers, employees or representatives which have
responsibility for any ski area or ski lift.
SKI LIFT: Any device operated by a ski area operator to transport passengers
from one point to another within a ski area.
SKI PATROL: That certain group of employees of the ski area operator designated
as the ski patrol.
SKIER/SNOWBOARDER: Any person utilizing a ski area for the purpose of skiing,
both alpine and Nordic, or any person who is within the boundaries of a ski
area for the purpose of observing any skiing activity. (Ord. 1989-11, 12-7-
1989; amd. 2003 Code)
4-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Reckless Skiing: No skier shall ski in a reckless or negligent manner
so as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person, his own or of
another. Each skier has the additional duty to ski in a safe and reasonable
manner and under sufficient control to be able to stop or avoid other skiers or
objects such as grooming equipment, vehicles, lift towers, signs and any other
equipment within the ski area.
   B.   Entering Closed Areas: No skier, except a member of the ski patrol,
police chief or ski area operator in the course of his employment, shall enter
or go upon any closed area.
   C.   Crossing Ski Area Boundary: No skier shall cross any ski area boundary.
   D.   Removing Or Destroying Closed Area Signs Or Other Designations: No
skier or other person, except a member of the ski patrol or employee of the ski
area operator or police chief, in the course of his employment, shall remove,
tear down, mutilate, deface, damage or destroy any sign or other closed area
designator erected by the ski patrol, ski area operator or police chief to
designate a closed area. (Ord. 1989-11, 12-7-1989)
4-4-4: COLLISIONS; DUTIES OF SKIERS:
Any skier involved in a collision with another skier or person in which an
injury results shall immediately do the following:
   A.   Stop at the scene of such collision and render to any skier or person
injured in such collision reasonable assistance;
   B.   Notify or cause to be notified a member of the ski patrol about the
collision and injury;
   C.   Remain at the scene of the collision with the injured skier or person
until a member of the ski patrol arrives; and
   D.   Give his name and current address to a member of the ski patrol before
leaving the scene of the collision. (Ord. 1989-11, 12-7-1989)
4-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 1989-11, 12-7-1989; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CLEAN INDOOR AIR
SECTION:
4-5-1: Short Title
4-5-2: Purpose
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Smoking Prohibited
4-5-5: Smoking Permitted Areas
4-5-6: Prohibition Of Smoking Near Entrances, Windows And Ventilation Systems
4-5-7: Responsibilities Of Employers
4-5-8: Posted Smoke Free And Smoking Permitted Areas
4-5-9: Enforcement
4-5-10: Violations
4-5-11: Penalties
4-5-12: Nonretaliation; Nonwaiver
4-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the VILLAGE OF ANGEL FIRE CLEAN INDOOR AIR
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-2: PURPOSE:
Whereas one of the duties of government is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of its citizens, the village of Angel Fire's governing body
recognizes environmental tobacco smoke as detrimental to the public health and
declares as the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health and safety
by prohibiting smoking in indoor public places and indoor workplaces. (Ord.
2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the selling or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by patrons on the premises and in which the serving
of food is only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including
taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and cabarets.
CIGAR BAR: An establishment that:
A. Is a "bar" as defined in this section; and
B. Is engaged in the business of selling cigars for consumption by patrons on
the premises and generates ten percent (10%) or more of its total annual gross
revenue or at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in annual sales from the
sale of cigars, not including any sales from vending machines. A cigar bar that
fails to generate at least ten percent (10%) of its total annual sales from the
sale of cigars in the calendar year after December 31, 2006, not including
sales from vending machines, shall not be defined as a cigar bar and shall not
thereafter be known as such regardless of sales figures. A cigar bar shall
agree to provide adequate information to demonstrate to the village of Angel
Fire's satisfaction compliance with this definition.
DEPARTMENT: The department of health.
DESIGNATED OUTDOOR SMOKING AREA: An area where smoking may be permitted,
designated by an employer or manager, outside an indoor workplace or indoor
public place; provided that the following conditions are maintained:
A. Smoking shall not be permitted near any building entrance, including a door,
window or ventilation system of any facility where smoking is prohibited under
the provisions of this chapter, so as to prevent secondhand smoke from entering
the indoor workplace or indoor public place; and
B. Employees or members of the general public are not required to walk through
the smoking area to gain entrance to the indoor workplace or indoor public
place.
EMPLOYER: An individual, a partnership, a corporation or the state that employs
the services of one or more individuals and includes the village of Angel Fire.
ENCLOSED: Any interior space predominantly or totally bounded on all sides and
above by physical barriers, regardless of whether such barriers consist of or
include uncovered openings, screened or otherwise partially covered openings or
open or closed windows.
INDOOR PUBLIC PLACE: The enclosed area within any governmental or
nongovernmental place to which the public is invited or in which the public is
permitted regardless of whether work or public business, meetings or hearings
occur at any given time.
INDOOR WORKPLACE: Any enclosed place where one or more persons engage in work,
including lobbies, reception areas, offices, conference and meeting rooms,
employee cafeterias and lunchrooms, break rooms and employee lounges,
classrooms, auditoriums, hallways, stairways, waiting areas, elevators and
restrooms and includes all indoor workplaces and enclosed parts regardless of
whether work occurs at any given time.
PRIVATE CLUB: An organization, whether incorporated or not, that is the owner,
lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for the
organization's purposes at all times, that is operated solely for recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purposes, but
not for pecuniary gain, and that only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The organization shall have bylaws or a constitution to govern
its activities and shall have been granted an exemption as a club under the
provisions of section 501 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
RESTAURANT: A coffee shop, cafeteria, private or public school cafeteria or
eating establishment and any other eating establishment that gives or offers
for sale food to the public, patrons or employees, including kitchens and
catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises for serving
elsewhere or a bar area within or attached to the premises.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail store used primarily for the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental, including smoke shops, cigar shops or hookah lounges, and does not
include establishments that offer for sale alcoholic beverages for consumption
by patrons on the premises.
SECONDHAND SMOKE: Smoke emitted from lighted, smoldering or burning tobacco
when the smoker is not inhaling, smoke emitted at the mouthpiece during puff
drawing and smoke exhaled by the smoker.
SMOKE FREE AREA: Any building or other enclosed space where smoking is
prohibited.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or holding any lighted tobacco
product, including all types of cigarettes, cigars and pipes and any other
lighted tobacco product.
SMOKING PERMITTED AREA: Any building or other enclosed space where smoking may
be permitted; provided that secondhand smoke does not infiltrate any area where
smoking is prohibited pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to smoke in any indoor workplace or indoor
public place or in buses, taxicabs or other means of public transit not
specifically exempted pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-5: SMOKING PERMITTED AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking permitted areas
include the following:
   A.   A private residence, except during hours of business operation while it
is being used commercially to provide childcare, adult care or healthcare or
any combination of those activities;
   B.   A retail tobacco store;
   C.   A cigar bar;
   D.   The facilities of a tobacco manufacturing company licensed by the
United States to manufacture tobacco products that are operated by the company
in its own name and that are used exclusively by the company in its business of
manufacturing, marketing or distributing its tobacco products; provided that
smoke does not infiltrate other indoor workplaces or other indoor public places
where smoking is otherwise prohibited under this chapter;
   E.   A state licensed gaming facility, casino or bingo parlor;
   F.   An indoor workplace to the extent that tobacco smoking is an integral
part of a smoking cessation program that is approved by the department or of
medical or scientific research that is conducted in the indoor workplace and in
which each room of the indoor workplace in which tobacco smoking is permitted
complies with signage requirements;
   G.   Designated outdoor smoking areas;
   H.   Private clubs;
   I.   A limousine under private hire;
   J.   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking permitted rooms; provided that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
   K.   Enclosed areas within restaurants, bars, hotel and motel conference or
meeting rooms while these places are being used for private functions; provided
that none of these areas are open to the general public while the private
functions are occurring and provided that smoke does not infiltrate other
indoor workplaces or indoor public places where smoking is otherwise prohibited
under this chapter;
   L.   A site that is being used in connection with the practice of cultural
or ceremonial activities by Native Americans and that is in accordance with the
federal American Indian religious freedom act, 42 USC 1996 and 1996a;
   M.   A business of a sole proprietor or a business with fewer than two (2)
employees that is not commonly accessible to the public; provided that:
      1.   The business is not a restaurant or bar;
      2.   The employer or manager of such business shall provide a smoke free
work environment for each employee requesting a smoke free work environment;
and
      3.   Cigarette smoke does not infiltrate other smoke free work
environments as provided for in this chapter; and
   N.   A theatrical stage or a motion picture or television production set
when it is necessary for performers to smoke as part of the production. (Ord.
2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-6: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING NEAR ENTRANCES, WINDOWS AND VENTILATION SYSTEMS:
Smoking is prohibited near entrances, windows and ventilation systems of all
workplaces and public places where smoking is prohibited by this chapter. An
individual who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls the use of any
premises subject to the provisions of this chapter shall establish a smoke free
area that extends a reasonable distance from any entrances, windows and
ventilation systems to any enclosed areas where smoking is prohibited. The
reasonable distance shall be a distance sufficient to ensure that persons
entering or leaving the building or facility shall not be subjected to
breathing tobacco smoke and to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the
building or facility through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or any
other means. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF EMPLOYERS:
   A.   Employers shall provide that their places of employment meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   An employer shall adopt, implement, post and maintain a written smoking
policy pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-8: POSTED SMOKE FREE AND SMOKING PERMITTED AREAS:
   A.   To advise persons of the existence of smoke free areas or smoking
permitted areas, signs shall be posted as follows:
      1.   For each indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is
prohibited pursuant to this chapter, a "no smoking" sign shall be posted where
it is clear, conspicuous and easily legible at each public entrance. Posting of
"no smoking" signs is the responsibility of the owner, operator, manager or
other person having control of the indoor workplace or indoor public place; and
      2.   For each indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is
permitted pursuant to this chapter, a "smoking permitted" sign shall be posted
where it is clear, conspicuous and easily legible at each public entrance,
unless an owner, operator or manager chooses to prohibit smoking in all or part
of an indoor workplace or indoor public place where smoking is otherwise
permitted.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to require the posting
of signs at a residence, except during the hours of business operation while it
is being used commercially to provide childcare, adult care or healthcare or
any combination of those activities. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter may be by citation from the fire
department, police department or code enforcement officers.
   B.   A person may register a complaint regarding an alleged violation
pursuant to this chapter to initiate enforcement with the fire or police
department.
   C.   The designated enforcement agencies may inspect an establishment for
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-10: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for a person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls
the use of premises subject to regulation under this chapter to violate its
provisions. The owner, manager or operator of premises subject to regulation
shall not be subject to a penalty if a person on the premises is in violation
of this chapter as long as the owner, manager or operator has posted signs,
implemented the appropriate policy and informed the person that the person is
in violation. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-11: PENALTIES:
A person eighteen (18) years of age or older who violates a provision of this
chapter is subject to:
   A.   A fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
violation;
   B.   A fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation within any consecutive twelve (12) month period of the first
violation; and
   C.   A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and
each subsequent violation within any consecutive twelve (12) month period of a
previous violation. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
4-5-12: NONRETALIATION; NONWAIVER:
   A.   A person or employer shall not discharge, refuse to hire or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or patron
because that employee, applicant or patron exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   B.   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party. (Ord. 2007-05, 8-14-2007)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Police Officers
5-1-4: Oath Of Office
5-1-5: Department Rules And Regulations
5-1-6: Uniforms
5-1-7: Duty Of Citizens To Aid Police
5-1-8: Reserve Police
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is created a police department for the village which shall consist of one
chief of police and as many police officers as may from time to time be deemed
necessary for the safety and good order of the village. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-
1988)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications; Powers And Duties: The chief of police
shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the village council, shall
be a certified police officer in the state and shall:
      1.   Execute and return all writs and processes as directed by the
municipal judge;
      2.   Be deputized as a special deputy by the Colfax County sheriff;
      3.   Serve criminal writs and processes in any part of the county wherein
the village is situated;
      4.   Within the community, suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches
of the peace, apprehend all disorderly persons, pursue and arrest any person
fleeing from justice and apprehend any person in violation of the laws of the
state or the ordinances of the village and bring him before competent authority
for examination and trial; and
      5.   Render such amounts of the police department, his duties, department
operations and receipts as may be required by the council and keep records of
the department and his office open to public inspection at all times.
   B.   Oath and Bond: Before entering upon the duties of such office, the
chief of police shall take and subscribe to an oath that he will support the
constitution of the state, constitution of the United States and ordinances of
the village, and that he will faithfully perform the duties of the office upon
which he is about to enter. He shall furnish a surety bond in a principal sum
to be fixed and conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of his
office, or a surety bond covering all officers of the department may be
secured. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   All commissioned officers of the police department shall:
      1.   Perform all duties as required by law;
      2.   Suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace,
apprehend all disorderly persons in the community and pursue and arrest any
person fleeing from justice in any part of the state; and
      3.   Be the enforcement officers of the community and see that the
provisions of this code, village ordinances and the laws of the state are
complied with.
   B.   Police officers shall arrest, without process, all persons engaged in
the violation in their presence of any provision of this code or the laws of
the state. Upon such arrest, they shall forthwith convey such offenders before
the proper officer to be dealt with according to law; provided, that they may
incarcerate any person whom they shall arrest at a late and unusual hour of the
night until the following morning, and provided further, that in the special
cases relating to traffic offenses, they may release an arrested person upon
his written promise to appear in court.
   C.   Police officers shall:
      1.   Report such offenses as may come to their knowledge to the proper
village official or they shall report the same to the municipal judge, securing
a warrant for the arrest of offenders as shall be directed;
      2.   Execute and return all writs and processes to them directed by the
municipal judge in any case arising under a village ordinance and may serve the
same in any part of the county; and
      3.   Shall observe the condition of the streets, sidewalks and alleys of
the village and of any obstruction, nuisance or impediments therein and shall
take necessary measures to remove or abate the same. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
   D.   The police department may be required to control the flow of traffic in
time of an emergency or different times of the year that the village has
seasonal or special events. The location and patterns of traffic flow are to be
determined by the chief of police with concurrence by the mayor. (Ord. 2003-04,
2-24-2003, eff. 2-29-2003)
5-1-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, each police officer shall take
and subscribe an oath that he will support the constitution and laws of the
state, the constitution of the United States and the ordinances of the village,
and that he will faithfully perform the duties of the office upon which he is
about to enter. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
5-1-5: DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may be adopted by the village council.
(Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
5-1-6: UNIFORMS:
Every police officer shall wear, at all times while on duty, a uniform of the
type and quality prescribed by the council. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
5-1-7: DUTY OF CITIZENS TO AID POLICE:
It shall be the duty of all persons, when called upon by any police officer, to
promptly aid and assist such officer in the discharge of his duties. (Ord.
1988-10, 11-3-1988)
5-1-8: RESERVE POLICE:
The mayor may, upon an emergency, riot, pestilence, invasion or at any time he
shall deem it necessary for the peace, good order or health of the village,
order the chief of police to appoint reserve police officers for a specified
time, not exceeding two (2) days, with the approval of the council. He may
also, with the approval of a majority of the village council, order the chief
of police to appoint such number of reserve police officers, as may be agreed
upon by the council, to serve upon days of election, public celebration and
holidays, and said reserve police shall have and possess all the powers and
privileges of regular police officers during the time for which they may be
appointed. (Ord. 1988-10, 11-3-1988)
CHAPTER 2
CRIMINAL CODE
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Short Title
5-2A-2: Jurisdiction
5-2A-3: Definitions
5-2A-4: Reasonable Detention For Assault, Battery, Public Affray Or Criminal
Damage To Property
5-2A-5: Violation; Penalties; Limitations Of Actions
5-2A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CRIMINAL CODE OF ANGEL FIRE. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-
22-1992)
5-2A-2: JURISDICTION:
This chapter applies to offenses committed within the village limits as those
limits may from time to time be established. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2A-3: DEFINITIONS:
When not inconsistent with the context hereof:
   A.   Words in the plural number include the singular number and vice versa.
   B.   The masculine includes the feminine and neuter.
ANYTHING OF VALUE: Any conceivable thing of slightest value, tangible or
intangible, moveable or immoveable, corporeal or incorporeal, public or
private. The term is not necessarily synonymous with the traditional legal term
"property".
BAILIFF: Includes any employee of the municipal court of the village of Angel
Fire who is designated by the municipal judge as bailiff.
COURT: The municipal court of the village of Angel Fire.
DRUG: Any chemical substance or compound, either natural or synthetic, having
psychological and/or mind altering effects on its user including, but not
limited to, intoxicating liquor, narcotic drug, depressant drug, hallucinogenic
drug, stimulant drug, and fumes of paint or glue.
FIREFIGHTER: Any person who is so designated by the chief of the Angel Fire
fire department or his designated representative.
MAYOR: The mayor or his designated representative.
PEACE OFFICER: Includes police officers and any other public official vested by
law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for crimes, whether
that duty extends to all crimes or is limited to specific crimes.
PERSON: Includes, but is not limited to, any natural person whether over or
under twenty one (21) years of age, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
POSSESS: Any manner of custody, control, dominion or ownership, no matter how
initiated.
PROBATION OFFICER: Includes any employee of the municipal court who is
designated by the judge as a probation officer.
PUBLIC PLACE: Includes, but is not limited to, public dance halls, poolrooms,
bars, saloons, bowling alleys, restaurants, commercial establishments
patronized by the public, village public schools, county, state, or federal
property, streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys, and parking lots.
SHALL: Is mandatory and not merely directory.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire.
VILLAGE PARK: A park owned by the village which is normally less than five (5)
acres in area and which has been designated by resolution. Such park shall be
posted by the mayor or his representative as a park in which drinking alcoholic
beverages is prohibited. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2A-4: REASONABLE DETENTION FOR ASSAULT, BATTERY, PUBLIC AFFRAY OR CRIMINAL
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    LICENSED PREMISES: All public and private rooms, facilities and areas in
which alcoholic beverages are sold or served in the customary operating
procedures of establishments licensed to sell or serve alcoholic liquors.
   OPERATOR: The owner or the manager of any establishment or premises open to
the public.
   PROPRIETOR: The owner of the licensed premises or his manager or his
designated representative. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
   B.   Authority To Arrest: Any law enforcement officer may arrest without a
warrant any persons he has probable cause for believing have committed the
crime of "assault" or "battery", as defined in section
5-2B-1 of this chapter, or "public affray", as defined in section
5-2B-5 of this chapter, or "criminal damage to property", as defined in section
5-2C-1 of this chapter.
   C.   Nonliability Of Proprietor Or Operator: Any proprietor or operator who
causes such an arrest shall not be criminally or civilly liable if he has
actual knowledge, communicated truthfully and in good faith to the law
enforcement officer, that the persons so arrested have committed the crime of
"assault" or "battery", as defined in section
5-2B-1 of this chapter, or "public affray", as defined in section
5-2B-5 of this chapter, or "criminal damage to property", as defined in section
5-2C-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
5-2A-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES; LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS:
   A.   Violation; Penalties: It shall be unlawful to commit any of the acts
set forth in articles B, C, D and E of this chapter. Unless specifically
otherwise provided in this chapter, any person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a petty misdemeanor and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Limitations Of Actions: All prosecutions for the alleged violations of
any provisions of this chapter shall be commenced within one year after the
alleged violation and shall be barred thereafter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992;
amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES RELATING TO PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Assault And Battery
5-2B-2: Criminal Trespass
5-2B-3: Unreasonable Noise
5-2B-4: Disorderly Conduct
5-2B-5: Public Affray
5-2B-6: Unlawful Assembly
5-2B-7: Obstructing Movement
5-2B-8: Removal Of Barricades
5-2B-9: Weapons
5-2B-10: Propulsion Of Missiles
5-2B-11: Unlawful Hunting
5-2B-12: Fireworks And Explosives
5-2B-13: Unauthorized Presence On School Premises
5-2B-14: False Alarms And Reports
5-2B-15: Concealing Identity
5-2B-16: Offenses Relating To Officers
5-2B-17: Abuse Of Or Interference With Police Animals
5-2B-18: Unauthorized Use Of Police Or Fire Vehicle Signs
5-2B-19: Escape From Jail Or Custody
5-2B-20: Window Peeping
5-2B-21: Prowling
5-2B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Assault: "Assault" consists of:
      1.   An attempt to commit a battery upon the person of another; or
      2.   An unlawful act, threat, or menacing conduct which causes another
person to reasonably believe that he is in danger of receiving an immediate
battery; or
      3.   The use of insulting language toward another impugning his honor,
delicacy or reputation, such as repeated insults, taunts, or challenges, in
which words are inherently intended to threaten bodily harm or property damage
and likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response.
   B.   Battery: "Battery" is the unlawful, intentional touching or application
of force to the person of another when done in a rude, insolent, or angry
manner. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-2: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
"Criminal trespass" consists of:
   A.   Unlawfully entering or remaining upon the land or property of another,
knowing that any consent to enter or remain has been denied or withdrawn by the
person in lawful possession of the premises; or
   B.   Knowingly remaining upon the land or property of another, after the
request or demand to leave the premises by the authorized representative of the
person lawfully in possession of the premises; or
   C.   Purposely entering or remaining in any motor vehicle without the
consent of the owner thereof. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-3: UNREASONABLE NOISE:
"Unreasonable noise" consists of creating any such unreasonably loud,
disturbing, or unnecessary noise of such character, intensity or duration as to
be detrimental to the repose, life, or health of others, including, but not
limited to, the following specific noises if created in violation of this
section:
   A.   Horns And Signal Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
of any automobile, motorcycle, truck or other vehicle on any street or public
place, except as a danger warning, which creates an unreasonable, loud or harsh
sound or which occurs for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time. This
is not to include noise caused by accident or mechanical, electrical or other
difficulty or failure.
   B.   Radios And Phonographs: The playing of any radio, television,
phonograph, stereo, tapedeck, CD player, musical instrument, or other sound
producing device in such a manner or with such an unreasonable volume as to
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, motel, hotel,
hospital or sanitarium.
   C.   Noisy Vehicles: The use of any automobile, truck, bus, or motorcycle so
out of repair or so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
   D.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers Used For Advertising: The use of any
loudspeaker, drum, whistle, bell, or other instrument or device for the purpose
of attracting attention by the creation of sound to any performance, show,
sale, display of merchandise or political candidate, party or platform without
first obtaining a written permit from the village. The mayor or his designated
representative shall issue such permit, subject only to such reasonable
standards of noise volume and hours of operation as he or his representative
may adopt.
   E.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any hospital, school, institution of learning,
church, or court which interferes with the workings of such institution or
which disrupts or annoys occupants of said building. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct if he intentionally, knowingly, or
recklessly:
   A.   Engages in any public place any violent, abusive, or indecent conduct
which creates a clear and present danger of violence; or
   B.   Initiates communications with a person, anonymously or otherwise by
telephone, in a manner intended to annoy, harass or threaten bodily harm or
property damage, or makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal by
telephone which is obscene. Any offense by use of a telephone as set forth in
this section shall be deemed to have been committed at either the place where
the telephone call originated or at the place where the telephone call was
received; or
   C.   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly, with
no purpose of legitimate conversation, whether or not conversation ensues; or
   D.   Maliciously disturbs, threatens, or in an insolent manner,
intentionally touches any house or vehicle occupied by any person; or
   E.   Incites, causes, aids, abets, or assists in creating, any riot, affray,
or disturbance at or within any dwelling or building, whether public or
private, or at any other public place in the village; or
   F.   Uses in any public place fighting words, which by their very utterance
are likely to provoke a violent reaction in an average person to whom such
words are addressed; or
   G.   Maliciously disturbs, or threatens or, in an insolent manner,
intentionally touches or applies force to any person in a building or grounds
of any public or private school, preschool, primary or secondary school or
college; or
   H.   Urinates or defecates in public view on any public place or any private
property without the consent of the person lawfully in possession of the
property; or
   I.   Makes a coarse or obviously offensive utterance, gesture, or display in
a public place; or
   J.   Follows a person in or about a public place with intent to harass or
annoy; or
   K.   Engages in conduct or repeatedly commits acts that alarm or seriously
annoy another person and that serve no legitimate purpose. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-
1992)
5-2B-5: PUBLIC AFFRAY:
"Public affray" consists of two (2) or more persons voluntarily or by agreement
engaging in any fighting or using any blows or violence towards each other in
an angry or quarrelsome manner in any public place, to the disturbance of
others. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
5-2B-6: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
"Unlawful assembly" consists of gathering together or assemblage of three (3)
or more persons for a common purpose which either:
   A.   Creates a clear and present danger or an immediate threat of
substantial harm to persons and/or property. When an "unlawful assembly"
occurs, as defined in this section, an order to disperse shall be given by a
police officer in such a manner as can reasonably be expected to give actual
notice of said order to persons either directly or indirectly involved in such
unlawful assembly. Refusal to obey an order to disperse within such time as is
reasonably required for such assemblage to physically disperse after such order
is given or wilful and open resistance to said order shall constitute a
violation of this chapter; or
   B.   Manifests a common intent to do any unlawful act by force or violence
against the person and/or property of another. Participation in an unlawful
assembly to further such unlawful purpose shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-7: OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENT:
"Obstructing movement" consists of:
   A.   Hindering, annoying, or molesting any person's passage along any
street, sidewalk, or other public way; or
   B.   Loitering, sitting, or standing around at the public entrance of any
church, public hall, theater, public building, or other place of public
assemblage in any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-8: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
"Removal of barricades" consists of knowingly or wilfully removing, destroying
or interfering with any barrier, guard or light placed before or at any
dangerous place in or near the streets, sidewalks, or ways of the village for
the purpose of warning or protecting travelers from injury or damage; provided,
that removal after the danger has ceased and temporary removal to allow the
passage of a vehicle with immediate subsequent replacement shall not be
considered unlawful. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-9: WEAPONS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless context otherwise
requires, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this subsection:
    BLACKJACK: Includes any billy, sand club, sandbag, or other hand operated
striking weapon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased piece of lead or
other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or springy shaft which
increases the force of impact.
   BOMB: Any explosive or incendiary device or Molotov cocktail which is not
specifically designed for lawful and legitimate use in the hands of its
possessor.
   FIREARMS SILENCER: Any instrument, attachment, weapon or appliance causing
the firing of any gun, revolver, pistol, or other firearm to be silent or
intended to lessen or muffle the noise of the firing of any such weapon.
   GAS GUN: A device designed for projecting gas filled projectiles which
release their contents after having been projected from the device and includes
projectiles designed for use in such a device.
   GRAVITY KNIFE: Any knife that has a blade released from the handle or sheath
thereof by the force of gravity or by the application of centrifugal force
that, when released, is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever, or
other device.
   KNIFE: Any dagger, dirk, knife, or stiletto with a blade over three and one-
half inches (31/2") in length, or any other dangerous instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds, but does not include a hunting
or fishing knife carried for sports use. The issue that a knife is a hunting or
fishing knife must be raised as an affirmative defense.
   MACHINE GUN: Any firearm, whatever its size and usual designation, that
shoots automatically more than one shot, without manual reloading, by a single
function of the trigger.
   SHORT RIFLE: A rifle having a barrel less than sixteen inches (16") long or
an overall length less than twenty six inches (26").
   SHORT SHOTGUN: A shotgun having a barrel less than eighteen inches (18")
long or an overall length of less than twenty six inches (26").
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE: Any knife, the blade of which opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring, or other device in its handle.
   B.   Carrying Deadly Weapons:
      1.   Prohibition; Exceptions: Unlawfully carrying a deadly weapon
concealed in a manner making it not readily visible on or about the person or
in close proximity thereto, without legal authority, so that the weapon is
readily accessible for use is unlawful except:
         a.   In the person's residence or on real property belonging to him as
an owner, lessee, tenant or licensee; or
         b.   In a private automobile or other private means of conveyance for
the protection of his person or property, or the person or property of another;
or
         c.   By a peace officer in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
         d.   On a target range as authorized by law.
      2.   Definition: "Deadly weapon", as used in this subsection, means any
firearm, or any weapon which is capable of producing death or great bodily
harm, including, but not restricted to, any type of dagger, metallic knuckles,
switchblade, poniard, dirk knife, sword cane, sharp pointed cane or rod,
slingshot, bludgeon, num chucks, straight edge razor, gravity knife, blackjack,
bomb, firearm silencer, gas gun, machine gun, short shotgun, or slapper.
      3.   Unloaded Firearms: Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
prevent the carrying of any unloaded firearm.
   C.   Negligent Use Of A Weapon: "Negligent use of a weapon" consists of:
      1.   Discharging a weapon within the village limits without legal
justification; or
      2.   Carrying or having within one's reach or immediate grasp, a deadly
weapon while under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or drug; or
      3.   Endangering the safety of another or his property by handling or
using a firearm or other deadly weapon in a negligent manner; or
      4.   Selling, loaning, or furnishing any deadly weapon to a person with
knowledge that the person is under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or
drug, or that the person is incompetent.
   D.   Unlawful Possession, Transfer Or Sale Of Weapons:
      1.   Unlawful Possession Or Transfer Of Weapons: "Unlawful possession or
transfer of weapons" consists of possessing, selling, lending, giving away, or
purchasing any form of metallic knuckles, any form of blackjack, or knife which
opens automatically by hand pressure to a button, spring, or other device, or
gravity knife.
      2.   Unlawful Sale Of Deadly Weapons: "Unlawful sale of a deadly weapon"
consists of giving, selling, bartering, or exchanging for anything of value any
deadly weapon or ammunition for any firearm to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent any parent or guardian from purchasing such weapon or
ammunition for his child or ward. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-10: PROPULSION OF MISSILES:
"Propulsion of missiles" consists of shooting, slinging, or throwing stones,
rocks, pellets, BB shot, or any kind of missile, object or substance whatsoever
in any manner as to be reasonably likely to cause injury to any person or
property. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit target firing when
conducted so as to secure safety of inhabitants of the village. Target firing
may be permitted when conducted on ranges meeting the specifications of the
national rifle association or its equivalent upon submitting proof that such
range meets such specifications and upon obtaining a permit from the mayor or
his designated representative based upon such proof. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-11: UNLAWFUL HUNTING:
   A.   Hunting Prohibited: It is unlawful to hunt, take, capture, kill or
attempt to take, capture or kill, at any time or in any manner, any game animal
or game bird, as defined by the laws of the state, within the boundary limits
of the village as those limits may from time to time be established.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The provisions of this section do not apply to fishing as permitted
by the laws of the state.
      2.   The provisions of this section do not apply to hunting as allowed
and as limited in the designated "ski area" pursuant to section 5.5 and subject
to section 4.1.1 of the annexation and development agreement entered into
between the village and Angel Fire Resort, dated December 30, 1997, and
recorded in the records of Colfax County, book 9, pages 7993-8095.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1998-13, 12-17-1998)
5-2B-12: FIREWORKS 1
   A.   Definitions:
    FIREWORKS: 1. Means:
    a. Common Fireworks: Any fireworks devices suitable for use by the public
that comply with the construction, performance, composition and labeling
requirements promulgated by the United States consumer product safety
commission in title 16, CFR, and that is classified as a class C explosive by
the United States department of transportation.
   b.  Special Fireworks: Fireworks devices primarily intended for commercial
displays which are designed to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation including salutes containing more than
one hundred thirty milligrams (130 mg) (2 grains) of explosive composition,
aerial shells containing more than forty grams (40 g) of chemical composition
exclusive of the lift charge and other exhibition display items that exceed the
limits contained in the fireworks licensing and safety act (New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 60-2C-1 et seq., herein referred to as the "act") for common
fireworks.
   c. Aerial Device: A fireworks device that, upon ignition, propels itself or
an insert a significant distance into the air, but does not include a firework
that produces a shower of sparks.
   d. Ground Audible Device: A fireworks device intended to function on the
ground that produces an audible effect.
   e. Permissible Fireworks: Fireworks legal for sale and use in New Mexico
under the provisions of the fireworks licensing and safety act.
      2.   The term "fireworks" shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns, or other devices in which paper caps containing twenty five hundredths
(0.25) grain or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
use, and toy pistol paper caps which contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20)
grain of explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all
times.
   POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS: Consists of either selling, offering to sell,
owning, possessing, manufacturing, transporting, or discharging any
firecracker, Roman candle, sky rocket, torpedo, bomb, or any type of bomb, or
explosive commonly known as fireworks, unless such item has been declared by
the fire chief as a safe and sane device and not as dangerous to persons or
property.
   SAFE AND SANE DEVICES: As approved by the fire chief, shall be those devices
listed as approved for sale by the fire chief. Any device which propels any
potion, part, or projectile more ten feet (10') in the air or has a report
louder than the paper caps described herein are not considered safe and sane.
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Nothing contained herein shall be held to prevent such activities as
may be authorized by compliance with the provisions of title 8, chapter 2 of
this code.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be held to apply to or prohibit any
employee of the state game and fish department or the United States fish and
wildlife service from possessing fireworks for control of game birds and/or to
prohibit the village or any civic organization herein from sponsoring and
conducting, in connection with any public celebration, an official and
controlled fireworks display.
   C.   Sale, Use Or Possession Of Fireworks; Compliance With State Law:
Possession, use or sale of any fireworks is lawful only if such possession or
sale is in compliance with the licensing and permit provisions of the act, and
only if such fireworks are authorized herein and used in compliance with the
act. Any village certified law enforcement officer or the fire chief may
require persons to produce permits or licenses as required by the act and, if
not so produced, take action pursuant to subsection D2 of this section.
   D.   Aerial And Ground Audible Devices:
      1.   Prohibitions; Permit Requirements:
         a.   Pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-2C-7, the
possession or use of aerial devices or ground audible devices is prohibited;
provided, that public display of such is not prohibited, if a written permit is
obtained from the village administrator and fire chief, and the devices are
purchased from a distributor licensed by the state fire marshall and the bureau
of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms of the United States department of treasury.
         b.   No person shall sell, give away, offer for sale, exhibit for
sale, or possess any aerial device or ground audible device within the village
or within five thousand feet (5,000') of the village limits, unless such person
shall have a valid permit issued pursuant to subsection D1a of this section.
      2.   Seizure And Destruction Of Devices: The fire chief or any police
officer is authorized to seize such devices found within the village limits, or
within five thousand feet (5,000') thereof in violation of this section. The
fire chief or any police officer is authorized to destroy any devices so
obtained after complying with the following procedure:
         a.   After seizure of the fireworks, the fire chief or police chief
shall immediately notify the village administrator and shall arrange for a
secure storage facility for the fireworks.
         b.   The village administrator shall notify in writing (but if no
address is reasonably available, verbally) the person from whom the devices
have been seized and inform that person that a hearing will be held by the
village council at a regular or special meeting at which time the person shall
have the right to appear in person or by counsel for the purpose of showing
cause, if any, why the fireworks should not be destroyed.
         c.   The village council shall conduct said hearing and make a
decision as to whether or not the devices should be returned to the individual
or should be ordered destroyed. Provided, however, confiscated devices may be
destroyed immediately upon a written finding and determination by the fire
chief that the destruction is necessary to protect the public health, welfare,
and safety.
   E.   Fireworks Near Flammable Liquids: No fireworks shall be stored,
possessed, or used within three hundred feet (300') of gasoline or other
flammable liquids unless such liquids are sealed in metal containers of not
more than one gallon capacity.
   F.   Other Explosive Substances: No person shall ignite or explode any
flammable or explosive device or chemical composition or substance, including,
but not limited to, dynamite, railroad torpedoes, blasting powder, dynamite
caps, flashlight powder, signal lights, or gunpowder, except in the use of such
devices, compositions or substances for industrial, commercial, professional,
scientific, or other practical purposes and only as otherwise authorized by
law.
   G.   Civil Liability: Nothing in this section shall relieve any person from
any civil liability in connection with the storage, possession, sale, or use of
fireworks or other devices, compositions or substances referred to herein.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
   H.   Penalties: Any violation of this section shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 2 of this code.1 AND EXPLOSIVES:
5-2B-13: UNAUTHORIZED PRESENCE ON SCHOOL PREMISES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, except students, officers or employees
of the school or persons with lawful business on the premises, to knowingly
enter or remain in the buildings, yard, or parking lot of a public or private
school, preschool, primary or secondary school or college during regular school
hours if:
      1.   The person is in violation of posted school regulations; or
      2.   The person intends, as evidenced by some overt act, to disrupt or
interfere with the activities of students, officers, or employees on the
premises; or
      3.   The person has been denied permission to enter or remain on the
premises by the school administrator or his designated representative.
   B.   It shall be grounds for denial of permission if the person commits the
acts enumerated in subsections A1 and A2 of this section, is on the premises
without a justifiable school purpose, or has disrupted or interfered with
activities of students, officers, or employees at any school in the village in
the past. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-14: FALSE ALARMS AND REPORTS:
   A.   False Alarms: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly give a false
alarm of need for fire, ambulance or police assistance.
   B.   False Reports: It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make and
file with any law enforcement agency or employee of said agency, who is acting
in his official capacity, any false, misleading, or unfounded report or
statement knowing at the time it is made that said statement or report is
false, unfounded or misleading. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-15: CONCEALING IDENTITY:
It is unlawful for anyone to conceal one's true name or identity or disguise
oneself with the intent to obstruct due execution of the law or with intent to
intimidate, hinder, or interrupt any public officer, police officer, or any
other person in the legal performance of his or her duties. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-
22-1992)
5-2B-16: OFFENSES RELATING TO OFFICERS:
   A.   Impersonating A Uniformed Employee; Unauthorized Wearing Of Police
Uniform Or Badge:
      1.   "Impersonating a uniformed employee" consists of any person
pretending or falsely representing himself to be that employee or official with
intent to deceive another.
      2.   "Unauthorized wearing of uniform or badge" consists of the wearing,
without authorization by the police chief, a uniform, badge or insignia, whose
material, color, or design, or any combination of them, is such that the wearer
appears to be a member of the police department.
   B.   Resisting, Obstructing Or Refusing To Obey An Officer: "Resisting,
obstructing or refusing to obey an officer" consists of:
      1.   Knowingly obstructing, resisting, or opposing any officer of the
state or any other duly authorized person from serving or attempting to serve
or execute any process or any rule or order of any part of the courts of the
state or any other judicial writ or process; or
      2.   Resisting or abusing any judge, magistrate or peace officer in the
lawful discharge of his duties; or
      3.   Refusing to obey or comply with any lawful process or order given by
any police officer acting in the lawful discharge of his duties; or
      4.   Interfering with, obstructing or opposing any officer in the lawful
discharge of his regular and affixed duties. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-17: ABUSE OF OR INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE ANIMALS:
"Abuse or interference with investigation use of police department animals"
consists of either: (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
   A.   Wilfully or maliciously torturing, tormenting, beating, kicking,
striking, mutilating, injuring, disabling, or killing any animal used by any
peace officer in the performance of his functions or duties or of the functions
or duties of the police department; or (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Knowingly interfering with or meddling with any such animal, or the
equipment used on or by such animal; or
   C.   Knowingly engaging in conduct designed to agitate such animal. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-18: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF POLICE OR FIRE VEHICLE SIGNS:
"Unauthorized use of vehicle signs" consists of displaying on any vehicle,
whether moving or parked, the words "police", "police department", "Angel Fire
police department", "department of police", "fire department", "Angel Fire fire
department", or words or insignia of similar import without authority of the
mayor or his designated representative; provided, that nothing herein shall
apply to any state police, county sheriff, or county fire department vehicles.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-19: ESCAPE FROM JAIL OR CUSTODY:
   A.   Escape From Jail: "Escape from jail" consists of any person who shall
have been lawfully committed to the county jail, escaping or attempting to
escape from such jail or from a work detail to which such person is assigned.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Assisting Escape: "Assisting escape" consists of either:
      1.   Intentionally aiding any person confined or held in lawful custody
or confinement to escape; or
      2.   Any officer, jailer, or other employee intentionally permitting any
prisoner in his custody to escape. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-20: WINDOW PEEPING:
Entering upon any private property and looking into any occupied dwelling
without the consent of the occupant or owner of the dwelling is hereby declared
a public nuisance. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2B-21: PROWLING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, prowl, or snoop in a place, at
any time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant or cause alarm for the safety of persons or property
in the vicinity; and
   B.   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
such alarm is warranted are the fact that the actor takes flight or attempts to
evade or elude upon the appearance of a peace officer, refuses to identify
himself, or manifestly takes actions to conceal himself or any object; and
   C.   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstance makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to causing an arrest for an offense
under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or
concern which would otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify
himself and explain his presence and conduct; and
   D.   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the
peace officer did not comply with giving the person a reasonable opportunity to
dispel the alarm or concern, or if it appears at trial that the explanation
given for the action was true. (Ord. 2025-7, 6-10-2025)
ARTICLE C.  OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-2C-1: Criminal Damage To Property
5-2C-2: Arson And Negligent Arson
5-2C-3: Damaging Or Tampering With Vehicle
5-2C-4: Petty Larceny; Shoplifting
5-2C-5: Fraud
5-2C-6: Embezzlement
5-2C-7: Issuing Worthless Checks
5-2C-8: Theft Of Credit Card
5-2C-9: Falsely Obtaining Services Or Accommodations
5-2C-10: Receiving Stolen Property
5-2C-11: Public Nuisance
5-2C-12: Littering
5-2C-13: Use Of Engine Without Spark Arrestor
5-2C-1: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Criminal Damage To Private Property: "Criminal damage to private
property" consists of intentionally damaging to a value of less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) any real or personal property of another without
consent of the person lawfully in possession of the property.
   B.   Criminal Damage To Public Property: "Criminal damage to public
property" consists of intentionally damaging to a value of less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) any real or personal property of the village,
without the consent of the owner thereof. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2C-2: ARSON AND NEGLIGENT ARSON:
"Arson" consists of maliciously or wilfully starting a fire or causing an
explosion with the purpose of destroying or damaging any building, occupied
structure or property of another, or bridge, utility line, fence or sign; or
with the purpose of destroying or damaging any property, whether the person's
own or another's, to collect insurance for such loss. Whoever commits arson or
negligent arson when the value of the thing destroyed or damaged is two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) or less is guilty of a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-3: DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE:
   A.   Description: "Damaging or tampering with a motor vehicle" consists of
any person who shall individually or in association with one or more persons:
      1.   Purposely and without authority from the owner, start, or cause to
be started, the motor of any motor vehicle; or
      2.   Purposely and maliciously shall shift or change the starting device
or gears of a standing vehicle to a position other than that in which they were
left by the owner or driver of said motor vehicle; or
      3.   Purposely destroys any part of a motor vehicle or purposely cuts,
mashes, marks, or in any other way destroys or damages any part, attachment,
fastening, or appurtenance of the motor vehicle without the permission of the
owner thereof; or
      4.   Purposely scratches or damages the chassis, running gear, body,
sides, top covering or upholstery of a motor vehicle, the property of another;
or
      5.   Purposely drains or starts drainage of any radiator or oil tank or
gas tank upon a motor vehicle without permission of the owner thereof; or
      6.   Purposely puts any metallic or other substance or liquid in the
radiator, carburetor, oil tank, grease cup, oiler, lamps, gas tank, or
machinery of the motor vehicle with intent to damage the same or impede the
working machinery thereof; or
      7.   Maliciously tightens, disconnects, loosens, or removes any part on
any motor vehicle belonging to another; or
      8.   Purposely releases the brake upon a standing motor vehicle, with the
intent to damage said machine.
   B.   Violation: Whoever does damage of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less
to vehicles as proscribed in this section shall be guilty of a violation of
this chapter.
   C.   Exemptions: Nothing in this section shall apply to a police officer or
firefighter acting in the scope of his duties or to any other person acting at
the direction of said police officer or firefighter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2C-4: PETTY LARCENY; SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Definitions:
    MERCHANDISE: Chattels of any type or description of the value of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less offered for sale in or about the store.
   MERCHANT: Any owner or proprietor of any store or any agent, servant, or
employee of the owner or proprietor.
   STORE: A place where merchandise is sold or offered to the public for sale
at retail.
   B.   Petty Larceny: "Petty larceny" consists of the stealing of anything of
value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less which belongs to another.
   C.   Shoplifting: "Shoplifting" consists of any one or combination of the
following acts:
      1.   Wilfully taking possession of any merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it.
      2.   Wilfully concealing any merchandise with the intention of converting
it without paying for it.
      3.   Wilfully altering any label, price tag, or marking upon any
merchandise with the intention of depriving the merchant of all or some part of
value of it.
      4.   Wilfully transferring any merchandise from the container in or on
which it is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of all or some part of the value of it.
   D.   Presumption Created: Any person who wilfully conceals merchandise on
his person or on the person of another or among his belongings or the
belongings of another or on or outside the premises of the store shall be prima
facie presumed to have concealed the merchandise with the intention of
converting it without paying for it. If any merchandise is found concealed upon
any person or among his belongings, it shall be prima facie evidence of wilful
concealment.
   E.   Reasonable Detention; Arrests:
      1.   If any police officer, special officer, or merchant has probable
cause for believing that a person has wilfully taken possession of any
merchandise with the intention of converting it without paying for it, or has
wilfully concealed merchandise and that he can recover the merchandise by
detaining the person or taking him into custody, the police officer, special
officer, or merchant may, for the purpose of attempting to effect a recovery of
the merchandise, take a person into custody and detain him in a reasonable
manner for a reasonable time.
      2.   Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person he has
probable cause for believing has committed the crime of shoplifting. (Ord.
2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-5: FRAUD:
"Fraud" consists of the intentional misappropriation or taking of anything of
value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less which belongs to another
by means of fraudulent conduct, practices, or representations. (Ord. 2012-04,
8-28-2012)
5-2C-6: EMBEZZLEMENT:
"Embezzlement" consists of the embezzling or converting by a person to his own
use, anything of value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less, with
which he has been entrusted, with fraudulent intent to deprive the owner
thereof. (Ord. 2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-7: ISSUING WORTHLESS CHECKS:
"Issuing a worthless check" consists of issuing in exchange for anything of
value with intent to defraud any check, draft, or order for the payment of
money in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) or less drawn upon any bank
or other depository knowing at the time of the issuing that the offender has
insufficient funds, credit, or no account with the bank or other depository,
for the payment of such check, draft, or order in full upon its representation.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2C-8: THEFT OF CREDIT CARD:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ANYTHING OF VALUE: Includes money, goods, and services.
   CARDHOLDER: The person or organization identified on the face of a credit
card to whom or for whose benefit the credit card is issued by any issuer.
   CREDIT CARD: Any instrument or device whether known as a credit card, credit
plate, charge card, or by other name issued with or without fee by an issuer
for the use of the cardholder in obtaining money, goods, services, or anything
of value, either on credit or in consideration of an undertaking or guarantee
by the issuer of the payment of a check drawn by the cardholder.
   EXPIRED CREDIT CARD: A credit card which shows on its face that it is
outdated.
   INCOMPLETE CREDIT CARD: A credit card upon which a part of the matter, other
than the signature of the cardholder, which an issuer requires to appear on the
credit card before it can be used by a cardholder, has not been stamped,
embossed, imprinted, or written on.
   ISSUER: The business organization or financial institution or its duly
authorized agent which issues a credit card.
   MERCHANT: Every person who is authorized by an issuer or a participating
party to furnish money, goods, services, or anything of value upon presentation
of a credit card by the cardholder.
   PARTICIPATING PARTY: A business organization or financial institution other
than the issuer which acquires for value a sales slip or agreement.
   REVOKED CREDIT CARD: A credit card for which permission to use has been
suspended or terminated by the issuer and notice thereof has been given to the
cardholder.
   SALES SLIP OR AGREEMENT: Any writing evidencing a credit card transaction.
   B.   Committing Theft Of A Credit Card: Theft of a credit card is committed
when:
      1.   Any person other than the issuer receives or possesses a credit card
that he knows or has reason to know to have been stolen, lost, mislaid, or
delivered under a mistake as to the identity or address of the cardholder, and
who retains possession thereof with the intent to use it or sell it or to
transfer it to a person other than the issuer or cardholder; or
      2.   Any person receives money, goods, or services, or anything else of a
value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less obtained by another person
through the use of a credit card possessed in violation of this section, and
who knows or has reason to believe that it was so obtained.
   C.   Value Of Credit Cards; Prosecutions: For the purpose of this chapter,
every credit card, whether valid, expired, incomplete, or revoked, is presumed
to have value, and proof of said value is not necessary in any prosecution
hereunder. (Ord. 2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-9: FALSELY OBTAINING SERVICES OR ACCOMMODATIONS:
"Falsely obtaining services or accommodations" consists of any person obtaining
any service, petroleum product, food, entertainment or accommodations of a
value of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less without paying therefor,
and with intent to cheat the owner or person supplying such service, petroleum
product, food, entertainment or accommodations. (Ord. 2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-10: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions:
    DEALER: A person in the business of buying or selling goods or commercial
merchandise.
   RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY: The intentional receiving, retaining, or
disposing of stolen property knowing that it has been stolen, unless the
property is received, retained or disposed of with intent to restore it to the
rightful owner.
   B.   Requisite Knowledge: The requisite knowledge or belief that property
has been stolen is presumed in the case of an individual or dealer who:
      1.   Is found in possession or control of property stolen from two (2) or
more persons on separate occasions; or
      2.   Acquires stolen property for a consideration which the individual or
dealer knows is far below the property's reasonable value. A dealer shall be
presumed to know the fair market value of the property in which he deals.
   C.   Receiving Stolen Property Prohibited: Whoever receives stolen property
when the value of the property is two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or less
is guilty of violating this chapter. (Ord. 2012-04, 8-28-2012)
5-2C-11: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "public nuisance" consists of
knowingly creating, performing or maintaining anything affecting any number of
citizens without lawful authority which is either:
      1.   Injurious to public health, safety, morals or welfare; or
      2.   Interferes with the exercise and enjoyment of public rights,
including the right to use public property.
   B.   Public Nuisances Prohibited: Whoever commits a public nuisance for
which the act or penalty is not otherwise prescribed by law is guilty of a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2C-12: LITTERING:
   A.   Definitions:
    LITTERING: Consists of discarding refuse:
1. On public property in any manner other than by placing the refuse in a
receptacle provided for the purpose by the responsible authorities, or
otherwise in accordance with lawful direction; or
2. On private property not owned or lawfully occupied or controlled by the
person, except with consent of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof.
   REFUSE: 1. Any article or substance:
   a. Which is commonly discarded as waste; or
   b. Which, if discarded on the ground, will create or contribute to any
unsanitary, offensive or unsightly condition.
2. "Refuse" includes, but is not limited to, the following items or classes of
items: waste food; wastepaper and paper products; cans, bottles or other
containers; junked household furnishings and equipment; junked parts or bodies
of automobiles and other metallic junk or scrap; portions or carcasses of dead
animals; and collections of ashes, dirt, yard trimmings or other rubbish. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Littering Prohibited; Enforcement:
      1.   Whoever commits littering is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      2.   The use of uniform traffic citations is authorized for the
enforcement of this section. The court may, to the extent permitted by law, as
a condition to suspension of any penalty provided by law, require a person who
commits littering to pick up and remove from any public place or private
property, with prior permission of the legal owner, any litter deposited
thereon.
      3.   Any jail sentence imposed pursuant to subsection B1 of this section
may be suspended, in the discretion of the judge, upon conditions that the
offender assist in litter cleanup in the jurisdiction for a period not to
exceed the length of the suspended sentence. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2C-13: USE OF ENGINE WITHOUT SPARK ARRESTER:
   A.   Description: "Use of an engine without a spark arrester" consists of
using or operating any locomotive, logging engine, portable engine, traction
engine or stationary engine using any combustible fuel when such engine is not
provided with an adequate spark arrester kept in constant use and repair.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence: Escape of fire or live sparks from any engine
shall be prima facie evidence that such engine has not been adequately equipped
with a spark arrestor in compliance with this section. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-
1992)
ARTICLE D.  OFFENSES RELATING TO MORALS
SECTION:
5-2D-1: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-2D-2: Drinking Alcohol In Public
5-2D-3: Unlawful Possession Of Cannabis Products By A Minor Consists Of A
Person Under Age Twenty-One
5-2D-4: Possession, Delivery Or Manufacture Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited -
Exceptions
5-2D-5: Inhaling Volatile Solvents
5-2D-6: Sale Of Aerosol Spray Paint
5-2D-7: Prostitution
5-2D-8: Indecent Exposure
5-2D-9: Aiding Illegal Activity
5-2D-1: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BET: A bargain in which the parties agree that, dependent upon chance, even
though accompanied by some skill, one stands to win or lose anything of value
specified in the agreement; provided, that a "bet" shall not include bona fide
business transactions which are valid under the law of contracts, including,
without limitations:
      1.   Contracts for the purchase or sale, at a future date, of securities
or other commodities; and
      2.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of the
chance, including, without limitations, contracts for indemnity or guaranty and
life or health and accident insurance;
      3.   Offers of purses, prizes, or premiums to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the bona fide owners of animals or vehicles entered in such
contest;
      4.   A "lottery" as defined in this subsection; or
      5.   Betting otherwise permitted by law.
   GAMBLING DEVICE: A contrivance which, for a consideration, affords the
player an opportunity to obtain anything of value, the award of which is
determined by chance even though accompanied by some skill, and whether or not
the prize is automatically paid by the device.
   GAMBLING PLACE: A building or tent, a vehicle, whether self- propelled or
not, or a room within any of them that is not within the premises of a person
licensed as a lottery retailer or that is not licensed pursuant to the gaming
control act 1
      1.   Making and settling of bets;
      2.   Receiving, holding, recording or forwarding bets or offers to bet;
      3.   Conducting lotteries; or
      4.   Playing gambling devices.
   LOTTERY: An enterprise wherein, for a consideration, the participants are
given an opportunity to win a prize, the award of which is determined by chance
even though accompanied by some skill. As used in this definition,
"consideration" means anything of pecuniary value required to be paid to the
promoter in order to participate in such enterprise. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Gambling: "Gambling" consists of:
      1.   Making a bet;
      2.   Entering or remaining in a gambling place with intent to make a bet,
to participate in a lottery, or to play a gambling device;
      3.   Conduct a lottery; or
      4.   Possessing facilities with intent to conduct a lottery.
   C.   Permitting Premises To Be Used For Gambling: "Permitting premises to be
used for gambling" consists of:
      1.   Knowingly permitting any property owned or occupied by such person
or under his control to be used as a gambling place; or
      2.   Knowingly permitting a gambling device to be set up for use for the
purpose of gambling in a place under his control.
   D.   Dealing In Gambling Devices:
      1.   "Dealing in gambling devices" consists of manufacturing,
transferring commercially, or possessing with intent to transfer commercially,
any of the following:
         a.   Anything which he knows evidences, purports to evidence, or is
designed to evidence participating in gambling; or
         b.   Any device which he knows is designed exclusively for gambling
purposes or anything which he knows is designed exclusively as a subassembly or
essential part of such device. This includes, without limitation, gambling
devices, numbers jars, punchboards, or roulette wheels.
      2.   Proof of possession of any device designed exclusively for gambling
purposes which is not in a gambling place and is not set up for use is prima
facie evidence of possession with intent to transfer.
   E.   Lotteries:
      1.   Permissive Lotteries:
         a.   Nothing in subsections B, C and D of this section shall be
construed to apply to any sale or drawing of any prize for the benefit of any
church, public library, or religious society situated or being in the village,
or for charitable purpose. A lottery may be operated for the benefit of the
organization or charitable purpose only when the entire proceeds of the lottery
go into the organization or charitable purpose and no part of such proceeds
goes to any individual member or employee thereof.
         b.   Nothing in subsections A through D of this section shall be held
to prohibit any bona fide motion picture theater from offering prizes of cash
or merchandise for advertising purposes in connection with such business or for
the purpose of stimulating business, whether or not any consideration other
than a monetary consideration in excess of the regular price of admission is
exacted for participation in drawings for prizes.
         c.   Nothing in this subsection E1 and subsections A through D of this
section shall be held to apply to any bona fide county or state fair, including
fairs for more than one county, which have been held annually at the same
location for at least two (2) years and which offer prizes of livestock or
poultry in connection with such fair when the proceeds of such drawings shall
be used for the benefit of said fair.
      2.   Fraudulently Operating A Lottery: "Fraudulently operating a lottery"
consists of operating or managing any lottery which does not provide a fair and
equal chance to all participants, or which lottery is conducted in a manner
tending to defraud or mislead the public. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 60-2E-1 et seq.1, one of whose principal uses is:
5-2D-2: DRINKING ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC:
"Drinking in public" consists of drinking or consuming "alcoholic beverages"
(as the term is defined in New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-3A-3):
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   In any village owned park, except a park in which drinking is expressly
permitted by resolution; or
   B.   In any public way, except a public way within a village owned park in
which drinking is expressly permitted by resolution. For purposes of this
section, "public way" is defined as the entire width between the property lines
of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is customarily open to
the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel and includes the
street, sidewalk, and other area between the curb lines or lateral lines of the
roadway and the adjacent property lines; or
   C.   In any village owned parking lot, except a parking lot in a village
owned park in which drinking is expressly permitted by resolution; or
   D.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any establishment licensed to
dispense alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2D-3: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS BY A MINOR CONSISTS OF A
PERSON UNDER AGE TWENTY-ONE:
   A.   Possession up to one-half ounce of a cannabis product and the first
offense shall subject the person to a penalty assessment in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00);
   B.   Possessing more than one-half ounce but up to and including one ounce
of a cannabis product and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and by imprisonment of not more than fifteen (15) days; and for a second or
subsequent offense, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment up to ninety (90) days, or both.
   C.   A citation or charge of a minor in possession of cannabis product will
be dismissed if the minor is listed on the N.M. Department of Health medical
cannabis product patient registry and possesses the corresponding
identification card for a qualified patient. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. 2020-4, 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-06, 7-13-2021)
5-2D-4: POSSESSION, DELIVERY OR MANUFACTURE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED -
- EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
 
               Controlled substance analog means a substance, other than a controlled substance, that
               has a chemical structure substantially similar to that of a controlled substance in
               schedule I, II, III, IV or V or that was specifically designed to produce effects
               substantially similar to that of controlled substances in schedule I, II, III, IV or V.
               Examples of chemical classes in which controlled substance analogs are found include
               the following:
                  1. Phenethylamines;
                  2. N-substituted piperidines;
CONTROLLED        3. Morphinans;
SUBSTANCE         4. Ecgonines;
ANALOG:           5. Quinazolinones;
                  6. Substituted indoles; and
                  7. Arylcycloalkylamines.
               Specifically excluded from the definition of "controlled substance analog" are those
               substances that are generally recognized as safe and effective within the meaning of
               the federal food, drug and cosmetic act or have been manufactured, distributed or
               possessed in conformance with the provisions of an approved new drug application or an
               exemption for investigational use within the meaning of section 505 of the federal
               food, drug and cosmetic act.
                  1.   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for
               use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
               manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing,
               analyzing, packing, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
               inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
               violation of this chapter and the state controlled substances act, New Mexico Statutes
               Annotated section 30-31-2 et seq. It includes, but is not limited to:
                     a.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
               cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which is a controlled
               substance for which a controlled substance or controlled substance analog can be
               derived;
                     b.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
               compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing a controlled substance or
               controlled substance analog;
                     c.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
               increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance or
               controlled substance analog;
                     d.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in identifying
               or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of a controlled substance or
               controlled substance analog;
                     e.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in weighing
               or measuring controlled substances or controlled substance analogs;
                     f.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol, mannite
               dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in cutting controlled
               substances or controlled substance analogs;
                     g.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for use in
               removing seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
DRUG                 h.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, mixing devices and screens or sifting
PARAPHERNALIA: devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding a controlled
               substance or controlled substance analog;
                     i.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, plastic bags, and other containers used,
               intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
               substances or controlled substance analogs;
                     j.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
               storing or concealing controlled substances or controlled substance analogs;
                     k.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used or intended for use in
               parenterally injecting controlled substances or controlled substance analogs into the
               human body.
                  2.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting, inhaling or
               otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human body,
               such as:
                     a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or
               without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls.
                     b.   Water pipes.
                     c.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
                     d.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
                     e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a
               marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand.
                     f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
                     g.   Chamber pipes.
                     h.   Carburetor pipes.
                     i.   Electric pipes.
                     j.   Air-driven pipes.
                     k.   Chillums.
                     l.   Bongs.
                     m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
 
   B.   Relevant Factors In Determining Drug Paraphernalia: In determining
whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other authority should
consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
      2.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section or the state controlled substances act.
      3.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances or controlled
substance analogs.
      4.   The existence of any residue of controlled substance or controlled
substance analog on the object.
      5.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons who he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section or the state controlled substances act; the innocence of an owner,
or of anyone in control of the objects, and to a direct violation of this
section or the state controlled substances act should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as a drug
paraphernalia.
      6.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use.
      7.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use.
      8.   National and local advertising concerning its use.
      9.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
      10.   Whether the owner, or anyone else in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
      11.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      12.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      13.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   It is unlawful for a person to use or possess with intent to use drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the Controlled Substances
Act. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to a person who is in
possession of hypodermic syringes or needles at the time the person is directly
and immediately engaged in a harm reduction program, as provided in the Harm
Reduction Act.
   D.   It is unlawful for a person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver
or manufacture with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia with knowledge, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Controlled Substances Act. The
provisions of this subsection do not apply to:
      1.   Department of health employees or their designees while they are
directly and immediately engaged in activities related to the harm reduction
program authorized by the Harm Reduction Act; or
      2.   The sale or distribution of hypodermic syringes and needles by
pharmacists licensed pursuant to the Pharmacy Act.
   E.   A person who violates the provisions of Subsection C of this section
shall be issued a penalty assessment and is subject to a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00). A person who violates the provisions of Subsection D of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punishable as provided
in section
5-2A-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2020-5,
8-11-2020)
5-2D-5: INHALING VOLATILE SOLVENTS:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section that, in making unlawful
inhalation of volatile substances an offense, inhalant abusers can be
identified and treated.
   B.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "volatile solvent" shall
include, but not be limited to, the following types of chemical compounds:
      1.   Hydrocarbons, including, but not limited to, petroleum distillates
and aromatic hydrocarbons;
      2.   Oxygenated organic compounds, including, but not limited to,
keytones, esters and ethers;
      3.   Halogenated hydrocarbons; and
      4.   Nitrous oxides.
   C.   Unlawfully Inhaling Volatile Solvents: "Unlawfully inhaling volatile
solvents" consists of intentionally smelling, breathing, or inhaling the fumes
or vapors from any paint, glue, gasoline, or any similar substance containing
one or more volatile solvents for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, inebriation, stupefaction, euphoria, exhilaration or the dulling
of the brain or the nervous system. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
   D.   Exemptions: Nothing in this section shall preclude a person from
smelling, breathing or inhaling one or more volatile solvents when done under
the supervision of a practitioner in the course of his professional practice.
(Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
5-2D-6: SALE OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT:
   A.   Sale To Minors Prohibited: No person shall sell aerosol spray paint in
cans to any person under eighteen (18) years of age. A New Mexico driver's
license, an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, or
identity card issued pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 60-7B-
2 shall be prima facie proof of age. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Sign Posted: Any person who owns, manages or operates a place of
business wherein aerosol spray paint in cans is sold shall conspicuously post a
copy of subsection A of this section in such place of business in letters at
least three-eighths inch (3/8") high. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2D-7: PROSTITUTION:
Prostitution is committed when a person knowingly engages or offers to engage
in sexual intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, intercourse, or masturbation of
another for hire. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2D-8: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
"Indecent exposure" is knowingly and indecently exposing the private parts or
sexual organs of a person to the public view. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2D-9: AIDING ILLEGAL ACTIVITY:
"Aiding an illegal activity" consists of either:
   A.   Being found in any place where gambling or prostitution is being
conducted, with knowledge of such activity; or
   B.   Giving or attempting to give any signal intended to or calculated to
warn or give warning of the approach of any police officer to any person in or
about any building, trailer, motor vehicle, premises, or establishment used for
any illegal activity or where any illegal activity is being conducted. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992)
ARTICLE E.  OFFENSES RELATING TO MINORS
SECTION:
5-2E-1: Offenses By Children; Parental Responsibility
5-2E-2: Alcoholic Beverages
5-2E-3: Possession Of Spray Paint Cans
5-2E-4: Abandonment Of Dangerous Containers
5-2E-1: OFFENSES BY CHILDREN; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   False Identification: "Offenses by children" consists of any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years exhibiting any fictitious or false
identification card, note, or other instrument for the purpose of consummating
any transaction whatsoever within the village, or for the purpose of deceiving
or misleading any other person as to the true age of the minor. (Ord. 1992-02,
6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Failure Of Parental Responsibilities: "Failure of parental
responsibilities" consists of a person knowingly permitting his child or ward
to violate the provisions of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-
1992)
5-2E-2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definition: The term "minor", as used in this section, is a person
under twenty one (21) years of age. (2003 Code)
   B.   Permitting Loitering In Liquor Establishments: "Permitting loitering of
minors" consists of the owner or operator of any establishment serving
alcoholic beverages permitting a person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to attend, frequent, or loiter in or about such premises without being
accompanied by the parent or guardian of such person, or to be engaged in the
preparation, serving, handling, or delivery of alcoholic beverages, or as a
topless, bottomless or dancing entertainer in or about such premises.
   C.   Sales To, Purchase For Prohibited:
      1.   It is a violation of this section for any governmental licensee and
its lessee, retailer, canopy licensee, dispenser, restaurant licensee, club
licensee or any other person, except the minor's parent, guardian, adult spouse
or adult person into whose custody any court has committed the minor for the
time, outside the presence of the minor's parent, guardian, adult spouse or
adult person into whose custody a court has committed the minor for the time,
to do any of the following acts:
         a.   To sell, serve, or give any alcoholic beverages to a minor or to
permit a minor to consume alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
         b.   To buy alcoholic beverages for or to procure the sale or service
of alcoholic beverages to a minor;
         c.   To deliver alcoholic beverages to a minor; or
         d.   To aid or assist a minor to buy, procure or be served with
alcoholic beverages.
      2.   In any proceedings under subsection C1 of this section, it is not
necessary for the prosecution, or any person, official or party urging or
contending that such subsection has been violated, to allege or prove that the
parent, guardian, adult spouse or any adult person into whose custody any such
minor has been committed by any court, was not actually visible and personally
present at the time of the alleged violation, but such matters are matters of
defense to be established and proved by the person against whom the prosecution
or proceedings are brought.
   D.   Purchase Or Possession Prohibited: It is a violation of this section
for a minor to buy, attempt to buy, receive, possess or permit himself to be
served with any alcoholic beverage, except when accompanied by his parent,
guardian, adult spouse, or adult person into whose custody he has been
committed for the time by a court, who is actually visible and personally
present at the time the alcoholic beverages are bought, received by him or
possessed by him or served or delivered to him.
   E.   Deception By Persons Representing Minors: In the event any person
except a minor procures any other person to sell, serve or deliver any
alcoholic liquor to a minor by actual or constructive misrepresentation of any
facts calculated to cause, or by a concealment of any facts, the concealment of
which is calculated to cause the person selling, serving or delivering the
alcoholic liquors to the minor, to believe that such person is legally entitled
to be sold, served or delivered the alcoholic liquors and actually deceiving
him by such misrepresentation or concealment, then that person, and not the
person so deceived by such misrepresentation or concealment, shall have
violated this section.
   F.   Violation By Minors: Violation of this section with respect to
possession is a petty misdemeanor by a minor under twenty one (21) years of
age. Any sentence imposed pursuant to this subsection may be suspended in the
discretion of the court upon the condition that:
      1.   The minor relinquish his driver's license for a period not to exceed
three (3) months, whereupon the trial court may dismiss the possession of
alcoholic liquor charge, and it shall not be considered a conviction. In the
event the minor's driver's license is relinquished, the trial court shall
inform the motor vehicle division of the action; provided, however, if the
minor drives during the period of relinquishment, then the court may impose a
fine, jail sentence or both, such fine and sentence not to exceed the maximum
imposed for petty misdemeanors or may impose punishment pursuant to subsection
F2 of this section.
      2.   The minor assist in a community project, designated by the court, up
to fifty (50) hours, whereupon the trial court may dismiss the possession of
alcoholic liquor charge, and it shall not be considered a conviction. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992)
5-2E-3: POSSESSION OF SPRAY PAINT CANS:
No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall have in his possession any can
of aerosol spray paint while in any public place, except under the supervision
of a parent or other parentally approved adult supervisor whether such person
is or is not in any automobile, vehicle, or other conveyance. A New Mexico
driver's license or other approved forms of identification shall be prima facie
proof of age. (Ord. 1992-02, 6-22-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
5-2E-4: ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS CONTAINERS:
"Abandonment of dangerous containers" consists of any person:
   A.   Abandoning, discarding, or keeping in any place accessible to children
any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container, cabinet, or similar
container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which is
no longer in use, without having the attached door, hinges, lids, or latches
removed or without sealing the doors or other entrances so as to make it
impossible for anyone to be imprisoned therein.
   B.   Being the owner, lessee, or manager of any premises with the right of
entry or possession thereof, who knowingly permits any abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox, freezer, airtight container, cabinet or similar container
of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, and which remains
on the premises in a condition whereby a child may be imprisoned therein. (Ord.
1992-02, 6-22-1992)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL ANIMAL CONTROL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Definitions
5-3A-2: Running At Large; Tethering Or Herding Animals
5-3A-3: Noisy Animals
5-3A-4: Animal Abuse
5-3A-5: Wild And Exotic Animals
5-3A-6: Livestock
5-3A-7: Vicious Animals
5-3A-8: Enforcement Officials
5-3A-9: Private Complaint Or Citation To Appear
5-3A-10: Violation; Penalties
5-3A-11: Causing A Nuisance Game Animal Problem
5-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall, unless the
context indicates a different meaning, have the meanings given herein:
ANIMAL: All vertebrates, excluding man.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The animal control officer or law enforcement officer
of the village.
ANIMAL CONTROL ZONE: That area within the incorporated village limits.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any establishment authorized by the village for the care and
custody of impounded animals.
BITE: A puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: An animal which is rare or different from ordinary domesticated
animals and is not indigenous to the state.
KEEPER: Any person who owns, harbors, keeps or has control or custody of an
animal for more than six (6) days; provided, that this term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel owners temporarily maintaining on their premises
animals owned by others.
KENNEL: An establishment for the breeding and boarding of dogs and cats.
NUISANCE: Means, but is not limited to, activities disturbing the peace, loud
noises, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or otherwise endangering or
offending the environment of the village.
QUARANTINE: To detain or isolate an animal suspected of being infected with
rabies.
RUNNING AT LARGE: An animal off the premises of the keeper and not under
control of a competent person. Direct control means connected by a secure leash
not over ten feet (10') in length or some other equivalent means of direct
control.
STRAY OR ESTRAY: Any animal that has no identifiable keeper.
VACCINATION: The vaccination of an animal with an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the secretary of the state health department and administered under the
supervision of a veterinarian.
VETERINARIAN: Any veterinarian licensed in the state.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which commits an unprovoked attack upon a person or
other animal on private property, or which terrorizes or attacks a person on
public property or in a public place.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which is wild by nature and is not domesticated or
controlled. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING OR HERDING ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any domestic livestock, including, but not
limited to, meat cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, burros, swine, goats, sheep,
fowl, cats, dogs or other animals, to be turned loose, abandoned or to
willfully be allowed to run at large within the village limits or to trespass
upon cultivated fields and gardens of any person or for any such animal to be
tethered that it may roam across or into any street or public place in the
village limits; and it is unlawful for any person to herd or detain such
animals in any street, avenue, alley or other public place in the village
limits. The owner of any livestock willfully allowing the livestock to run at
large within the limits of the village or to trespass upon the property of
another is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be sentenced in accordance with
the provisions of section
1-4-1 the village code and may be liable for the damage occasioned by the
trespass.
      2.   No owners of any property trespassed upon as mentioned in this
section shall be liable for the injury, death or loss of any livestock
resulting during the expulsion from or impounding upon his property of the
livestock actually trespassing.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any animal found running at large in violation of
this section is declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and
safety and, if observed by the village animal control officer or police
officer, may be impounded. (Ord. 2004-08, 11-4-2004; amd. 77-14-7 NMSA 1978;
Ord. 2020-3, 8-11-2020)
5-3A-3: NOISY ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for a keeper to allow any animal to persistently bark, howl, or
make noise or to be kept or maintained in such a manner as to disturb or
otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the
neighborhood. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3A-4: ANIMAL ABUSE:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   Physical Abuse: It is unlawful for any person to maliciously kill,
maim, torture, mutilate, burn or to cruelly drive or work any animal.
      2.   Poisoning: It is unlawful to poison domestic animals or to
distribute poison or intoxicants in any manner with the intent of so poisoning.
      3.   Food, Drink And Shelter; Carrying In Vehicles: It is unlawful for
any keeper to fail to provide an animal with proper food, drink and shelter, or
to carry an animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   B.   Abandonment: It is unlawful to abandon any animal within the village
limits.
   C.   Causing Animals To Fight: It is unlawful to cause, instigate, or
promote any fight in which two (2) or more animals are engaged for the purpose
of injuring, maiming or destroying themselves or other animals.
   D.   Use As Prize, Novelty Or Incentive: It is unlawful to sell, offer for
sale, barter, or give away any live animal as a premium, prize, award, novelty,
or incentive to purchase merchandise.
   E.   Dyeing Certain Animals: It is unlawful to color, stain or dye chickens,
ducklings or fowl. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3A-5: WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited: Keeping the following animals is
prohibited:
      1.   Wild animals kept so as to constitute a likelihood of harm to the
animals themselves or to other animals, or to human beings, or which constitute
a public or private nuisance.
      2.   Exotic or wild animals prohibited by federal or state law or
regulation.
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall receive, purchase, own or keep wild or
exotic animals without first applying for and receiving from the state
department of game and fish a permit to do so. Upon receiving the state permit,
the applicant shall abide by all state rules and regulations. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-
27-1995)
5-3A-6: LIVESTOCK:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any cows, hogs, sheep, goats or
other farm animals with the exception of horses for hire as a business under
business licensing in a commercial zone within the village limits. Those
animals that are in the land use area designated as farm or agriculture are
excepted herefrom. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3A-7: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal known to be
vicious and liable to attack and injure human beings unless such animal is
securely kept so as to prevent injury to any person.
   B.   It is unlawful to keep any unvaccinated dog or cat or any animal which
has shown any symptoms of rabies.
   C.   It is unlawful to fail or to refuse to destroy vicious animals or
unvaccinated dogs or cats with symptoms of rabies as prescribed by regulation
of the state department of health for the protection of public health and
safety. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3A-8: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Designated: The village may appoint by contract or hire under the
direction of the chief of police an animal control or law enforcement officer
whose duties shall be as prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
   B.   Authority: The appointed animal control officer or all law enforcement
officers of the village shall have the authority to issue a citation for
violation of this chapter as prescribed by the New Mexico state statutes and to
perform such duties as are prescribed herein. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd.
2003 Code)
   C.   Interference With Enforcement Officials: It is unlawful for any person
to interfere with, molest, hinder or obstruct the village animal control
officer or law enforcement officers in the discharge of their official duties.
(Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3A-9: PRIVATE COMPLAINT OR CITATION TO APPEAR:
The private complaint or citation shall notify violators to appear before the
municipal judge and answer charges of violations of any provisions of this
chapter that may be requested. Any person who fails to appear before the
municipal judge for any violation of this chapter within the time set forth in
the complaint is guilty of a petty misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of
the original charge for which he was cited. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation; General Penalty: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation.
   B.   Penalty Assessment 1
   C.   Liability For Violations: For the purpose of prosecution for violation
of this chapter, it shall not be necessary, in order to obtain a conviction, to
prove notice or knowledge on part of the owner, possessor, or keeper of the
animal in question that such animal was violating any of the provisions of this
chapter at the time and place charged; it being the purpose and intent of this
chapter to impose strict liability upon the owner, possessor, or keeper of any
animal for the actions, conduct and condition of such animal. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-
27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 1-4-2A1 of this code.1: In addition to any fine established in this chapter,
  there shall be a penalty assessment of ten dollars ($10.00) to help defray
  the costs of local government corrections.
5-3A-11: CAUSING A NUISANCE GAME ANIMAL PROBLEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, by intention or through negligence, to
cause a nuisance game animal problem by baiting, feeding, or otherwise enticing
game animals to an area or harassing game animals by spotlighting, treeing, or
chasing with any motor vehicle, and such persons, if convicted, may be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation.
   A.   Residential Refuse Disposal: All refuse containers that receive garbage
and/or refuse edible by wildlife must be secured in a manner that does not
create an attraction for wildlife.
   B.   Special Event Refuse Disposal: Outdoor special event sites shall be
kept free from the accumulation of refuse edible by wildlife. Refuse must be
collected from the grounds at the close of each day's activities and shall be
deposited into appropriate containers or enclosures, or be removed to an
appropriate disposal site.
   C.   Construction Site Refuse Disposal: All construction sites must have a
designated container that receives refuse edible by wildlife. The refuse in
this container shall be emptied at the end of each workday and deposited into
appropriate containers or enclosures, or be removed to an appropriate disposal
site.
   D.   Feeding Of Wildlife Prohibited:
      1.   Intentional Or Unintentional: No person shall intentionally or
unintentionally feed or provide food in any manner for wildlife on public or
private property within the village of Angel Fire. A person will be considered
to be in violation of this section if they leave or store any garbage, refuse,
food product, pet food, grain or salt in a manner which would create a lure,
attraction or enticement for wildlife.
      2.   Exceptions: This regulation shall not apply to:
         a.   Any individual, company or corporation that is duly licensed by
the state of New Mexico or otherwise entitled under law to possess a wildlife
species;
         b.   Any action that is officially sanctioned by the state of New
Mexico that would require feeding, baiting, or luring of wildlife (an example
of one such action would be scientific projects dealing with capturing and
tagging wildlife);
         c.   The feeding of wild birds, unless the bird feed begins to attract
other forms of wildlife.
   E.   Enforcement: The village of Angel Fire police and code enforcement
officers shall have the power to issue a warning notice or a summons and
complaint to any person in violation of this section.
   F.   Violator's Responsibilities: In addition to the penalties outlined in
this section, violators will be required to perform all necessary actions to
remove or abate attractants of wildlife. This may include, but shall not be
limited to: the removal of bird feeders or pet food, cleaning or appropriate
storage of barbecue grills, and/or the required use of wildlife resistant
containers and/or wildlife proof containers.
   G.   Notice Of Violation: A resident shall be deemed to have been issued an
appropriate notice of violation if it is personally served upon the resident,
posted on the resident's premises, or placed in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid
and addressed to the resident according to the last known address given by the
resident to any of the village of Angel Fire government departments. If the
identity of the resident is not known, the entity responsible for payment of
the garbage removal services for the subject location will be held responsible
for complying with this section and for any penalties assessed pursuant to the
same. (Ord. 2004-09, 11-4-2004)
ARTICLE B.  DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Running At Large Prohibited
5-3B-2: Certain Dogs And Cats At Large Declared Public Nuisance
5-3B-3: Confinement During Estrus
5-3B-4: Public Awareness
5-3B-5: Number Of Dogs And Cats Restricted
5-3B-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any keeper of a dog or cat to permit such animal to
run at large in any part of the village limits except on his own premises, or
unless such dog is in the direct control of such keeper, as herein set forth.
The keeper of any dog or cat which runs at large shall be liable for any and
all damage which it may cause to the person or property of another. (Ord. 1995-
06, 7-27-1995)
5-3B-2: CERTAIN DOGS AND CATS AT LARGE DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Every fierce, dangerous or vicious dog or cat, or female dog or cat in estrus
(heat), when running at large, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and
it may be the duty of the animal control officer to confine any such dog or cat
or if necessary, to destroy such dog or cat at once. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995;
amd. 2003 Code)
5-3B-3: CONFINEMENT DURING ESTRUS:
Any female dog or cat in the state of estrus (heat) shall be confined to a
building or other secure enclosure so that contact with a male animal of the
same species will be prevented except for intentional breeding purposes.
Keepers who do not comply with this section may be required to place such
animal in a boarding kennel or veterinary hospital at the keepers' expense.
(Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3B-4: PUBLIC AWARENESS:
Each dog or cat shall be licensed for identification. This will prevent said
dog or cat from being picked up as a stray. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003
Code)
5-3B-5: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED:
No person, group of persons, or business entity in the animal control zone may
own, keep or harbor more than four (4) dogs or cats, or any combination
thereof, which are three (3) months of age or older, without obtaining a
variance from the village. Persons may apply for a variance, and a notice
thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the applicant's property. For
approval, the village clerk shall put the application for variance on the next
regular business meeting agenda to the village council. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-
1995; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE C.  IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Animal Pound
5-3C-2: Impoundment; Entry Powers
5-3C-3: Record Of Impounded Animals
5-3C-4: Notice Of Impoundment
5-3C-5: Complaint Filed In Municipal Court
5-3C-6: Care Of Impounded Animals
5-3C-7: Redemption Provisions; Disposition
5-3C-8: Animal Held On Complaint
5-3C-9: Breaking Into Pound; Interfering With Animal Control Officer
5-3C-1: ANIMAL POUND:
The village council may establish an animal pound for the village to be
operated by village personnel, or at its election, it may contract with a
public or private person or organization for the operation of a dog or cat
pound for and on behalf of the village. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3C-2: IMPOUNDMENT; ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   Authority To Impound: It is lawful for the village animal control
officer to impound any dog or cat which he has probable cause to believe is in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Entry Powers:
      1.   It is lawful for the village animal control officer to go upon
private property for the purpose of catching any dog or cat to be impounded.
(Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
      2.   The animal control officer, in performance of his duties, may enter
upon any lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of apprehending animals
running at large and stray animals. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3C-3: RECORD OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The animal control officer, upon the impounding or receiving of any animal,
shall register such animal by entering the breed, color, and sex of the animal
and the time and place such animal was apprehended into the registry kept for
this purpose. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3C-4: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
If the owner or possessor of the impounded animal is known, he must be notified
by telephone or by regular mail. If notified by mail, the notice shall describe
the animal and set forth the date of impoundment and place where impounded. If
the owner or possessor of the animal is not known, notice of the impoundment
shall be posted at the Angel Fire village hall for a period of seven (7) days.
(Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3C-5: COMPLAINT FILED IN MUNICIPAL COURT:
If an animal is impounded, the village animal control officer shall immediately
institute proceeding in the municipal court on behalf of the village against
the owner, possessor, or keeper of such animal, if known, charging the owner,
possessor, or keeper with a violation of the appropriate section. Nothing
herein contained shall be construed as preventing the village animal control
officer or any citizen from instituting a proceeding in the municipal court in
the village for violation of this chapter where there is no impoundment. (Ord.
1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3C-6: CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The animal control officer may impound every animal found running at large in
violation of this chapter and shall provide proper care and sustenance for such
animal impounded at the expense of the owner, if known. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-
1995)
5-3C-7: REDEMPTION PROVISIONS; DISPOSITION:
   A.   Redemption Upon Payment Of Costs: The owner or possessor of any animal
which has been impounded under the provision of this chapter shall have the
right to redeem the animal upon payment of the impounding fee, care and feeding
charges, veterinary charges, and such other costs attributable to such
impoundment.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   The following fees shall be charged for the impoundment of any
animal under the provisions of this article:
 
First redemption within calendar year  $15.00
Second redemption within calendar year 35.00
Third redemption within calendar year  75.00
 
(Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
      2.   Whenever any animal is impounded, an additional fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) or the cost for boarding shall be charged for each day, or
fraction thereof, of impoundment for feeding and caring for such animal. In
addition, should the services of a veterinarian be required, in the opinion of
the animal control officer, his fees shall be added. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Time For Redemption; Disposition: All impounded animals shall be
redeemed within ten (10) days after impoundment. Any animal not redeemed within
the required period shall become the property of the village and may be placed
for adoption upon the payment of the fee, care and feeding charges, veterinary
charges, and such other costs as set by the animal control officer, or the
animal may be humanely destroyed by the village animal control officer or
person authorized to do so by the village council. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3C-8: ANIMAL HELD ON COMPLAINT:
If a complaint has been filed in the municipal court against the owner,
possessor, or keeper of any impounded animal for a violation of this chapter,
the animal shall not be released except upon order of the court, which may also
direct the owner, possessor, or keeper to pay any penalties for violation of
this chapter in addition to all impounding fees, care and feeding charges and
veterinary fees. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3C-9: BREAKING INTO POUND; INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
Any person who shall break into or in any manner, directly or indirectly, aid
in breaking into the enclosure in which any animal is impounded, without having
paid all costs, charges and fees herein provided for, or who shall wilfully or
intentionally hinder or obstruct the animal control officer in the discharge of
his official duty under the provisions of this chapter, shall be, upon
conviction, punished as provided by the law. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
ARTICLE D.  VACCINATION AND CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Vaccination Certificates And Tags
5-3D-2: Report Of Human Exposure To Rabies
5-3D-3: Quarantine
5-3D-4: Dogs And Cats Bitten By Rabid Animals
5-3D-5: Bites By Wild Animals
5-3D-1: VACCINATION CERTIFICATES AND TAGS:
   A.   Tags To Be Worn; Restrictions:
      1.   The rabies tag shall be affixed to a dog or cat at all times except
when the dog or cat is being kept in an approved kennel, veterinary hospital or
training class.
      2.   No person shall affix to the collar or harness of any dog or cat, or
permit to remain so affixed, a tag evidencing rabies inoculation except the dog
or cat tag issued to that dog or cat. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Certificates Available:
      1.   The rabies certification of all dogs or cats shall be retained by
the owner and shall be available for inspection by any person charged with
enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   Every person who keeps a vaccinated dog or cat must exhibit his copy
of the certificate of vaccination upon demand of the animal control officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
   C.   Harboring Unvaccinated Dogs Or Cats: It is unlawful for any person to
keep a dog or cat which has not been vaccinated against rabies as provided
herein. The penalty for violation of this subsection shall be a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1996-01, 3-14-1996, eff. 3-20-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3D-2: REPORT OF HUMAN EXPOSURE TO RABIES:
Any person with knowledge that an animal has bitten a human being shall
immediately report the incident to the animal control officer and to the local
district health office. Every physician or other health care professional who
treats a person for such a bite shall report treatment to the local district
health office within twelve (12) hours of such treatment. Such treatment must
specify the name and address of the person bitten. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3D-3: QUARANTINE:
   A.   Generally: Any district health officer may declare a quarantine against
rabies within the health district of his jurisdiction when, in his judgment,
rabies exists to the extent that it is a danger to public health. Upon such
declaration, all dogs or cats within the health district shall be confined on
the premises of the owner, possessor or keeper, in a veterinary hospital,
commercial dog kennel or in a municipal animal shelter. After reasonable effort
to apprehend any dog or cat running at large and uncontrolled by its owner,
possessor, or keeper during a period of quarantine, any peace officer may kill
the dog or cat and properly dispose of the body. A quarantine shall not be
removed except by order of the district health officer.
   B.   Rabies Suspects: Any dog or cat which has bitten a person shall be
confined and observed for a period of ten (10) days from the date of the bite
at the animal shelter, a veterinary hospital, or an approved kennel; provided,
however, that if the animal has a current vaccination for rabies and the area
involved is not under quarantine for rabies, the animal control officer may
permit quarantine of such animal at the owner's home. Home confinement shall
not be permitted unless the premises have been inspected and approved for such
purpose by the animal control officer.
   C.   Enforcement: It is unlawful to remove any dog or cat from enforced
quarantine during the period of confinement without consent of the responsible
animal control officer. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
5-3D-4: DOGS AND CATS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS:
Any dog or cat bitten by an animal known or proved to be rabid shall be
destroyed immediately by its owner or by an animal control officer; provided,
that any animal which has received its first vaccination at least three (3)
weeks before being bitten shall be confined for ninety (90) days. At the end of
the confinement period, the animal shall be released if declared free of rabies
by a veterinarian. If, as determined by the veterinarian, the animal develops
rabies during the period of confinement, the owner or keeper shall have it
destroyed and properly disposed of. The owner of the bitten dog or cat shall be
responsible for all expenses incurred for confinement, destruction, and
disposing of the animal. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3D-5: BITES BY WILD ANIMALS:
Bites inflicted by animals other than dogs and cats must be reported to human
services and discussed with the local district health officer for proper
disposition. (Ord. 1995-06, 7-27-1995)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Ordinance Adopted; Copies
6-1-2: Amendments To Traffic Ordinance (Rep. by Ord. 2003-01, 1-20-2003, eff.
1-26-2003)
6-1-3: Penalty Assessment Schedule
6-1-1: ORDINANCE ADOPTED; COPIES:
   A.   Adopted: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the 2010
amendments to the 2004 uniform traffic code and all subsequent amendments
adopted by the state of New Mexico after this date, are adopted by reference
pursuant to New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-17-6A.
   B.   Copies:
   1.   A copy of the 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance, as amended, is
available for inspection during normal and regular business hours at the
village hall, Monday through Friday from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   2.   A copy of the village 2010 New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance may be
purchased from the village clerk at the cost of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
2010-17, 12-21-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 12-24-2024)
6-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO TRAFFIC ORDINANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2003-01, 1-20-2003, eff. 1-26-2003)
6-1-3: PENALTY ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE:
   A.   This chapter may be cited as the Village of Angel Fire Penalty
Assessment Schedule, failure to pay fines, and failure to appear as required.
   B.   As used in the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance adopted by the
Village of Angel Fire, New Mexico, "penalty assessment misdemeanor" means
violation of the following listed sections of the New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance, for which the listed penalty assessment is established. Any
violation not listed herein shall not be deemed to have a penalty assessment
and unless a warning is issued, the alleged violator will be cited to appear in
Angel Fire municipal court.
      1.   Penalty Assessment Violations:
COMMON NAME OF OFFENSE SECTION VIOLATED ASSESSMENT
COMMON NAME OF OFFENSE                       SECTION VIOLATED ASSESSMENT
Pedestrian control signals                   12-5-7           $60.00
Flashing signals                             12-5-8           $60.00
Unauthorized signs, signals                  12-5-10          $60.00
Speed regulations                            12-6-1
(1) Up to and including 10 mph over                           $60.00
(2) 11 up to and including 15 mph over                        $90.00
(3) 16 up to and including 20 mph over                        $122.00
(4) 21 up to and including 25 mph over                        $156.00
(5) 26 up to and including 30 mph over                        $181.00
(6) 31 up to and including 35 mph over                        $205.00
(7) 36 mph and over                                           Court appearance
Minimum speed regulations                    12-6-1.5         $55.00
Overtaking a vehicle on the left             12-6-2.3         $75.00
Limitations on overtaking on the left        12-6-2.4         $75.00
No passing zones                             12-6-2.7         $75.00
Following too closely                        12-6-2.13        $75.00
Driving on divided streets                   12-6-2.14        $75.00
Vehicle entering intersection                12-6-4.1         $75.00
Turning left at intersection                 12-6-4.2         $75.00
Entering stop or yield intersection          12-6-4.3         $75.00
Limitations on turning around                12-6-5.5         $75.00
Starting parked vehicle                      12-6-5.7         $80.00
Turning & stopping movements and required    12-6-5.8         $75.00
signals
Stopping, standing & parking                 12-6-6           $55.00
Special stops required                       12-6-7           $80.00
Stopping for school bus                      12-6-7.3         $350.00
Limitations on backing                       12-6-12.9        $80.00
Careless driving                             12-6-12.4        $155.00
Destructive or injurious material on roadway 12-6-13.5        $100.00
Driving on mountain streets                  12-6-13.11       $75.00
Child restraint device or seat belt          12-6-13.12       $95.00
Mandatory use of seat belts                  12-6-13.13       $75.00
Littering                                    12-6-13.15       $155.00
Pedestrians right-of-way/crosswalks          12-6-14.2        $55.00
Crossing at other than crosswalks            12-6-14.4        $55.00
Pedestrians on streets                       12-6-14.5        $55.00
Drivers to exercise due care                 12-6-14.8        $80.00
Parking in designated handicapped parking    12-9-9           $280.00
spaces
Prohibited acts while driving                12-10-1.1        $75.00
When lighted lamps are required              12-10-1.3        $80.00
Headlamps on vehicles                        12-10-1.5        $80.00
Dimming of lights                            12-10-1.6        $80.00
Tail lamps required                          12-10-1.7        $80.00
Mufflers, prevention of noise                12-10-1.10       $75.00
Lamp or flag on projecting load              12-10-1.11       $75.00
Windshield must be unobstructed and equipped
with wipers; windows must be transparent;    12-10-1.12       $75.00
exceptions
Evidence of registration to be signed and    12-10-5          $75.00
exhibited on demand
 
      2.   The term "penalty assessment misdemeanor" does not include any
violation which has caused or contributed to the cause of an accident resulting
in injury or death to any person.
      3.   When an alleged violator of a penalty assessment misdemeanor elects
to accept a notice to appear in lieu of a notice of penalty assessment, no fine
imposed upon later conviction shall exceed the penalty assessment established
for the particular penalty assessment traffic misdemeanor and no probation
imposed upon a suspended or deferred sentence shall excee ninety (90) days.
      4.   The penalty assessment for speeding in a construction or safety zone
in violation of section 12-6-1.2 (4) of the uniform traffic ordinance is twice
the penalty assessment established in subsection A of this chapter for the
equivalent miles per hour over the speed limit.
   C.   Penalty Assessment Misdemeanors; Option; Effect:
      1.   Unless a warning notice is given at the time of issuing a citation
for any penalty assessment misdemeanor, the citing officer shall offer the
alleged violator the option of accepting a penalty assessment instead of a
court appearance. The violator's signature on the penalty assessment notice
constitutes an acknowledgement of guilt of the offense stated in the notice,
and payment of the prescribed penalty assessment is a complete satisfaction of
the violation.
      2.   A person opting to appear in court rather than accepting a penalty
assessment shall be required to sign the citation as a promise to appear in
court at the date and time noted on the citation. The violator's signature is
not an acknowledgement of guilt but is a promise to appear as required. Failure
to sign a citation shall result in arrest and an in-person appearance, unless
the municipal judge issues other conditions of release.
      3.   Payment of any penalty assessment must be made by mail to the ANGEL
FIRE MUNICIPAL COURT 27A Halo Pines Terrace, PO Box 610. Village of Angel Fire,
New Mexico 87710 or in-person at the same address within thirty (30) days from
the date of arrest. Payments of penalty assessments are timely if postmarked
within the time limits set from the date of arrest. The municipal judge or
court clerk shall issue a receipt when a penalty assessment is paid by
currency, but checks tendered by the violator are received as a sufficient
receipt.
      4.   For any violation requiring a court appearance, the court shall
impose penalties as provided by the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance
(section 12-12-1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular
offense charged.
      5.   No record of any penalty assessment payment is admissible as
evidence in any court in any civil action.
   D.   Failure To Pay Penalty Assessment Or Appear In Court:
      1.   If a penalty assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of citation, the violator shall be prosecuted for the violation charged on
the penalty assessment notice in a manner as if the penalty assessment notice
had not been issued. Upon conviction in such prosecution, an additional fine of
up to three hundred dollars ($300) may be imposed for failure to pay the
penalty assessment. For all other traffic offenses, the court shall impose
penalties as provided by the New Mexico uniform traffic ordinance (section 12-
12-1.1), or other law relating to motor vehicles for the particular offense
charged, and the scheduled penalty assessments shall not apply.
      2.   If the violator fails to appear in court as acknowledged on a
citation, an order to show cause letter will be issued demanding the violator
appear at a new date and time set forth in the letter. If the violator fails to
appear pursuant to the order to show cause, an arrest warrant for the violator
may be issued requiring the violator to appear in-person, unless the judge
chooses to release the violator on other conditions. The violator shall be
prosecuted for the original violation charged on the citation and upon
conviction an additional fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300) may be
imposed for failure to appear as required.
      3.   In addition to the prosecution provided for in section 4 A and B, it
is a misdemeanor for any person who has elected to pay a penalty assessment or
fine to fail to do so within thirty (30) days unless the judge grants
additional time or a payment schedule. (Ord. 2010-17, 12-21-2010; amd. Ord.
2024-02, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2025-6, 4-8-2025)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Registration, Compliance And Insurance Required
6-2-3: General Operating Provisions
6-2-4: Unlawful Operations
6-2-5: Accident Reports
6-2-6: Enforcement
6-2-7: Violation; Penalties
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
herein, unless the context otherwise clearly implies that another meaning is
intended:
OPERATOR: Shall include every person who operates or is in actual physical
control of the operation of a snowmobile.
OWNER: Any person, other than a lienholder, having title by a bill of sale or
other proof of ownership of a snowmobile.
PERSON: Includes an individual, partnership, association, corporation and any
other body or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and regardless of
the degree of formal organization.
ROADWAY: Shall include only those portions of the village streets and alleys
designed, designated or ordinarily used for travel or parking of motor
vehicles.
SNOWMOBILE: Any motorized vehicle designed for operation on snow or ice,
principally for recreational purposes, which uses sled-type runners or skis and
an endless-belt track, or a similar means of contact with the surface upon
which it is operated, but does not include any farm implement or any military
or law enforcement vehicle. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
6-2-2: REGISTRATION, COMPLIANCE AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Registration And Compliance: The owner of a snowmobile shall register
such vehicle in accordance with the applicable laws of the state, and shall
further comply with all provisions of the state laws concerning snowmobiles.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The operator of a snowmobile is required to have
liability insurance as provided for in the motor vehicle code for motor
vehicles of the state. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995)
6-2-3: GENERAL OPERATING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Operation On Village Roadways By Police Permitted: Angel Fire police
officers may operate snowmobiles on all municipal roadways when necessary for
the purpose of enforcement of this chapter and/or under emergency conditions.
   B.   Operation On State Highways: All state highways shall remain closed to
all snowmobiles except as stated in subsections A and H of this section.
   C.   Prohibited And Restricted Locations:
      1.   Golf Courses; Ski Areas; Vacant Lots: Snowmobiles must not be
operated on the golf course, in the ski area, or on vacant lots.
      2.   Private Property: Snowmobiles will not be operated on private
property without the written permission of the property owner in the snowmobile
operator's possession.
      3.   Sidewalks: At no time shall snowmobiles be operated on sidewalks.
   D.   Hours Riding Prohibited: Snowmobiles shall not be operated during the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. local time.
   E.   Operate With Care:
      1.   The operator of a snowmobile must obey speed limits and conform to
all safety laws of the state, the county and the village.
      2.   The operator of a snowmobile must be on the lookout for pedestrians
as well as cross country skiers at all times.
   F.   When Riding To Far Right Not Practicable:
      1.   It shall not be practicable to ride as near to the right side of the
roadway under the following circumstances:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction.
         b.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, pedestrians,
animals, or surface hazards.
      2.   Where conditions permit, the snowmobile may be operated on the right
hand side of a roadway, parallel, but not closer than ten feet (10'), to the
inside of the plow bank.
   G.   Right Of Way:
      1.   Generally: Snowmobiles shall yield the right of way to automobiles
at all times. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway, Building; Approaching Sidewalk: The
operator of a snowmobile emerging from an alley, driveway, or building, or upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall
yield the right of way to all vehicles and pedestrians approaching on said
roadway.
   H.   Crossing Roadways: The operator of a snowmobile may make a direct
crossing of a roadway or highway where such crossing is necessary to get to
another authorized area of operation. Such crossings shall be made at an angle
of approximately ninety degrees (90°) to the direction of the highway and at a
place where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing. The snowmobile
shall come to a complete stop before entering upon any part of the highway or
road, the operator shall yield the right of way to all oncoming traffic and
shall begin crossing only when it can be executed safely and then cross in the
manner as close to a perpendicular angle as possible.
   I.   Parking: No person shall park a snowmobile upon a roadway other than
upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in such a manner as to
afford the least obstruction to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
   J.   Attaching To Vehicles; Towing:
      1.   No person riding upon any snowmobile shall attach the snowmobile or
himself to any vehicle upon the street or roadway.
      2.   No person shall be towed behind a snowmobile unless the conveyance
towed is specifically designed for and sold for the intended purpose of towing
behind a snowmobile.
   K.   Minors:
      1.   Operating Snowmobiles: Children operating snowmobiles must be
properly trained in the driving of snowmobiles and must know all rules and
regulations and must be under the direct control of a licensed parent or
guardian at all times while operating a snowmobile.
      2.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall operate a snowmobile
or be a passenger thereof unless said person is wearing a safety helmet
securely fastened to the head in a normal manner as headgear.
      3.   No dealer or person who leases or rents snowmobiles shall lease or
rent a snowmobile to a person under the age of eighteen (18) unless the lessee
or renter shows such person a valid operator's license and possesses the safety
equipment required of the operator of said snowmobile who is under the age of
eighteen (18). (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995)
6-2-4: UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in any one or more of the
following manners:
   A.   Speed Limit: At a rate of speed greater than provided by law for motor
vehicles. A twenty five (25) mile per hour maximum speed limit for snowmobiles
shall be enforced when en route to or returning from designated trails, forest
access areas, and other snowmobile areas. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995)
   B.   Under Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs: While under the influence of
intoxicating beverages, narcotic or other drugs to a degree that renders him
incapable of reasonable operation. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Careless, Reckless Manner: In a careless, negligent, or reckless manner
so as to endanger the person or property of another, or to cause injury or
damage to either, including a guest or passenger.
   D.   Equipment:
      1.   Lights:
         a.   Without a lighted headlamp and a red or amber taillight which
shall be lighted at all times during such operation.
         b.   The snowmobile must be equipped with one or more headlights of
sufficient candlepower to light objects at a distance of one hundred fifty feet
(150') and at least one taillight of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red or
amber light at a distance of two hundred feet (200') under normal atmospheric
conditions.
      2.   Brake: Without a suitable braking device which may be operated by
either hand or foot.
      3.   Muffler: Without a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation which prevents excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   E.   Persons With Certain Disabilities: Operate or permit such operation by
any person who by reason of physical or mental disability is incapable of
operating the snowmobile as required for safety under the prevailing
circumstances.
   F.   Possession Of Driver's License: Operate a snowmobile upon the streets
of the village as authorized by this chapter without a license to drive a motor
vehicle in his possession, as required by the laws of the state.
   G.   Pursuing Animals: In pursuit of any species of animal or bird protected
by law.
   H.   Minors; Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: The parent of any child
and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such
child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1995-07,
7-27-1995)
6-2-5: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
Any operator of a snowmobile involved in an accident resulting in injuries to
or the death of any person or resulting in damage to public or private property
to the extent of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more, shall immediately notify a
village law enforcement officer or the village police department of the
accident and the facts in relation to the accident. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995;
amd. 2003 Code)
6-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Law enforcement officers of the village, the county sheriff's department,
department of game and fish, forest service, or the state police, displaying
badges of office, have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter
within the village and may require the operator of any snowmobile to produce
the certificate of registration and personal identification of the operator and
may issue citations for violations of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
1995-07, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
6-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Violation of any section of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor and
punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, as follows:
   A.   For any violations occurring upon the public highways or roadways, the
penalty shall be as provided by law for such violations applying to persons
owning or operating motor vehicles according to the New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance, as adopted and amended by the village.
   B.   For any other violation, or for any violation not covered by subsection
A of this section, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1995-07, 7-27-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Liability Insurance Required
6-3-3: General Operating Provisions
6-3-4: Unlawful Operations
6-3-5: Accident Reports
6-3-6: Enforcement
6-3-7: Violation; Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
herein, unless the context otherwise clearly implies that another meaning is
intended:
GOLF CART: Any motorized vehicle designed for operation on golf courses,
principally to carry golfers and golfing equipment, but does not include any
farm implement or any military or law enforcement vehicle.
OPERATOR: Shall include every person who operates or is in actual physical
control of the operation of a golf cart.
OWNER: Shall include every "person", as defined herein, other than a lienholder
or other person having a security interest only, holding record of title to a
golf cart and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
PERSON: Includes an individual, partnership, association, corporation, and any
other body or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and regardless of
the degree of formal organization.
ROADWAY: Shall include only those portions of the village streets and alleys
designed or designated or ordinarily used for travel or parking of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
6-3-2: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The owner of a golf cart that is operated upon a roadway for any duration or
distance is required to have liability insurance as provided for in the
mandatory financial responsibility act 1
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 66-5-208.1 of the motor vehicle code. A certificate of insurance
  shall be carried in the golf cart at all times and shall be presented by the
1 operator of the golf cart to any law enforcement officer requesting proof of
  such insurance in the course of his duties. The operator of a golf cart shall
  ensure that such insurance coverage exists before operating a golf cart upon
  any roadway. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
6-3-3: GENERAL OPERATING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Driver's License Required: Any person operating a golf cart upon a
roadway must possess a valid driver's license issued by any state.
   B.   Operation On Village Roadways Permitted; Hours:
      1.   Operation of golf carts is hereby authorized upon the roadways of
the village, subject to all the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Golf carts will be permitted upon the roadways of the village only
when the operator of the golf cart is traveling directly to or from his
residence and the Angel Fire country club, and only during daylight hours.
Daylight hours are defined as thirty (30) minutes before sunrise until thirty
(30) minutes after sunset.
   C.   Operation On State Highways: All state highways are closed to all golf
carts; except, that the operator of a golf cart may make a direct crossing of a
state highway where such crossing is necessary to get to another authorized
area of operation. Such crossings shall be made at an angle of approximately
ninety degrees (90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing. The golf cart shall come to a
complete stop before entering upon any part of the highway. The operator shall
yield the right of way to all oncoming traffic, and shall begin crossing only
when it can be executed safely and in the most direct manner possible.
   D.   Prohibited Locations: At no time shall golf carts be operated upon
sidewalks or in lawfully posted areas.
   E.   Compliance With Traffic Laws: The operator of a golf cart, when
operating upon any roadway, shall do so in conformance with all vehicle traffic
and safety laws of the state, the county, and the village.
   F.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building; Approaching Sidewalk: The
operator of a golf cart emerging from an alley, driveway, or building, or upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area shall, before entering a roadway, yield
the right of way to all vehicles and pedestrians approaching upon said roadway.
   G.   Slow Moving Vehicle Designation: Every golf cart operated upon a
roadway shall be equipped with a "slow moving vehicle" emblem or with a
flashing amber light. If a "slow moving vehicle" emblem is used, the emblem
shall be attached to the rear of the golf cart in a plane providing maximum
visibility of the sign to traffic approaching from the rear. If a flashing
amber light is used, the light shall be affixed so that it is clearly visible
without obstruction to traffic approaching from the rear. The emblem or light
shall be affixed not less than eighteen inches (18") nor more than seventy two
inches (72") from the ground. The emblem or light shall be visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') or more. A "slow moving vehicle" emblem
shall be not less than sixteen inches (16") horizontal and fourteen inches
(14") vertical, and shall be mounted with the broad base down. The emblem shall
have truncated corners, a red reflective border of not less than one and three-
quarters inches (13/4") in width, and a fluorescent body of yellow or orange or
a combination of the two (2) colors approaching red. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
6-3-4: UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive or operate any golf cart in any one of more of the
following manners: (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
   A.   Under Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs: While under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotics or drugs that render him incapable of
reasonable operation. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Careless, Reckless Manner: In a careless, negligent, or reckless manner
so as to endanger the person or property of another, or to cause injury or
damage to either, including a guest or passenger.
   C.   Operation At Night: To operate a golf cart at night upon any roadway of
the village.
   D.   Equipment:
      1.   Brake: Without a suitable braking device.
      2.   Muffler: Without a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation which prevents excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   E.   Persons With Certain Disabilities: To operate a golf cart, or permit
such operation, by any person who by reason of physical or mental disability is
incapable of operating the golf cart as required for safety under the
prevailing circumstances. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
6-3-5: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
Any operator of a golf cart involved in an accident on village roadways
resulting in injuries to any person, the death of any person, or resulting in
damage to public or private property to the extent of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
more, shall immediately notify a village law enforcement officer or the village
police department of the accident and the facts in relation to the accident.
(Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Law enforcement officers of the village, the county sheriff's department, the
state police, or the department of game and fish, displaying badges of office,
have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter within the village
and may issue citations for any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Violation of any section of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, as follows:
   A.   For any violations occurring upon the public highways or roadways, the
penalty shall be as provided by law for such violations applying to persons
owning or operating motor vehicles according to the New Mexico uniform traffic
ordinance, as adopted and amended by the village 1
   B.   For any other violation, or for any violation not covered by subsection
A of this section, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 6-1-1 and
  6-1-2 of this title.1. (Ord. 1996-02, 5-9-1996)
CHAPTER 4
ASSEMBLIES, DEMONSTRATIONS, AND PARADES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Permit Requirements
6-4-4: Acknowledgement Of Application
6-4-5: Multiple Applications For Same Date
6-4-6: Adjustment Or Postponement Of Activity
6-4-7: Compliance
6-4-8: Exceptions
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow for public rights of way to be used for
public assembly, celebrations and parades in a safe manner while assuring
vehicular traffic circulation for emergency responders and the general public.
(Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person who shall have filed a written application for a parade
permit for the purpose of a public procession, a public gathering or for a
public demonstration.
GRANTEE: The person to whom a parade permit is granted by this chapter.
PARADE PERMIT: Written approval from the chief of police for a procession or a
public gathering or for a public demonstration.
PROCESSION: Any assembly of three (3) or more persons whose gathering is for
the purpose of parading from one location to any other.
PUBLIC GROUNDS: All public grounds owned and under the control of the village
that are open to the use of the public for any public purpose.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of the roadway or street adjacent to the property lines which is intended
for the use of pedestrians.
STREET: The entire right of way as well as the surface of and the space
adjacent to any street, highway, road, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley,
court, sidewalk, parkway, drive or public way, now or hereinafter in existence
within the village. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No person, group of persons or organization of any kind shall use the public
streets, sidewalks or public grounds of the village for a procession,
pedestrian or vehicle, or a combination thereof, in conflict with any of the
traffic ordinances, laws or regulations of the village, or impede, hinder, or
obstruct normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in any manner, except upon
application in writing, containing the following information to the chief of
police. The chief of police will not issue the permit less than seventy two
(72) hours nor more than thirty (30) days before the date and time of the
commencement of the procession and upon receipt of a permit issued by the chief
of police as hereinafter provided:
   A.   The name, mailing address, physical address, e-mail address, and
telephone number of the person, group of persons or organization planning the
procession and responsible for its conduct.
   B.   The date, time, and place of the procession's commencement, the
composition of the procession, the specific route to be traveled, and the
procession's termination point and estimated termination time.
   C.   Written permission from the property owner where the procession will
commence and terminate.
   D.   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles expected to
participate in such a procession, together with a description of the type of
animals and vehicles and pedestrians involved. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-4: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a parade permit, as described above, the
chief of police or his or her designated agent shall furnish to the person,
group of persons or organization making the application a written
acknowledgement of receipt of the application and appropriate approval or
disapproval of the same with any conditions to ensure public health, safety and
welfare. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-5: MULTIPLE APPLICATIONS FOR SAME DATE:
In the event the chief of police receives application for more than one
procession to be held on the same date, the chief of police may route each of
the processions so that they will not conflict with each other or impede
traffic circulation; or may cancel the later application and require a new
application with a different date to be filed with the chief of police. (Ord.
2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-6: ADJUSTMENT OR POSTPONEMENT OF ACTIVITY:
In the event the application for a parade permit under this chapter shows that
the procession will unreasonably interfere with the rights of others to the use
of the streets, sidewalks or public grounds, with respect to the time, route or
composition of the procession, the chief of police shall direct that the plan
for the procession shall be appropriately adjusted or canceled until a later
date. Such directive as to a change in plan shall be delivered to the person or
group notifying the chief of police at least twenty four (24) hours prior to
the proposed beginning of the procession. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-7: COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in any manner in a
procession on the public street as described herein prior to the compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
6-4-8: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Funeral processions proceeding by vehicle under the most reasonable
route from a funeral home, church or residence of a deceased to the place of
interment.
   B.   A government agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   C.   Peaceful picketing directed against an employer whose activities come
with the jurisdiction of the national labor relations act and involved in a
labor dispute. (Ord. 2010-06, 4-20-2010)
CHAPTER 5
FILM PERMITS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Purpose
6-5-2: Permit Requirement
6-5-3: Application For Film Permit
6-5-4: Submittal And Review Of Application
6-5-5: Issuance Of Film Permit
6-5-6: Denial Of Film Permit
6-5-7: Fees
6-5-8: Alterations To Village Property
6-5-9: Extension Of Time
6-5-10: Exceptions
6-5-11: Penalties And Recovery For Damages
6-5-1: PURPOSE:
The state of New Mexico promotes and supports the video film industry and
encourages said industry to produce movies throughout the state. A film
production can be an economic generator that often requires the use of public
rights of way. This chapter provides for a permit process that will protect
improvements on those rights of way and will ensure that it provides for
vehicular traffic circulation for emergency responders and the general public.
(Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
A film permit shall be required prior to any person, organization, corporation,
group or other entity engaging in the activity of filming or photographing an
advertising commercial, movie, documentary, television program, catalog or
magazine layout or similar presentation for commercial purposes at any location
or locations within the village, whether on public or private property, except
as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. For purposes of determining
the requirements for a film permit, filming or photography for commercial
purposes shall include all filming, videotaping or photography by any person or
organization that plans or intends to sell, rent, screen, display, or otherwise
make use of such filming, videotaping or photography for a profit, whether or
not a profit is actually realized from the filming or photographic activities.
(Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-3: APPLICATION FOR FILM PERMIT:
An applicant for a film permit may obtain an application form from the office
of the planning division. The applicant must complete all information requested
on the application form, which at a minimum shall include the following:
   A.   The name, mailing address, e-mail address, and telephone number of the
applicant.
   B.   The proposed location or locations of the filming or photography.
   C.   The dates and times that filming or photography will take place at each
location.
   D.   The total number of persons in the cast and crew.
   E.   The total number of vehicles involved in the filming or photography,
and the specific location or locations where the vehicles will be stationed or
parked during the filming or photography.
   F.   The name and local or mobile telephone number of the person in charge
on site.
   G.   If the filming or photography will require the closure or blockage of
any right of way, a statement identifying the dates and times of such
anticipated closure or blockage, the maximum time in minutes of any such
closure or blockage.
   H.   An indemnification agreement which shall be in a form approved by the
village attorney, stating that the applicant agrees to assume all liability for
and will indemnify and hold harmless the village from any and all damages or
injuries to persons or property that may occur by reason of the proposed
filming or photography.
   I.   Any other information requested by the planning director. (Ord. 2010-
07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-4: SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Submittal Of Application: No later than ten (10) business days before
the first day of any proposed filming or photography requiring a film permit,
the applicant shall submit to the planning division the following:
      1.   A completed and signed application form, including the signed
indemnification agreement in the required form, with no additions, deletions,
or interlineations.
      2.   A nonrefundable application fee in an amount that may be determined
by resolution of the village council, but which shall not in any case be less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   A certification of insurance evidencing a general liability
insurance policy effective during the entire period of the proposed filming or
photography, showing the village as an additional named insured, and providing
coverage limits of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence or two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
      4.   A current list from the office of the Colfax County assessor showing
the names and mailing addresses of all owners of real property within two
hundred feet (200') of each proposed location where filming or photography will
take place, with evidence satisfactory to the village that each such property
owner has been individually notified by the applicant regarding the proposed
filming or photography, including the specific dates and times when such
filming or photography is expected to occur.
      5.   If the filming or photography will require the closure or blockage
of any public right of way, a statement: a) signed by the owner of each
property located adjacent to such closure within a distance of two hundred feet
(200') from the location of such closure or blockage, and b) if the right of
way terminates in a cul-de-sac or dead end beyond the point of closure or
blockage, signed by each business owner or adult occupant of any residence
between the point of closure or blockage and the cul- de-sac or dead end, in
each case reflecting that the signatory has been made aware of the proposed
dates and times of such closure or blockage and has no objection to them, or in
the alternative stating the signatory's objection and reasons for such
objection. No public right of way may be blocked for more than five (5) minutes
at any time unless an approved detour is in place. Any blockage must be
immediately vacated if access is needed by emergency vehicles.
   B.   Review Of Application: The planning director shall forward the film
permit application and supporting materials to the chief of police, the fire
chief, the village administrator, the village building inspector and the
village attorney for review and approval or disapproval. Members of the village
council will also be notified of the application. This review will determine
whether the proposed filming or photography will constitute a threat to public
health, safety or welfare by reason of time, location or duration of the
activity or will unduly interfere with vehicular, pedestrian, or other
nonmotorized traffic. Approval of an application may be conditioned upon the
payment of a traffic control fee or fire department standby fee as provided in
section
6-5-7 of this chapter, and may also be conditioned upon such limitations as to
time, place and duration as are deemed by the village to be reasonably
necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. (Ord.
2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-5: ISSUANCE OF FILM PERMIT:
Upon approval by the chief of police and payment by the applicant of all
required fees, the planning director shall endorse the application reflecting
its approval, shall return the original application with such endorsement to
the applicant, and shall provide copies thereof to the chief of police and the
fire chief. The endorsed application with all attachments and conditions
thereto shall constitute a film permit for the proposed filming or photography
in accordance with the terms stated in the application, including such
attachments and conditions. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-6: DENIAL OF FILM PERMIT:
An application that proposes any filming or photography that would be in
violation of any section of this code, resolution, rule or regulation of the
village shall be denied. An application that has been disapproved by the chief
of police pursuant to section
6-5-4 of this chapter shall be denied. The planning director shall promptly
notify the applicant in writing when an application for a film permit is
denied. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-7: FEES:
Prior to and as a condition for the approval of a film permit, the applicant
shall pay to the village the following mandatory fees, which may be modified
from time to time by resolution of the governing body, which shall in no case
be less than the amounts here shown:
   A.   Film fee. No less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for
each day of filming or photography on village public rights of way or village
property. The fee may be waived at the mayor's discretion for public service
announcement filming.
   B.   Traffic control fee, if traffic control is required by the chief of
police or requested by the applicant. The traffic control fee shall be
sufficient to cover chief's overtime and costs for all periods during which
traffic control services will be required.
   C.   Fire department standby fee, if fire or rescue standby is required by
the fire chief or requested by the applicant. The fire department standby fee
shall be sufficient to cover chief's overtime and costs of all periods during
which fire department standby will be required. Fees will be charged for
standby fire equipment as determined by the fire chief under rates published by
the state forestry division of the New Mexico energy, minerals and natural
resources department.
   D.   Cleanup deposit. If any portion of the filming or photography will take
place upon a right of way or any other public property owned by the village, a
deposit shall be made with the public works department in an amount no less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each day of filming or photography
on such right of way or other public property. Upon the completion of all
filming or photography in the village, the public works department shall return
such deposit to the applicant, less the costs incurred by the village for any
cleanup, restoration, or repair of public property or facilities that is made
necessary by the filming or photography. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-8: ALTERATIONS TO VILLAGE PROPERTY:
No alteration of any nature, whether temporary or permanent, shall be made to
village property in connection with any filming or photography, including,
without limitation, cutting or trimming of trees or vegetation, digging of
holes, or modification of structures, unless such alteration is specifically
approved in advance, in writing, by the village administrator and the village
is compensated for any damages or costs incurred as a consequence of such
alteration. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-9: EXTENSION OF TIME:
An applicant who has been granted a film permit for filming or photography in
accordance with section
6-5-5 of this chapter may make application to the planning director for an
extension of time to provide for additional days of filming or photography at
the same location or locations stated in the original permit. Such application
for an extension of time must be submitted no less than three (3) business days
before the first proposed extension date. The extension of time shall be
granted following review by the chief of police, the fire chief, and the
village administrator, unless denied upon a determination by any of them that
the proposed extension of time for filming or photography will constitute a
threat to public health, safety or welfare or will unduly interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. The applicant shall pay all additional fees
for the additional day or days of filming or photography as provided in section
6-5-7 of this chapter or by resolution or by the village council. Upon approval
and payment of the required fees, the planning director shall amend the permit
to reflect the approved extension of time. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-10: EXCEPTIONS:
If there is a request to film or photograph within the village for a very short
period of time, being less than three (3) days, then the village administrator
may waive subsections
6-5-4A4 and A5 of this chapter (notification requirements) provided:
   A.   Every effort is made to contact affected property owners and residents
and that this effort is documented.
   B.   The police chief, the fire chief, and the public works director can
provide all necessary logistics on site. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
6-5-11: PENALTIES AND RECOVERY FOR DAMAGES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to any penalties under section
1-4-1 of this code, the village may also maintain an action or proceeding in a
court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with, or to enjoin the
violation of any provision of this code, and may also bring an action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to recover the village's costs, incurred as a
result of damages to village property or violations of this code, resolutions,
rules, or regulations in connection with any filming or photography, permitted
or unpermitted. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-20-2010)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET AND DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: Village Policy
7-1-3: Definitions And Abbreviations
7-1-4: Regulated Criteria
7-1-4-1: Street Location And Arrangement
7-1-4-2: Street Classification
7-1-4-3: Access
7-1-4-4: Cul-De-Sac Criteria
7-1-4-5: Half Streets
7-1-4-6: Alleys
7-1-4-7: Easements
7-1-4-8: Projected Traffic Volumes
7-1-4-9: Private Roadway
7-1-4-10: Construction Of Required Improvements
7-1-4-11: Naming Of Streets
7-1-4-12: Utility Easement And Right Of Way Agreements
7-1-4-13: Encroachments, Litter Prohibited
7-1-4-14: Certain Vehicles Prohibited
7-1-5: Engineering Design Criteria
7-1-5-1: General Design Criteria
7-1-5-2: Geometric Criteria
7-1-5-3: Intersection Design
7-1-5-4: Pavement Structural Design Criteria
7-1-5-5: Guardrails
7-1-5-6: Snow Storage And Removal
7-1-5-7: Design Requirements For Curb And Gutter
7-1-5-8: Design Requirements For Curb Cuts, Drive Pads, And Private Curb Return
Entrances
7-1-5-9: Design Requirements For Sidewalks
7-1-5-10: Design Requirements For Bus Bays And Median Cuts
7-1-5-11: Lighting; Signage
7-1-5-12: Fences, Walls, Footings And Encroachments
7-1-5-13: Barricades At Ends Of Pavement
7-1-5-14: Utility Design Considerations
7-1-6: Drainage Design Criteria
7-1-6-1: General Design Criteria
7-1-6-2: Storm Runoff Estimates
7-1-6-3: Culverts
7-1-6-4: Inlet Structures
7-1-6-5: Detention Ponds
7-1-6-6: Open Channels And Ditches
7-1-6-7: Dip Sections
7-1-6-8: Subsurface Drainage
7-1-6-9: Storm Water Quality Protection
7-1-7: Violations; Penalties
7-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter is entitled and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF ANGEL FIRE STREET
AND DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-2: VILLAGE POLICY:
These design guidelines are established for use in the design of street
systems, drainage structures and related features. These criteria are intended
to assure acceptable levels of comfort, safety, quality and durability in
complete designs.
Designers and others using these criteria are expected to familiarize
themselves fully with the following regulations, other pertinent regulations
and the standard reference publications cited herein.
The purpose of these design guidelines is to set forth criteria and standards
to design streets and drainage systems within the jurisdiction of the village.
The intent is to provide the designer with standards and guidelines that will
ensure the design and construction of streets, drainage systems and associated
elements that will incorporate high engineering qualities and provide the
public a safe and durable street and/or drainage system requiring minimal
maintenance and repair.
All plans shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer licensed in the state of New Mexico. The engineer
preparing or supervising the preparation of the plan shall verify that the
proposed street will meet the standards and criteria of the integration with
other project features such as drainage, floodplains, grading, parking and
landscaping.
Material specifications, construction standards and procedures, and testing and
inspection requirements are to comply with the New Mexico department of
transportation "Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest
edition, except as noted herein. However, the standard details as included
within these village road and drainage standards shall apply to the geometric
configuration.
The village reserves the right, in the village's best interest, to issue and
enforce more stringent criteria should adverse conditions exist. The
professional design engineer preparing the plans must certify that any variance
from these standards will result in construction with performance criteria
comparable to the standards set forth in this chapter. Responsibility for
correctness of design lies with the professional design engineer who shall
verify that the information is correct and accurate and that the proposed
design conforms with all applicable standards and regulations of the village.
Variance or deviations from or amendments to any of these village streets
standards require written approval by the village public works director. The
village public works director, or his designee, shall from time to time prepare
and adopt technical standards for infrastructure improvements which amend these
village streets and drainage standards. Such technical standards shall contain
the minimum acceptable design criteria and specifications for the construction
of such improvements.
Recommendations for changes to these standards may be prepared by the village
public works director, or his designee. Proposals for changes to these
standards shall be forwarded to the village public works director for his
recommendation. The village public works director shall then forward his
recommendations either for or against the proposed change to the village
council for their approval or disapproval.
Appeals to these standards or variances are through the village council as per
the subdivision regulations to which these standards are hereto attached and
incorporated as they may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-
2007)
7-1-3: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
For the purpose of these guidelines and standards the following words, terms
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ACCELERATION LANE: A speed change lane, including tapered areas, for the
purpose of enabling a vehicle entering a roadway to increase its speed to a
rate at which it can more safely merge with traffic.
ACCESS: Driveway or other point of access such as a street, road or highway
that connects to the general street system. Where two (2) public roadways
intersect, the secondary roadway will be the access.
APPROACH: The portion of an intersection leg which is used by traffic
approaching the intersection.
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT): The total two-directional volume of traffic
passing through a given point during a given time period, divided by the number
of days in that time period.
BMP: Best management practice. Best management practices are schedules of
activities, prohibitions or practices, maintenance procedures and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the United
States. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or
drainage from raw material storage. With regard to construction these practices
may include structural devices or nonstructural practices that are designed to
prevent pollutants from entering water or to direct the flow of water.
CAPACITY: The maximum number of vehicles that have a reasonable expectation of
passing over a given roadway or section of roadway in one direction during a
given time period under prevailing roadway and traffic conditions.
CHANNEL: Any arroyo, stream, swale, ditch, diversion or watercourse that
conveys storm runoff, including manmade facilities.
CHANNEL STABILITY: A condition in which a channel neither degrades to the
degree that structures, utilities or private property are endangered, nor
aggrades to the degree that flow capacity is significantly diminished as a
result of one or more storm runoff events or moves laterally to the degree that
adjacent property is endangered.
CHANNEL TREATMENT MEASURE: A physical alteration of a channel for any purpose.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The village of Angel Fire comprehensive plan and amendments
thereto.
CONCEPTUAL GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan prepared in graphical format
showing existing and proposed grading, drainage control, flood control and
erosion control information in sufficient detail to determine project
feasibility.
CONSTRUCTION: The construction, reconstruction or alteration of any opening,
excavation, tunnel, sidewalk, curb, gutter, street or other work of any kind
within the public way which results in the physical alteration thereof.
CONSULTANT: A person, partnership or corporation duly licensed as a
professional engineer, according to the New Mexico statutes, who is hired by
the landowner or developer and is empowered to act as their agent.
CONTRACTOR: A person, partnership or corporation, appropriately licensed within
the state of New Mexico, who will actually perform "construction", as defined
in this section, and who is required to apply for and obtain a uniform
excavation and encroachment permit from the village.
CRITICAL VOLUME: A traffic volume (or combination of volumes) for a given
street which produces the greatest utilization of capacity for that street in
terms of passenger cars or mixed vehicles per hour.
CURB: The vertical or steeply sloping member which forms the standup part of
the curb and gutter combination and which may be constructed without a gutter
section as header curb.
CURB CUT: Any break in a curb which facilitates access to or from a street or
alley.
DHV: Design hourly volume, as determined by the design consultant, in
accordance with appropriate design manuals, such as the AASHTO "Policy On
Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", latest edition.
DAYS: Calendar days, not normal working days, unless stipulated as working
days.
DECELERATION LANE: A speed change lane, including tapered areas, for the
purpose of enabling a vehicle that is to make an exit turn from a roadway to
slow to a safe turning speed after it has left the main stream of faster moving
traffic.
DESIGN HOUR VOLUME: Hourly traffic volume used for street design and capacity
analysis, usually one or more peak hours during a twenty four (24) hour period.
DESIGN SPEED: Five (5) miles per hour above the proposed or desired speed limit
of the facility under design.
DESIGN STORM: A storm which deposits a stated amount of precipitation within a
stated period over a defined area and which is used in calculating storm runoff
and in designing drainage control, flood control and erosion control measures.
DESIGN VEHICLE: A. Developments intended for public use must be designed for
the following types of vehicles:
 
Residential (excluding single-family or duplex)      SU30
Commercial uses                                      WB40
Industrial uses                                      WB50
For public streets, the following design vehicles must be used:
Commercial/multi-family locals and minor collectors  SU30
Major collectors                                     WB40
Arterials                                            WB50
 
B. SU designation is for single vehicles; WB designation is for wheel base
length on multiaxle vehicles.
C. Definitions for the above vehicle types are found in AASHTO "A Policy On
Geometric Design Of Highway And Streets" (latest revision).
DEVELOPED LAND: Any lot or parcel of land occupied by any structure intended
for human occupation, including structures intended for commercial enterprise.
DEVELOPER: Any individual, estate, trust, receiver, cooperative, association,
club, corporation, company, firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or
other entity engaging in the platting, subdivision, filling, grading,
excavating or construction of structures or facilities.
DIVIDED HIGHWAY: A highway with separated roadways for traffic in opposite
directions, such separation being indicated by depressed dividing strips,
raised curbing, traffic islands, other physical separations or by standard
pavement markings and other traffic control devices.
DOWNSTREAM CAPACITY: The ability of downstream major facilities to accept and
safely convey runoff generated upstream from the 100-year design storm.
DRAINAGE: Storm drainage.
DRAINAGE COVENANT: A legal document executed between a real property owner and
the village and, in general, identifies, addresses and defines a drainage
facility or facilities, maintenance, village's right of entry, demand for
removal or repair, failure to perform by owner and emergency work by village,
liability of village, indemnification, cancellation of agreement and release of
covenant, assessments, notification, term, binding of property, changes and
severability. The drainage covenant shall be in a form provided by the village.
DRAINAGE DITCH (BORROW DITCH): Ditch parallel to driving surface to convey
rainwater runoff from the right of way. Where no curb or sidewalk exists,
driveway construction shall not block the drainage ditch without providing
property drainage structures.
DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT OR TREATMENT: The treatment and/or management of surface
runoff from all storms up to and including a 10-year design storm.
DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan prepared and adopted by the village which
details the drainage controls required within a particular watershed, arroyo
corridor or other designated drainage district. The drainage management plan
shall comply with an arroyo corridor plan if one has been adopted.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A short, detailed plan prepared in graphical format with or on a
detailed grading plan addressing on site and off site drainage control, flood
control and erosion control issues for lots or parcels of less than five (5)
acres.
DRAINAGE REPORT: A comprehensive analysis of the drainage, flood control and
erosion control constraints on and impact resulting from a proposed platting,
development or construction project.
DRAINAGE RIGHT OF WAY: A public right of way acquired whether in fee or in
easement, by the village or the state for the primary purpose of handling storm
drainage.
DRAWINGS: Detailed or working drawings including plan and profile and detail
sheets.
DRIVE PAD: A concrete paved vehicular way on a road section which is within the
public right of way and which provides vehicular access from a public right of
way to property abutting the right of way. The width of the drive pad is
measured as the horizontal distance along the gutter flow line. The curb
transitions on either side of this dimension are not included in the drive pad
width.
DRIVEWAY: A constructed access servicing three (3) or less units and abutting
to a street or private driveway.
DRIVEWAY ACCESS: A vehicular way on a rural road section which is within the
public right of way and which provides vehicular access from a public right of
way to property abutting the right of way.
EPA: United States environmental protection agency.
EASEMENT: An acquired or granted right from a property owner for a specific use
by the general public, a corporation, or certain person(s).
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT: A permit issued to a private party, corporation, or
utility company for the purpose of excavating a trench or pit for boring under
or within a village right of way for the installation of utility lines,
conduits, or drainage structures.
ENGINEER: The village engineer, village of Angel Fire, New Mexico, or his
authorized representatives acting on behalf of the village.
EROSION CONTROL PLAN: A plan for the mitigation of damages due to soil erosion
and to deposition.
FHWA: Federal highway administration.
FACILITIES: A conduit, channel, culvert, ditch, drain, inlet, pipe, pond, storm
drain, or any other item constructed for the purposes of capturing,
controlling, detaining or retaining storm water flow or for other purposes
required to comply with these standards or to protect the safety and health of
the general public.
50-YEAR DESIGN STORM: That storm whose precipitation within a six (6) hour
period and resulting runoff has a two percent (2%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow use of storms
of longer duration.
FIRETRUCK: A fire apparatus truck particular to the village of Angel Fire with
a minimum fifty five foot (55') inside and seventy foot (70') outside turning
radius used for design purposes.
FLOOD CONTROL: The treatment measures necessary to protect life and property
from the 100-year design storm runoff.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA: An area subject to inundation from the 100-year design storm
runoff.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river, arroyo or other watercourse and adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to safely discharge the 100-year design
storm runoff.
FLOW LINE: The transition point between the gutter and the face of the curb.
Where no curb exists, the flow line will be considered the edge of the outside
traveled lane.
FREEBOARD: That part of the drainage channel that is designed to contain the
wave action of the 100-year design storm.
FULLY DEVELOPED WATERSHED: A hydrologic condition in which all areas upstream
and downstream of a point in question are assumed completely developed,
including any undeveloped areas which are assumed to be developed in accordance
with midrange development densities as established by the comprehensive plan,
appropriate area plans or sector plans, adopted facilities master plans and the
hydraulic and hydrologic standards established by this chapter.
GRADE: Rate or percent of change in slope, either ascending or descending from
or along the highway. It is measured along the centerline of the highway or
access.
GRADING PLAN: A plan describing the existing topography and proposed grading,
including retaining wall locations and details, interfaces with adjacent
properties, streets, alleys and channels, referenced to mean sea level (1929 or
1988 datum) such as village bench mark or NMDOT bench mark, and showing
sufficient contours, spot elevations and cross sections to allow a clear
understanding by reviewers, contractors and inspectors.
GUTTER: A horizontal or slightly sloping member which may form the base of the
curb and gutter combination and which may be constructed as an integral part of
the curb-gutter combination or may be constructed as a separate member without
curb section.
INSPECTOR: An authorized representative of the village engineer assigned to
make detailed inspections for contract performances, standards and contract
compliance.
MUTCD: "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", latest revision, as
published by the United States department of transportation, federal highway
administration.
MAINTENANCE: The cleaning, shaping, grading, repair and minor replacement of
drainage, flood control and erosion control facilities, but not including the
cost of power consumed in the normal operation of pump stations.
MAJOR FACILITY: Any facility, including a street or alley, which would collect,
divert or convey a peak discharge of more than fifty cubic feet per second (50
cfs) or store two (2) acre-feet or more of runoff in the event of a 100-year
design storm.
MASTER PLANNED FACILITY: Any voter approved drainage control, flood control or
erosion control facility by general obligation bond financed drainage control,
flood control or erosion control facility.
MAY: A permissive condition. No requirement for design or application is
intended.
MINOR FACILITY: Any facility which would collect, divert or convey a peak
discharge of fifty cubic feet per second (50 cfs) or less, or store less than
two (2) acre-feet of runoff in the event of the 100-year design storm.
MULTIPLE USE FACILITY: A drainage control, flood control or erosion control
facility in which other secondary uses are planned or allowed including, but
not limited to, recreation, open space, transportation and utility location.
NMDOT: New Mexico department of transportation.
NOI: Notice of intent. (Refer to the U.S. environmental protection agency.)
NOT: Notice of termination. (Refer to the U.S. environmental protection
agency.)
NPDES: National pollution discharge elimination system.
NUISANCE WATERS: Those waters leaving a site and entering a public street,
which do not result from precipitation, such as landscape overwatering or car
washing.
100-YEAR DESIGN STORM: That storm whose precipitation within a six (6) hour
period and resulting runoff has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow use of storms
of longer duration.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot or in a wheelchair or other similar device.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
social club, fraternal organization, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
syndicate, or other group or combination acting as a unit.
PRIMITIVE ROAD: A single or two (2) lane road providing direct access to
undeveloped areas, ranches, recreational and scenic areas.
PRIVATE ROADWAY: A roadway serving one or more dwelling units/commercial lot
which is not constructed, owned or maintained by the village but is constructed
per this chapter.
PROJECT DESIGN SWALE (DRAINAGE DITCH, BORROW DITCH OR BAR DITCH): A swale or
ditch parallel to the driving surface to convey storm water runoff from the
street right of way.
PRUDENT LINE (EROSION LIMIT LINE): That line which will not be disturbed by
erosion, scour or meandering of a natural (unlined) arroyo, channel or
watercourse over a period of thirty (30) years and which will not be disturbed
by a 100-year storm occurring at any time during the thirty (30) year period.
The prudent line shall be so located as to include all freeboard required to
contain the wave action of the 100-year design storm.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: The total area of land deeded, reserved by plat, defined
by statute, declared by court order, or otherwise acquired by the village of
Angel Fire primarily for the use of the public for purposes of vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic.
PUBLIC WAYS: Includes all alleys, easements, rights of way, sidewalks,
walkways, footpaths, streets, roads, highways, village lots and drainageways.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: The public works department of the village of Angel
Fire.
RIGHTS OF WAY: That portion of public land, or private land dedicated to the
public for surface or subsurface drainage, overhead or underground utility
ways, nonvehicular access or other public uses.
ROAD: A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular travel,
including the entire area within the right of way (includes alleyways). Also
referred to as street.
RURAL ROAD SECTION: A road section without curb and gutter.
SETBACK AREA: The part of the public right of way which is not occupied or
planned to be occupied by street, curb, gutter, or sidewalk.
SHALL: A mandatory condition. Where certain requirements in the design or
application are described with the "shall" stipulation, it is mandatory that
these requirements be met.
SIGHT DISTANCE: The length of roadway ahead visible to the driver. The minimum
sight distance available should be sufficiently long to enable a vehicle
traveling at or near the design speed to stop before reaching a stationary
object in its path.
SNOW STORAGE: Additional area within or out of the rights of way which is used
for stacking of snow from roadways. Snow storage widths shall be measured from
the outside edge of roadway shoulders or behind curbs. Widths will vary with
topography and street classifications.
SPEED LANE CHANGE: A separate lane for the purpose of enabling a vehicle
entering or leaving a roadway to increase (acceleration lane) or decrease
(deceleration lane) its speed to a rate at which it can more safely merge or
diverge with through traffic.
STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE: The distance traveled by the vehicle from the instant
the driver of a vehicle sights an object necessitating a stop, to the instant
brake application begins.
STORAGE LANE: Additional lane footage added to a deceleration lane to store the
maximum number of vehicles likely to accumulate during a critical period
without interfering with the through lanes.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Arroyos, storm drains, roadways, culverts, bar ditches,
ponds, pump stations, dams, detention ponds, retention ponds, inlets and
appurtenant structures and other facilities which convey storm water.
STORM WATER: Storm water runoff, which is flow on the surface or in the
subsurface that percolates from the ground resulting from precipitation.
STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: The information and program required by
EPA, NMED and/or the village for construction phase storm water management.
STORM WATER QUALITY CONTROL: The treatment methods necessary to protect and
enhance the quality of storm water.
STREET: A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular travel,
including the entire area within the right of way (includes alleyways). Also
referred to as road.
STREETS, ROADS AND HIGHWAYS: The entire width of every public right of way
owned by or dedicated to the village and shall include the traveled roadway as
well as the property between roadway and adjacent property line.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: The time when the work has progressed to the point
where it is sufficiently complete so that it or a specified part can be
utilized for the purpose for which it is intended.
TEMPORARY DRAINAGE FACILITY: A nonpermanent drainage control, flood control or
erosion control facility constructed as part of a phased project or to serve
until such time that a permanent facility is in place including, but not
limited to, desilting ponds, berms, diversions, channels, detention ponds,
retention ponds, bank protection and channel stabilization measures.
10-YEAR DESIGN STORM: That storm whose precipitation within a six (6) hour
period and resulting runoff has a ten percent (10%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow use of storms
of longer duration.
25-YEAR DESIGN STORM: That storm whose precipitation within a six (6) hour
period and resulting runoff has a four percent (4%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A special condition may require/allow use of storms
of longer duration.
VPD: Vehicles per day.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, New Mexico, a New Mexico municipal
corporation.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The village administrator of village of Angel Fire or
his designated representative.
VILLAGE COUNCIL: The elected officials consisting of a mayor and council
members for the village of Angel Fire.
VILLAGE PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR: The official designated to enforce title
9 of this code (zoning), as may be amended from time to time.
VILLAGE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: A person employed by the public works department
of the village of Angel Fire and so designated by resolution of the village
council.
WATERCOURSE: Any river, creek, arroyo, canyon, draw or wash, or any other
channel having definite banks and bed with visible evidence of the occasional
flow of water. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4: REGULATED CRITERIA:
7-1-4-1: STREET LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENT:
   A.   Conformation: Streets must conform in character, location and
arrangement to adopted plans. Village plans may be the village street plan(s),
approved neighborhood plans, site development plans, sector plans, approved
master plans or adopted future street lines. The village public works director
should be consulted for information regarding applicable plans for areas under
design consideration. Bikeway and pedestrian paths shall be observed, and
implemented, in the design of streets, where feasible.
   B.   Arrangements: Proposed street arrangements must provide for the
continuation of existing principal streets or appropriate projections.
   C.   Solar Access: Streets must be arranged to facilitate solar access where
feasible. To accomplish this, such streets are to be oriented either in an
east-west direction or within twenty degrees (20°) of east-west to the maximum
extent feasible. These criteria may be waived if:
      1.   Other means of providing solar access to lots along such streets are
provided.
      2.   Topographic conditions prevent reasonable achievement of such
orientation.
      3.   Shape and size of property considered make such orientation
unreasonable.
      4.   Adopted stormwater management plans or policies dictate a different
street orientation.
      5.   Existing or approved development contiguous to the property
precludes adequate solar access by this orientation criterion.
      6.   A contiguous street pattern makes this orientation unreasonable.
      7.   Such orientation would result in adverse environmental impacts.
      8.   Circulation requirements between streets require north-south
linkages of limited length. (Maximum block lengths generally shall not exceed
600 feet.) (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
   D.   Intersections: Street intersections shall be laid out to intersect each
other as nearly as possible at right angles, and under no conditions shall the
intersection angle be less than seventy five degrees (75°). Opposing streets
shall either form a four-way intersection or shall be offset by no less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') between centerlines. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-
2013)
   E.   Street Alignments: Street alignments must ensure that sanitary sewers
installed within the right of way will never be closer than one hundred feet
(100') to existing or proposed water wells or underground reservoirs. The
village public works director should be consulted regarding the location of
such facilities within the area under design.
   F.   Alleys: Alleys are not to be provided where other provisions can be
made for adequate and suitable service access. Alleys may be utilized without a
variance if properly designed. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2013-07, 8-
13-2013)
7-1-4-2: STREET CLASSIFICATION:
Village streets are classified according to function. Functional
classifications shall be established by the public works department which has
the authority to determine which classification applies to any given street.
Criteria used to design streets are based on their functional classification.
For planning purposes, the village of Angel Fire uses the following functional
categories in classifying its streets:
   A.   Arterial: Any right of way designated as a numbered state or federal
route. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
   B.   Minor Arterial: (Rep. by Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   C.   Collector: Collectors provide a link between local streets and
arterials, and allow for the movement of through traffic in neighborhoods.
Collectors should be designed so they do not disrupt the activities and land
uses they serve. In addition, access to collectors should be designed so it
minimizes interruption of traffic flows.
   D.   Local: Local access streets provide direct access to and connections
between individual residences, businesses, community facilities and other land
uses within neighborhoods. They also link individual properties to the
collectors and arterial street network. This type of street is for use by
property owners, the general public and service vehicles such as trash trucks,
delivery trucks and snowplows. Streets serving neighborhoods that have been or
are proposed to be subdivided into lots of less than ten (10) acres in size
must meet, at a minimum, local access standards. Where a subdivision includes
lots of differing sizes such that some are less than ten (10) acres and some
are more than ten (10) acres, streets serving such subdivisions shall meet the
more stringent standard. Streets serving neighborhoods where lot sizes are at
least ten (10) acres and projected traffic volumes for these streets exceed
five hundred (500) trips per day shall also meet local access standards.
   E.   Low Volume: Low volume streets provide direct access to individual
properties that have been or are proposed to be subdivided into individual
parcels of twenty (20) acres or larger and the ADT does not exceed five hundred
(500). Low volume streets provide connections from these areas to streets with
higher functional classifications. When an area is proposed to be subdivided
into lots of twenty (20) acres and larger, the public works director shall
consider potential future uses of the property and of adjacent properties in
projecting traffic volumes, and may require a higher standard for street design
if necessary to accommodate future traffic volumes and to implement a
coordinated, functional street system.
   F.   Primitive Roads: A primitive road is a single or two (2) lane road
providing direct access to undeveloped areas, ranches, recreational and scenic
areas. This type of road shall not be used to provide access to subdivided
property. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-3: ACCESS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: Encroachment permits must be obtained whenever a
developer, contractor, property owner, or other individual proposes to connect
a driveway to an existing public or private roadway or recreational pathway in
the village of Angel Fire. The reason for requiring access permits is to ensure
the design of the connection meets the specifications in these guidelines and
allows for proper drainage. Access permits are also intended to assure adequate
reconstruction and/or repair of any damage caused to the village street right
of way, or recreational pathway easement roadway or recreational pathway during
construction of the connection. Access permits shall be obtained before
building permits may be issued.
Warrants and design criteria for access shall be required, pursuant to the
"State Access Management Manual" and the AASHTO "Green Book", latest editions.
   B.   Licenses And Bonds: Any individual proposing to construct a driveway
connection to an existing village roadway or recreational pathway shall obtain
an encroachment permit as provided in this section. Before undertaking any
excavation within a village street right of way, or recreational pathway
easement, an individual must hold a valid contractor's license, for the state
of New Mexico, or must post a surety bond and must obtain an approved right of
way, or recreational pathway easement permit as provided under this code. Bonds
shall be posted with, and permits obtained from, the village planning
department.
   C.   Subdivision Access: There shall be no less than two (2) street rights
of way accessing any subdivision to minimize traffic congestion and/or blockage
in times of emergency.
For access to a subdivision, a paved access to the subdivision from village,
county or state roads shall be provided by the developer through public streets
that conform to these guidelines.
   D.   Procedures/Requirements For Issuance Of Encroachment Permits: The
following procedures, in addition to those provided under applicable sections
of this code must be followed and requirements met in the review of
applications for encroachment permits:
      1.   Submittal Requirements For Encroachment Permits: The following
information must be submitted with any application for an encroachment permit,
unless specific items are waived by the public works director as unnecessary:
         a.   Fee as required by resolution of the village council.
         b.   Completed permit form.
         c.   Site plan showing the following information:
            (1)   Well location, if any.
            (2)   Existing structures, if any.
            (3)   Proposed structures including any garages.
            (4)   Location of property lines.
            (5)   Location of required setbacks and their dimensions.
            (6)   Location of proposed driveways and their grades.
            (7)   Location of any parking area proposed in lieu of meeting
required driveway grades.
            (8)   Access point to village roadway.
            (9)   Location of drainage culvert, if applicable.
            (10)   Location of utilities, if applicable.
         d.   Evidence of legal access.
      2.   Action On Encroachment Permits: Applications for encroachment
permits shall be submitted to the public works department for review and
action. Approval shall be granted only if the proposed driveway, roadway or
recreational pathway connection meets the specifications in these guidelines
and the required fee has been paid. Approval of an encroachment permit may be
accompanied by any conditions deemed reasonable by the public works department
to ensure protection of health, safety and welfare and compliance with these
regulations. Applications for encroachment permits must be submitted at least
one week prior to planned commencement of construction, and construction cannot
commence without permit approval. Whenever an encroachment permit is needed for
a development project, building permits shall not be issued for the project
until approval is granted for the needed encroachment permit.
         a.   Private driveway encroachment to single-family development is not
permitted on principal arterials, minor arterials or collector streets where
encroachment to a minor street is also available.
   E.   Construction Specification For Encroachment Work: All work undertaken
to connect driveways to existing village roadways shall conform to the NMDOT
"Standard Specifications For Highway And Bridge Construction", latest edition
and/or the construction standards referenced in these regulations.
   F.   Construction Schedule For Encroachment Work: As part of its approval of
an encroachment permit, the public works department shall also approve a
construction schedule. The approved schedule shall not be changed after the
permit is issued without the written consent of the public works department.
   G.   Supervision Of Encroachment Work: The permittee shall at all times
conduct work within village right of way, or recreational pathway easement so
as to avoid obstruction and hazard to the traveling public. Materials necessary
for construction of encroachment points to the village roadway shall not be
stored in the village right of way, or recreational pathway easement at any
time. The roadway and roadside area where encroachment work has been performed
shall be thoroughly cleared of all debris and extraneous material and shall be
restored to a condition equal to or better than the original when construction
is concluded.
   H.   Responsibility For Rework On Encroachment Connections: The permittee
shall be fully responsible for the maintenance and correction of any faulty
construction, including unstable road cuts and potholes developed during the
construction period and for a period of one year following the final inspection
of the encroachment work. All deficiencies shall be resolved to the
satisfaction of the public works department and shall meet the requirements of
these standards. Failure to do so could be cause for denial for future
encroachment permits. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-4: CUL-DE-SAC CRITERIA:
   A.   Whenever possible roadway systems shall provide at least two (2) access
points to lots platted for development. Using cul-de- sac streets shall be
avoided. Where cul-de-sac streets are the only alternative, turnarounds shall
be provided.
   B.   Maximum length permitted is one thousand feet (1,000') measured from
the centerline of the intersecting street to the center of the turnaround
unless otherwise specifically approved by the village public works director.
   C.   Maximum number of dwelling units allowed to be served by a cul-de-sac
is twenty (20) unless otherwise specifically approved by the village public
works director.
   D.   Minimum radius of the right of way shall be fifty feet (50') and a
minimum driving surface radius of at least forty feet (40'). In the case of
lots with twenty percent (20%) or greater slopes being accessed by a cul-de-sac
turnaround, the cul-de-sac shall have a right of way radius of one hundred feet
(100') and shall be limited to three (3) lots having frontage on that cul- de-
sac.
   E.   Snow storage shall be provided to keep cul-de-sac turnarounds cleared.
(Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
   F.   Streets which are to continue within future phases, shall end in
temporary cul-de-sacs designed and constructed to village specifications. (Ord.
2013-07, 8-13-2013)
7-1-4-5: HALF STREETS:
Half streets shall be prohibited. However, if all the right of way exists for a
street, it is acceptable that only one-half (1/2) of the street may be required
for construction as long as an additional temporary pavement section is
installed concurrent with the permanent street section. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-
2007)
7-1-4-6: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys may be provided in commercial districts, except that the village
planning and zoning director may waive this requirement where other definite
and assured provision is made for service access and off street loading.
   B.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
and where necessary, corners shall have a minimum radius of twenty feet (20')
to permit safe vehicular movement.
   C.   Dead end alleys shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   In general, easements for utilities shall be provided where necessary
and shall be at least ten feet (10') wide. However, the width of an easement
greater or less than ten feet (10') shall be dependent on the type of utility
placed.
   B.   Where a subdivision, land division, or site development is traversed by
a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream, a stormwater easement or
drainage right of way shall be provided which conforms substantially with the
lines of the 100-year storm watercourse, and further width or construction, or
both, as will be adequate for the purpose and shall conform substantially to an
approved drainage plan for the area.
   C.   All easements shall be in a form as specified and approved by the
village public works director, and where applicable, by the village attorney
and accepted by the village council. In general, the easement format shall
follow the village format for easements. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-8: PROJECTED TRAFFIC VOLUMES:
   A.   Traffic Engineering Evaluation: A site threshold assessment (STH) shall
be required for all developing or redeveloping properties providing access
points that are requested along the village roadway system, and shall be
submitted with the encroachment permit application. The extent of the traffic
engineering evaluation is directly related to the scope of the access
improvement under consideration, or to the size and type of land use for which
access is requested, as determined in the STH. The STH is available in the
appendices of the "State Access Management Manual", latest edition.
   B.   Projected Traffic Volumes: Trip generation should be based on projected
ADT as set forth in the most recent edition of the "Trip Generation Manual",
published by the Institute Of Traffic Engineers. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-9: PRIVATE ROADWAY:
Privateways may be allowed within subdivisions or land divisions and shall be
created only where public right of way would not better serve public purposes
and where privateways can adequately serve all identified transportation,
utility, and stormwater handling requirements. Privateways shall be subject to
the following conditions:
   A.   Privateways may be platted only where the village public works director
determines that the proposed privateway will unlikely function as a street
classified as major local or higher classification.
   B.   If a proposed private way is planned to serve a lot, it shall be shown
on the plat creating or modifying the lot.
   C.   A new private way shall not be required to be narrower or wider than
the appropriate class of public right of way. In general, private rights of way
are to be no less than forty feet (40'). Variance from these criteria requires
written approval of the village public works director and will be considered
only in the case of access to one or more lots or parcels of narrow width. The
minimum private roadway width for this case is twenty feet (20') for one lot
and twenty four feet (24') for two (2) or more lots. More width may be required
to accommodate drainage requirements. If the lands benefiting and using the
easement have the potential for further subdivision, then the minimum easement
widths are as follows:
      1.   One lot: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Two (2) or more lots: Sixty feet (60').
   D.   A proposed plat containing a private street which, under the terms of
its creation can serve more than one lot, will not normally be approved by the
village planning and zoning director until the street surface is either
improved as specified in the village street standards, or financial assurance
satisfactory to the village public works director is posted with the village to
ensure such improvement prior to the use of the street.
   E.   The village council on the recommendation of the village public works
director may require private ways to include public or private utility
easements, including easements for storm water drainage.
   F.   If a private way is approved, it shall clearly be identified as such on
the final plat and the responsibility for operation and maintenance and the
beneficiaries of the easement shall be indicated on the plat. Any legal
instrument intended to assure future operation and maintenance of such private
way, such as an instrument creating a homeowners' association, shall be
included in the developer's submittals to the village planning and zoning
department. If an easement has been created by a previous document, this
document shall be referenced on the plat.
   G.   Private ways must, in general, be created by easements unless unusual
circumstances dictate otherwise.
   H.   The length, width and permanent character of the private way must be
suitably and legally defined by the plat establishing the lots so served, and
the lots served must abut or front the proposed private way.
   I.   Private roads serving more than one lot must be surfaced with a minimum
of six inches (6") of aggregate base course. If more than five (5) lots are
served, private road surfacing shall be six inches (6") of aggregate base
course and two inches (2") of asphalt concrete. A variance from these criteria
requires written approval of the village public works director. (Ord. 2007-06,
8-14-2007)
7-1-4-10: CONSTRUCTION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
In general, formats for subdivision improvements agreements with their
exhibits, extensions, ratifications, bonding, easements, encroachments, and
partial releases shall follow the village format except as modified by the
village attorney.
   A.   Improvements Required:
      1.   The developer shall install and construct such improvements, if any,
as are required by applicable village standards. Required improvements shall be
installed and constructed as specified in the improvements agreement between
the applicant and the village, in accordance with the design standards and
criteria established under village standards, and as shown on the approved
preliminary plat. The requirement to construct improvements in accordance with
the provisions of village standards applies to areas within the village and
outside the village limits.
   B.   Infrastructure Design And Specifications:
      1.   In the case of subdivisions, land divisions, and site developments
requiring construction of improvements, after approval of the preliminary plat
the developer shall present construction plans and specifications for all
improvements to the village public works director for approval, together with a
proposed improvements agreement between the developer and the village
specifying all infrastructure proposed for construction.
      2.   The plans and specifications shall:
         a.   Substantially conform to the preliminary plat as approved by the
planning and zoning director and/or village council;
         b.   Be prepared in conformance with village standards;
         c.   Be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state of
New Mexico; and
         d.   Include a provision running from the developer to the village
holding the village harmless from any liability resulting from negligent acts,
errors, or omissions of the developer or their agents until acceptance of
infrastructure by the village.
   C.   Improvements Agreement: After the approval of the final plat, but
before any lots can be sold, the final subdivision plat must be filed with the
county clerk. Before the final plat can be filed, the developer must either
build all of the required improvements or must enter into a subdivision
improvement agreement with the village and post a financial guarantee with the
village in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total cost of
improvements. Cost estimates are to be submitted in the form of a bid estimate
secured by the developer from the appropriate type(s) of contractor(s) licensed
by the New Mexico construction industries division. This subdivision
improvement agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the developer
and the village.
   D.   Assurance Of Completion Of Improvements: In the improvements agreement,
the developer shall agree to either:
      1.   Construct all improvements, and obtain a certificate of completion
and acceptance for maintenance therefor prior to approval of a final plat to
the planning division or village council for approval; or
      2.   Assure construction after final plat approval. If the developer
wishes to submit the final plat for review, approval, and recording prior to
completion of all improvements, they shall post a suitable improvements
guarantee to accompany their improvements agreement. In general, financial
guarantees are not required for land divisions (summary subdivisions of 2
lots). Improvements shall be required to be constructed prior to plat filing.
The guarantee shall be not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost
of completing the improvements. A quantity estimate for the improvement shall
be submitted by the developer with current rates for infrastructure determined
or approved by the village of Angel Fire public works department. The
improvements guarantee shall also secure all lot improvements that are
essential to the delivery of services or utilities to the individual lots of
the subdivision or land division as specified by village standards. Such
guarantee may be by bond, letter of credit, escrow deposit, or other method
specified by the village public works director. In general, the format for
these agreements shall follow the village format.
   E.   Temporary Improvements: The developer shall build and pay for all costs
of temporary improvements (such as in phased projects) specified in the
improvements agreement and shall maintain same for the period specified in any
applicable village ordinance or as specified by the village public works
director. Costs for removal of temporary improvements may be included if
specified in the improvements agreements. Temporary improvements shall also be
included with the financial guarantees.
   F.   Costs Of Improvements: Any and all costs of new road construction in
new developments are the responsibility of the developer. The developer is also
responsible for constructing the new roads according to these standards.
During the approval process for a proposed development, the developer may be
required to construct a new road or to make improvements to an existing road
that also benefits future developments. The village council may establish a
plan of compensation to the original developer whereby subsequent beneficiaries
pay a fair share for the use of those improvements. Such a plan would be
administered by the village and made a condition of approval for future
benefiting developments. The village council shall determine the equitable
distribution of benefits and costs.
   G.   Improvements Serving Off Site Areas: If any infrastructure improvements
which will ultimately serve lots in addition to those included in the proposed
subdivision are to be constructed, and the developer proposes to construct said
improvements prior to final plat approval, the developer shall prepare a plat
or other suitable legal instrument dedicating to the appropriate governmental
entity sufficient property interests to accommodate said improvements. This
plat or legal instrument may be approved by the village planning commission at
the meeting at which it considers the preliminary/final plat for the
subdivision or land division as a whole. In the case where financial guarantees
are provided, such separate final plat and/or legal instruments shall be
approved prior to the village public works director granting approval to
proceed with construction of any such improvements guarantee sufficient to
ensure completion of any such improvements.
In cases where the impact of a development requires improvements to off site
transportation facilities accessing a development and these improvements are
determined to be necessary for public safety or for traffic operations, the
developer shall bear the cost of such improvements. Such improvements may
include, but not be limited to, improvements such as major drainage crossing
structures, traffic lighting, street lighting and resurfacing or reconstruction
of the facility.
   H.   Inspection:
      1.   It is the responsibility of the permittee to contact the public
works department two (2) days in advance when requesting inspections and thirty
(30) days' notice before the construction is to commence in advance of required
inspections. A final inspection at the conclusion of construction is required.
In making this inspection, the public works department shall check for
compliance with these regulations and approved plans, and also for adequate
cleanup of roadway or recreational pathway surfaces and the right of way, or
recreational pathway easement. Certificates of occupancy shall not be issued by
the building division until access work is determined to be satisfactory by the
public works department.
      2.   Any work or material which does not conform to these regulations,
any pavement failures or broken asphalt, damaged signs or fencing, and
remaining debris either in the roadway or adjacent property, or improper
drainage shall be brought to the attention of the permittee both verbally and
in writing. Any work in which untested or unaccepted materials are used shall
be ordered removed and replaced at the permittee's expense. Any required
corrective work shall be made at the permittee's expense and shall be done to
the satisfaction of the public works department. If immediate corrections are
not made, further project construction shall be stopped.
      3.   In determining whether or not the access work done by the permittee
is acceptable, the public works department may consult with other departments.
If a determination is made that testing is required, the number and location of
the tests shall be determined by the public works department. If the public
works department determines testing by an independent lab is necessary, the
cost of such testing shall be paid by the permittee.
   I.   Acceptance And Maintenance Of Improvements:
      1.   All improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
village public works director, and all public infrastructure shall be dedicated
to the appropriate governmental entity free and clear of any liens and
encumbrances. Upon a determination by the village public works director that
all improvements have been satisfactorily completed, the developer shall
furnish the village public works director as built plans (paper and digital)
for such improvements in a format acceptable to the planning division. The
village public works director's acceptance shall become effective only upon
such approval, and the certificate shall so specify.
The final plat shall grant or reference all drainage and utility easements. Any
easement agreements, if required, shall be on forms specified by the village
public works director and shall be filed either before or concurrently with the
final plat. Where utility infrastructure is located in the public right of way,
a franchise agreement between the village and the utility shall be filed before
or concurrently with the final plat. This franchise agreement shall be on a
form as specified by the village public works director and requires approval by
the village of Angel Fire council.
      2.   Maintenance of all public infrastructure improvements and public
areas shown on the preliminary or final plat shall be the responsibility of the
developer and their agents until acceptance by the village or other
governmental entity pursuant to this section and applicable village ordinances.
The village shall issue a certificate of completion and acceptance within
fifteen (15) days after a final inspection thereof by appropriate village
personnel, when it has been determined upon such inspection that all
installations have been constructed and/or installed in accord with approved
plans and specifications for the subdivision or land division.
      3.   The developer shall be required to record a bond or cause a bond to
be executed by the contractor with the village public works director prior to
dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the village public works
director and in a form satisfactory to the village attorney, in order to assure
the qualities of materials and workmanship of the required improvements for a
period of one year after the date of their acceptance. Such amount of financial
guarantee shall not exceed the cost of the improvements. In general, the bonds
may follow the village format.
   J.   Partial Completion And Reduction Of Guarantee: Upon issuance of a
certificate of completion and acceptance pertaining to a portion of the
required improvements, the village public works director may agree to the
reduction of any improvements guarantee, but not less than one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the cost of completing the remaining required improvements. A
quantity estimate for the improvements shall be submitted by the developer with
current rates for infrastructure determined or approved by the village of Angel
Fire public works department.
   K.   Failure To Complete Improvements:
      1.   Improvements which are to be constructed prior to submission of the
final plat for review shall be completed prior to expiration of the preliminary
plat. If the improvements are not completed prior to the preliminary plat
expiration date, and if there is not satisfactory assurance of completion in
lieu thereof, as provided in this standard, the preliminary plat approval shall
be deemed to have expired.
      2.   If improvements to be constructed after final plat approval
(including improvements serving off site areas as specified in this standard)
have not been installed within the terms of the improvements agreement, the
village may declare the agreement to be in default and, after thirty (30) days'
notice by registered mail to the developer and their surety, may cause all
improvements to be installed and may hold the developer and any surety jointly
and severally liable for the costs of completing such improvements. If
constructed within public right of way or public easement or other public area,
such improvements shall thenceforth be owned by the appropriate governmental
entity without further dedication.
   L.   Design Fee:
      1.   A design fee of five percent (5%) of the construction infrastructure
cost of the project as determined by a quantity estimate prepared by the
developer with current rates for infrastructure determined or approved by the
village of Angel Fire public works department shall be charged to the
developer. This design fee shall be charged in order to cover village of Angel
Fire public works department costs of design review, inspection, and
administrative expenses incidental to the processing and approval of land
divisions and subdivisions.
      2.   Testing fees, if required by village inspection, shall be paid for
by the developer. Construction staking by the village is not included in this
fee. If the developer performs or has performed for them their inspections
under the supervision of a licensed, professional engineer, a percentage, as
determined by the village council, shall be deducted from this fee.
      3.   As a design deposit fee, approximately one-fourth (1/4) of the
estimated design fee shall be paid prior to start of the construction work.
Fees are nonrefundable. By resolution, the village council shall periodically
adopt rules which amend the fee schedule so that fees are set at village cost.
Revised fee schedules enacted by the village council shall be conveyed to the
village clerk and shall be brought to the attention of the interested public.
(Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-11: NAMING OF STREETS:
   A.   All proposed names for new or existing streets must be reviewed by the
planning and zoning department to ensure the street names are unique and do not
duplicate existing street names. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-12: UTILITY EASEMENT AND RIGHT OF WAY AGREEMENTS:
All new construction by public and private utilities which will occupy the
public right of way shall be required to have executed an easement and right of
way agreement with the village on a form specified by the village public works
director and approved by village of Angel Fire council. In general, such
agreements shall be required to include, but not be limited to, the following
general items:
   A.   The responsibility of the utility to relocate its lines at no cost to
the village should the village so require the utilities to relocate their
facilities or lines as a result of the reconstruction or new construction of a
street once the utility company has been given a notice of sixty (60) days by
the village.
   B.   The responsibility of the utility to give reasonable notice to the
village of proposed construction in the public right of way, to obtain
appropriate excavation permits and pay appropriate fees shall be in accordance
with the most current version of the franchise agreement executed between the
village and said utility.
If the utility does not have such an agreement executed with the village, they
shall obtain an excavation permit and shall also pay a design review fee of 1.5
percent of the construction cost of its improvements. This fee shall not be
charged if the utility design is incorporated with the design of improvements
which require the payment of a design fee paid by a developer. This fee is
based on a quantity estimate performed by the utility with the application of
current infrastructure rates as determined or approved by the village of Angel
Fire public works department.
   C.   The responsibility of the utility to obtain barricading permits and to
ensure that the public safety is not endangered during the period of
construction.
   D.   As of the effective date of these village street and drainage design
standards, all new construction by private and public utilities within the
public right of way in village jurisdiction which do not have a franchise
agreement which complies with the above requirements and approved by the
village public works director shall be required to comply with all requirements
of this section. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-13: ENCROACHMENTS, LITTER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Obstructing Public Ways: No person shall obstruct or place an
encroachment upon any village public way or other public place except as
authorized by the village council.
   B.   Littering Public Ways: No person shall litter, track, deposit or cause
to be littered, tracked or deposited ashes, sand, gravel, rocks, mud, dirt,
rubbish, wastepaper, garbage or any other debris or material, except snow, upon
any public way or any portion thereof.
   C.   Deposits From Equipment: No person owning or operating trucks and other
vehicles shall fail to clean such vehicles to eliminate their tracking or
depositing sand, gravel, rocks, mud, dirt or any other debris or material,
except snow, upon any public way or any portion thereof.
   D.   Snow Deposits: No person shall plow, shovel or otherwise deposit or
cause to be deposited any snow upon any public way or any portion thereof. It
is a violation of this subsection to plow, shovel, blow or sweep snow directly
from a sidewalk, driveway, residence, or otherwise deposit snow which impairs
the use of the street by vehicular traffic. The provisions of this subsection
do not apply to persons brushing off snow which has accumulated naturally upon
a motor vehicle parked or driven upon a public way.
   E.   Enforcement:
      1.   Issuance Of Notice: If the village clerk finds that any person has
violated the provisions of this section, the village clerk may notify the
person of the duty to remove sand, gravel, rocks, mud, dirt, snow or any other
debris or material so deposited within twenty four (24) hours from the date of
the notice. Notice under this subsection is sufficient if hand delivered to the
person or an employer of such person. No such notice shall be required if the
village clerk determines that an emergency exists. No person shall fail or
refuse to comply with the notice of the village clerk prescribed by this
subsection.
      2.   Removal By Village; Costs To Violator: If the person so notified
fails to remove debris as required by the notice described in this section, or
if the village clerk determines that an emergency exists, the village clerk may
remove the debris or cause it to be removed and charge the costs thereof to the
person violating the provisions of this section.
      3.   Failure To Pay Costs; Collection: If any person fails or refuses to
pay, when due, any charge imposed under this section, the village clerk may, in
addition to taking other collection remedies, certify due and unpaid charges to
the village finance director for collection. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-4-14: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Snowmobiles: It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate or to
permit the use or operation of a snowmobile upon any street within the village.
(See also title 6 of this code.)
   B.   Trailer Coaches Or Mobile Homes: It shall be unlawful for any person to
use or occupy any vehicle or similar portable structure having no foundation
other than wheels or jacks, and so designed or constructed as to permit
occupancy for dwelling or sleeping purposes, whether the same is self-contained
or not, for human habitation upon the public ways or upon any public property
within the limits of the village. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5: ENGINEERING DESIGN CRITERIA:
The criteria presented herein are major controlling factors in the design of
streets. It is expected that the designers will exercise careful attention to
detail in the application of these criteria to design circumstances. Suitable
transitional elements must be provided between changes in geometric
configuration, pavement and curb character, and drainage carrying aspects of
the ultimate street design.
In the following, the major criteria governing design speed, horizontal and
vertical geometrics, sight distance, curvature and superelevation, gradients,
and comfort controls are presented in applications of the criteria. These
materials are followed by sections treating the design of special elements
related to streets. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-1: GENERAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
The fundamental approach to street design presented herein is to first identify
the design speed the facility is to accommodate and the nominal vehicle type
which is to govern the design. Designing is then accomplished by selection of
appropriate characteristics to accommodate the design vehicle at the design
speed in a safe and efficient manner at reasonable cost on a durable street.
Table 7-A, "Summary Of Road Design Elements", of this section summarizes
criteria considered minimum in village of Angel Fire for various
classifications of streets. Design speeds given are intended to establish
levels to which facilities are to be designed; posted legal speeds are
established only after appropriate examination of the completed street by the
village public works director.
   TABLE 7-A
   SUMMARY OF ROAD DESIGN ELEMENTS
Design Element             Arterial1 Collector Local    Local       Primitive
                                               Access   Volume
Right of way (minimum)     100       80        60       50          40
Recommended design speed   40–55   35–45   25–35  20–35     20–30
Design capacity (ADT)      2,000–  601–    301–600500         100
                           4,999     1,999
Number of lanes            2–4     2         2        2           1–2
Lane width                 12'       12'       12'      12'         10'–12'2
Shoulders                  6'        4'        2'       2'          0'
Maximum sustained grade    8%        8%3       8%3      10%         12%
Surfacing requirements                                  Double      4"
(minimum)                  4" PMBP4  3" PMBP4  2" PMBP4 penetration aggregate
                                                        chip seal4  base
Aggregate base course      12"4      8"4       6"4      6"4         4"
(minimum)
Crown slope                2%        2%        2%       2%          3%5
Ditch section cut slope:
   Foreslope/backslope  4:1/2:16  4:1/2:16  3:1/2:16 3:1/2:16    2:1/1.5:16
(maximum)
Ditch section fill slope:
   Foreslope/backslope  4:1/2:16  4:1/2:16  3:1/2:16 3:1/2:16    2:1/1.5:16
(maximum)
 
Notes:
    1.   Applies to minor arterial only. Principal arterial design elements
must conform to those established by the NMDOT and/or the FHWA.
    2.   For roads having 1 lane, lane must be 12 feet; for roads having 2
lanes, each lane must be 10 feet.
    3.   See guidelines for exceptions.
    4.   The greater of the minimum requirements in this table or the
requirements identified in a pavement structural design shall be used.
    5.   3 percent crown slope required for all roads with an aggregate base
gravel finished surface.
    6.   Slopes must be properly protected to prevent erosion.
(Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-2: GEOMETRIC CRITERIA:
The major considerations in alignment design are safety, grade, profile, street
width, design speed, sight distance, topography, drainage and the
maneuverability, braking and performance of heavy duty vehicles. Alignment
should provide for safe and continuous operation at a uniform design speed. In
mountainous areas, consideration should be given to locating the street so that
a southern exposure will be obtained wherever possible. Street layout should
bear a logical relationship to existing or platted streets in adjacent
properties and to the principles of good engineering practice. All streets
shall be designed such that the streets are centered in the right of way.
In general, criteria for the horizontal and vertical geometrics of street
design provided within the following tables will be the minimum acceptable
values. Unless otherwise specified, refer to "A Policy On Geometric Design Of
Highways And Streets", latest edition by the American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials for geometric criteria. Other factors must
also be considered in a balanced design.
   A.   Vertical Alignment:
      1.   Minimum And Maximum Grades: Minimum and maximum sustained grades
shall be 0.5 percent and eight percent (8%), respectively, except as provided
below. Increases in grade will be permitted for sections of street where the
horizontal radius of curvature exceeds one thousand five hundred feet (1,500')
as follows:
One percent (1%) for five hundred feet (500') maximum to a maximum of nine
percent (9%).
Two percent (2%) for two hundred feet (200') maximum to a maximum of ten
percent (10%).
         a.   No two (2) such sections will be within five hundred feet (500')
of each other or within five hundred feet (500') of a curve having a radius of
less than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500').
         b.   All grades will flatten to three percent (3%) or less for at
least one hundred feet (100') approaching intersections, measurements taken
from the intersection of the rights of way lines.
         c.   Grades approaching the turnarounds in cul-de-sacs will be four
percent (4%) or less for at least fifty feet (50'), measurements taken from the
point of tangency of the road and bulb.
         d.   The maximum design grade should be used infrequently rather than
as a value to be used in most cases.
      2.   Exception To Maximum Grades: A local access or low volume street may
have sections with a grade of nine percent (9%) provided all of the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The section shall be surfaced with six inches (6") of aggregate
base course and two inches (2") of PMBP asphalt.
         b.   The section shall be no longer than five hundred feet (500').
         c.   The section shall have a horizontal radius of one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') or greater.
         d.   Grades shall not exceed six percent (6%) for five hundred feet
(500') on either end of the section.
         e.   Curves with a horizontal radius of less than six hundred feet
(600') shall not be within five hundred feet (500') on either end of the
section.
         f.   Land on each side of the section must be designated permanent
open space.
      3.   Vertical Curves: Vertical curves must be designed to provide
adequate stopping and passing sight distance, headlight distance, driver
comfort and good drainage.
         a.   Stopping sight distance requirements control minimum lengths of
crest vertical curves. Then minimum length for sag and crest vertical curves
will be determined by table 7-B of this section.
         b.   Vertical curves that are long and flat may develop poor drainage
and should therefore be avoided.
         c.   Vertical curves are not required where the algebraic difference
in grade is less than 0.5 percent where curb and gutter is used in the road
section and four percent (4%) otherwise.
      4.   Site Distance: The grade line must meet sight distance requirements
for the design speed. Table 7-B of this section provides the minimum passing
sight distance for the crest of vertical curves.
   TABLE 7-B
Design  Stopping        Passing
Speed   Sight Distance  Sight Distance
15      100                500
20      150                700
25      200                900
30      250                1,100
35      300                1,300
40      400                1,500
45      500                1,650
50      600                1,800
55      700                1,950
 
   B.   Horizontal Alignment:
      1.   Stopping Site Distance: Horizontal alignment must provide at least
the minimum stopping distance for the design speed at all points. This includes
visibility at intersections as well as around curves and roadside
encroachments. The minimum stopping sight distance is the distance required by
the driver of a vehicle traveling at the design speed to bring the vehicle to
stop after an object on the street becomes visible. Stopping sight distance
should be in accordance with table 7-B of this section.
         a.   Where an object off the pavement restricts site distance, the
stopping sight distance determines the minimum radius of curvature, but in no
case will it be less than as specified in table 7-C of this section.
         b.   Offset clearance to achieve stopping sight distance on horizontal
curves can be obtained from table 7-C of this section. The centerline of the
inside lane is used, with the offset distance measured from the centerline of
the inside lane to the obstruction.
   TABLE 7-C
Design  Minimum Curvature  Minimum Tangent
Speed   Of Radius          Lengths
15         75              50
20         125             75
25         175             100
30         250             150
35         375             200
40         550             250
45         700             250
50         850             250
55         1,200           250
 
      2.   Passing Sight Distance: Passing sight distance is the minimum sight
distance that must be available to enable the driver of one vehicle to pass
another safely and comfortably without interfering with oncoming traffic
traveling at the design speed. Two (2) lane streets should provide adequate
passing zones. Required passing sight distance for given design speeds are
stated in table 7-B of this section.
      3.   Curvature: Table 7-C of this section specifies the minimum
centerline radius of curvature for specific design speeds. This table is based
on speed alone and does not take into consideration sight distance factors.
Every effort should be made to exceed the minimum values.
         a.   Consistency in design speed and curve radii should be used to
avoid surprising the driver. Where changes in the design speed are necessary,
the design speed between approach tangents and curves will not change by more
than ten (10) miles per hour. Under no condition will a low speed curve be
introduced at the end of a long tangent, where high approach speeds are
anticipated. Compound curves should be avoided. Reversing curves without an
intervening tangent will not be permitted where design speeds exceed twenty
five (25) miles per hour. The minimum lengths of such tangents are specified in
table 7-C of this section. Broken back curves are not allowed.
      4.   Curb Returns: Curb returns or pavement rounding radii at
intersection corners are as follows:
   TABLE 7-D
 
Street Classification  Curb Return Radius
   Local            25 feet
   Collector        30 feet
   Arterial         50 feet
 
         a.   Additional right of way will be required to provide a minimum
clear distance for fifteen feet (15') between the curb or edge of pavement and
the right of way limit.
         b.   The given criteria are intended as requirements in new
developments and as desirable where feasible in redeveloping areas. All radii
are measured to the back of the curb section in urban street sections and to
the edge of the street surface in rural street sections.
         c.   The selection of appropriate curb return radii at intersections
depends largely upon the governing design vehicle expected to negotiate turning
movements about the return and its effect on traffic flow. Streets commonly
expected to experience large commercial vehicles or bus traffic will require
larger radii at intersections than local streets.
         d.   The designer should consult the village public works director
prior to beginning design of any intersection involving principal or minor
arterials and collector streets of like classifications. Radii requirements for
intersections in commercial or industrial areas should also be reviewed with
the village public works director prior to design. These classifications of
streets frequently experience special traffic circumstances for which the
village public works director will require the use of larger radii.
      5.   Intersections: The minimum distance between intersections for
various street classifications is as follows:
   TABLE 7-E
 
Street Classification  Distance
   Local                  200 feet
   Collector               500 feet
   Arterial                1,000 feet
 
         a.   Distance is measured from the inside edge of each right of way.
   C.   Balanced Design: An abrupt, inconsistent change in either horizontal or
vertical alignment is not acceptable. Thus, long, straight reaches of
residential street, conducive to excessive speed, followed by sharp changes in
alignment which can be negotiated safely only at low speed are to be avoided.
Balanced design will result in appropriately consistent low speed alignment and
street arrangement to preclude such hazardous situations. The designer is
particularly cautioned to maintain distances and stopping distances. Production
vehicles, particularly passenger cars, have rapidly changing characteristics
related to driver eye height above street surface and to braking effectiveness.
When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one point by more
than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than two hundred feet (200')
for local or collector streets and for special cases of a greater radius as the
village public works director shall determine. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-3: INTERSECTION DESIGN:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets must be designed to intersect at right
angles as nearly as practical consistent with topography and sound design. In
general, the acute angles at intersections for all streets shall be eighty
degrees (80°) minimum. However, safety, right of way feasibility, and traffic
efficiency shall be causes for variance from the eighty degree (80°) criterion.
   B.   Spacing Of Intersections: Intersections of streets along arterial
streets are to be minimized. Following are limiting values to be observed:
      1.   Streets intersecting arterials must generally be spaced no closer
than nine hundred feet (900') on center.
      2.   Intersections of streets which are not on continuous alignment
through the street intersected are to be spaced as follows:
         a.   Intersections of noncontinuous streets must be spaced at least
one hundred fifty feet (150') between centerlines of streets on local streets,
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') on collector streets, and
         c.   Four hundred feet (400') on all arterial streets.
      3.   Variances from these criteria will require approval of the village
public works director.
   C.   Intersection Grading:
      1.   Intersections must be graded to provide characteristics consistent
with the design speed of the through street. Projected curb flow line profiles
through the intersection will be required for design review of major
intersections involving arterial and collector streets.
      2.   Minor leg approach tangent gradients to intersections generally must
not exceed four percent (4%) for a distance of at least fifty feet (50') back
from the projected curb flow line of the through street. Deviations from this
standard will require concurrence by the village public works director.
      3.   Street crown may be reduced through intersections of major streets
of approximately equal classification if desirable to promote comfort. Crown
reduction should not generally exceed one- half (1/2) of standard crown unless
special circumstances govern and concurrence by the village public works
director is obtained. Intersection grading must provide for rapid drainage.
      4.   Grades intended to serve as drainage water blocks may only be
designed on minor approach legs of intersections. Maximum height of such water
blocks allowed will be twelve inches (12") as measured vertically from the
projected gutter flow line elevation of the major or through street to the
gutter flow line elevations at the high point of the minor leg gutter. Vertical
curves of a minimum length of fifty feet (50') must be provided for water block
configuration. Adequate stopping sight distance must be provided in the design
conforming to the criteria given in table 7-B in section
7-1-5-2 of this chapter.
      5.   Intersection designs must provide for clear sight distances in the
horizontal plane. Designs should comply with the following criteria:
         a.   No such obstruction to view between three (3) and eight feet (8')
above the gutter line shall be placed or maintained within a triangular area at
the street corner, which area is bounded by: 1) the street property lines of
the corner lot and a line connecting points twenty five feet (25') distant from
the intersection of the property lines of such lot, or 2) the curb lines of an
intersection and a line connecting points thirty five feet (35') distant from
the corner of the intersection and such corner is determined by projecting the
curb lines out to a specific point, whichever is the lesser.
      6.   The designer should specifically investigate intersection design to
assure that design flows will not overtop curbs resulting in damage outside the
right of way. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-4: PAVEMENT STRUCTURAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Required lane widths and right of way requirements for all classes of
streets are presented in table 7-A, "Summary Of Road Design Elements", of
section
7-1-5-1 of this chapter. Subgrade soils investigation and evaluation will be
necessary to determine the bearing values of the proposed subgrade soils. It is
the designer's responsibility to determine that these details are applicable. A
pavement design which varies from these standard details but conforms to the
design procedures of the AASHTO "Interim Guide For Design Of Pavement
Structures" published by the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, Washington, D.C., may be submitted for review by the
village public works director. The structural design guide for flexible
pavements established by the New Mexico department of transportation may also
be used. Variance from the standard details shall require written approval of
the village public works director.
   B.   Acceptable design procedures require investigation and evaluation of
subgrade soils and traffic data including an estimated percentage of heavy
vehicles. A regional factor of 1.5, a serviceability index of 2.5, and
structural coefficients equal to those used by the New Mexico department of
transportation shall be used. Presentation of such data may be required to
accompany the design submittal but shall be made available to the village upon
request.
   C.   The structural design and construction specifications for the streets
to be paved are to be established by a professional engineer licensed with the
state of New Mexico.
   D.   When gravel roads are to be constructed:
      1.   The applicant shall submit specifications for the gravel surfacing
and are to conform to the New Mexico department of transportation "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
      2.   All such specifications shall be subject to approval by the village
of Angel Fire.
      3.   Paved streets may be substituted for gravel roads at the discretion
of the applicant, when the minimum requirement is for gravel roads.
      4.   On gravel roads the crown shall be three percent (3%).
      5.   Drainage structures shall be placed under the roadway at all
intersections with arroyos or watercourses. Drainage structures shall be sized
to pass the runoff from a 50-year, 24-hour frequency storm, and shall be
approved by the village public works director. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-5: GUARDRAILS:
   A.   General: Guardrails are installed to reduce the occurrence of accidents
by delineating the roadbed, to reduce accident severity by deflecting vehicles
into safer paths, and to reduce the rate of deceleration in case of impending
collisions with fixed objects.
   B.   Design And Placement: Only NMDOT approved guardrails shall be used. The
length of guardrail should be planned in multiples of 12.5 feet. No abrupt or
projecting ends shall face toward approaching traffic and delineators shall be
installed according to the current edition of the New Mexico department of
transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
Ordinarily, guardrail is placed only on the outside of curves.
      1.   Curbs: When guardrail is used in conjunction with roadside curbs,
the face of the guardrail shall be flush with the face of the curb regardless
of shoulder width. This is to prevent the takeoff ramp effect that may overturn
a vehicle. When no curb is present, the face of the guardrail shall be flush
with the edge of the shoulder.
      2.   Curves: On curves requiring a reduction in approach speeds, any one
of the following conditions suggests installation of guardrail on the outside
of the curves is needed:
         a.   Height of embankment is more than ten feet (10').
         b.   Side slopes are steeper than four to one (4:1).
         c.   Shoulder or pavement widths are substandard.
         d.   Roadside hazards are present.
      3.   Accidents: Whether on curves or tangents, consideration should be
given to the installation of guardrails if there is a history of roadway
accidents or if unusually high embankments or steep terrain give motorists a
feeling of insecurity.
      4.   Low Visibility: In areas subject to low visibility or snow and ice
conditions, or where traffic speed and volumes are high, guardrail may be
needed where its installation would otherwise be questionable under less
adverse conditions.
      5.   Other Conditions Requiring Guardrails: Guardrails may be required
under the following conditions:
         a.   An obstruction or sudden constriction in roadway.
         b.   An isolated sharp curve on a roadway otherwise built to higher
standards.
         c.   Approaches to bridge piers, abutments, trees or other
obstructions.
   C.   Provisions For Snow Storage: When guardrails are considered for
installation, especially for extended lengths, provision shall be made for
adequate snow storage and removal. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-6: SNOW STORAGE AND REMOVAL:
   A.   General: Adequate space for snow storage shall be provided in the
design of all roadways within the village. For planning purposes, one square
foot of snow storage space is generally necessary for each two (2) square feet
of area to be cleared. This ratio may be somewhat greater or lesser depending
on individual circumstances.
   B.   Snow Stacking: Snow stacking areas shall be provided for all public
rights of way. Maximum stacking height allowed within public rights of way is
five feet (5'). Stacking height, however must not obstruct site distance at
intersections. Extra snow stack areas at intersections and cul-de-sacs is
required.
Snow stacking for driveways shall be provided on the owner's property. Use of
the public rights of way for snow storage by private individuals or companies
is prohibited.
   C.   Accumulations Prohibited On Pedestrianways: No owner, manager, agent or
occupant of real property within the village shall allow snow or ice to
accumulate on public sidewalks and pedestrian passageways abutting their
property, and they shall have joint and equal responsibility for the removal of
all such snow and ice. Individual owners, managers, agents or occupants of real
property shall provide continuous removal of show and ice on public sidewalks
and pedestrian passageways abutting their property.
      1.   The Village of Angel Fire shall conduct snow and ice removal for all
sidewalks and pedestrian passageways abutting public right of ways in response
to a significant snow event. A significant snow event is when there is an
accumulation of at least four (4) inches of snow within a twenty four hour time
period. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 2-22-2022)
7-1-5-7: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR CURB AND GUTTER:
   A.   General: Construction of curb and gutter must conform to the current
village of Angel Fire standard details, and materials to the current edition of
the New Mexico department of transportation "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction".
   B.   Exterior Curb Section: Standard six inch (6") high barrier type curb
and gutter, as shown in the standard details, must be used as the exterior curb
section for all classes of arterial collector, and major local streets.
Deviations from these standards will require written approval of the village
public works director, and shall be considered only in developing, semiurban or
rural areas.
   C.   Median Curb: Median curb must be either a barrier or mountable as
required by the village public works director for the street in question.
   D.   Barrier Curb And Gutter: The village public works director shall
require barrier curb and gutter or mountable type curb at developing, semiurban
areas, and rural areas which would normally require a rural street section.
Factors that influence such requirements are:
      1.   Improving the drainage capability of the roadway to accommodate
flows in developments of two (2) or more dwelling units per acre or where the
roadway will be subject to large surface flows.
      2.   Elimination of potential shoulder deterioration of the roadway due
to heavy load traffic.
      3.   Reduction of shoulder maintenance.
   E.   Sidewalks: If curb and gutter is required, the village public works
director may also require sidewalks. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-8: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR CURB CUTS, DRIVE PADS, AND PRIVATE CURB RETURN
ENTRANCES:
   A.   Common Drives: In residential areas with townhouse (zero lot line)
development, common drives centered on common lot lines will be allowed up to
fifty feet (50') in width measured at the gutter line. Minimum width shall be
thirty feet (30').
   B.   Drive Pad Design Standards:
      1.   The construction of drive pads must conform to the village design
standards, and materials to the current editions of the New Mexico department
of transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
      2.   Drive pads should cross the sidewalk on the sidewalk grade line
without depression of the sidewalks. However, if a drive pad gradient in excess
of ten percent (10%) would be required to avoid depression of the sidewalk, the
sidewalk shall be transitioned to match the drive pad within six feet (6') and
the drive pad gradient shall be maintained.
      3.   Abandoned or no longer used drive pads entering a site to be
developed or redeveloped must be replaced with curb and gutter and sidewalk
must be installed at the grade of adjacent sidewalks in accordance with current
standards.
      4.   Drive pads on the state highway system must be approved by the New
Mexico department of transportation as well as by the village.
      5.   All drive pads must be constructed from the edge of the driving lane
to the property line. If the property line is twenty feet (20') or more from
the edge of the driving lane, a fifteen foot (15') depth is satisfactory.
   C.   Damage: Should the property owner, or their contractor, damage the
integrity of the existing street surface adjacent to a curb cut, he shall be
responsible for restoring the surface as directed by the village public works
director.
   D.   Drive Pad Widths (Nonresidential):
      1.   Arterials and collectors: Thirty foot (30') minimum for right turn
in and out (no left turn access); thirty five feet (35') desirable. Thirty five
foot (35') minimum with left turn access; forty feet (40') desirable.
      2.   One-way drives: These are only permitted where the circulation is
self-enforcing; that is, the circulation pattern allows for desired flow by the
motorist. The drive pad shall be designed for the turning path of the vehicle
utilizing the drive.
      3.   Widths for larger vehicles: Up to fifty foot (50') width for tractor
trailer combinations, mobile homes.
      4.   Local streets:
         a.   Twenty five foot (25') minimum for two-way access to and from
street; exception is for when five (5) or less spaces are required; twelve foot
(12') minimum width for one-way access.
         b.   No backing into the streets is permitted.
         c.   Twenty five feet (25') to thirty five feet (35') permitted.
         d.   Forty feet (40') to fifty feet (50') for substantial large
vehicle usage.
         e.   Twelve feet (12') to twenty feet (20') for one-way drive (with
appropriate signs and parking layout).
   E.   Maximum Number Of Drive Pads/Entrances:
      1.   Principal arterials: As allowed by the New Mexico department of
transportation with consideration given that one to two (2) drives per three
hundred foot (300') frontage depending upon various factors including the
general layout of the site.
      2.   Minor arterials: One to two (2) drives per one hundred fifty foot
(150') frontage.
      3.   Collectors: One drive per seventy five foot (75') frontage.
   F.   Curb Return Construction vs. Drive Pad Construction: Curb returns
provide better entering and exiting characteristics for vehicles. These will be
required where there are sufficient numbers of vehicles entering and exiting
developments on arterials. They will be permitted in other cases given
sufficient traffic generation.
      1.   Curb returns required:
         a.   On arterials where:
            (1)   High generators with fifty (50) or more required spaces.
            (2)   The development has median access and twenty five (25) or
more spaces.
      2.   Curb returns permitted:
         a.   On arterials where:
            (1)   High generators with twenty five (25) or more spaces.
            (2)   Medium generators with fifty (50) or more spaces.
         b.   On collectors where:
            (1)   Twenty five (25) or more spaces per drive or to accommodate
large vehicles (tractor trailer combinations).
         c.   Local where:
            (1)   Fifty (50) or more spaces per drive or to accommodate large
vehicles.
   G.   Location Of Drives: Drives are to be somewhat evenly spaced where there
is more than one drive. The following distances should be used as minimums for
an intersection. Dimensions are from face of curb of intersecting street to the
centerline of drive pad or access.
      1.   Minor Arterial:
         a.   Approach condition:
            (1)   One hundred fifty feet (150') to an arterial or collector
intersection.
            (2)   Seventy five feet (75') to a local street.
         b.   Following condition:
            (1)   Seventy five feet (75') from collector or arterial
intersection.
            (2)   Fifty feet (50') from a local street intersection.
      2.   Collector:
         a.   One hundred feet (100') to a collector or arterial intersection.
         b.   Fifty feet (50') to a local street intersection.
         c.   Fifty feet (50') following any intersection.
      3.   Local:
         a.   Fifty feet (50') from intersection with arterial.
         b.   Twenty five feet (25') from intersection - any other street.
      4.   Drives With Median Access:
         a.   Streets with median channelization: Drives need to be placed such
that the centerline of the drive is approximately centered on the median
openings. Where a drive exists on the opposite side of the street, the
centerline of new drive needs to be within ten feet (10') of the existing drive
centerline.
         b.   Streets without median channelization: Where drives are to be
constructed on opposite sides of the street, unless they are small
developments, or offset by more than fifty feet (50'), the centerline needs to
be within fifteen feet (15') of each other. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-9: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR SIDEWALKS:
The fundamental requirements governing sidewalk design are established by this
standard. Sidewalk designs must provide for mobility, safety and conform of the
pedestrian and provide for adequate pedestrian access to abutting property.
Pertinent sidewalk design criteria are collected herein for the convenience of
the designer.
   A.   Sidewalk Widths:
      1.   Six foot (6') width is required when constructed with streets
designated as follows:
         a.   Arterial.
         b.   Collector: When abutting land zoned high density residential,
commercial, or where development is similar to that allowed in the preceding
zones.
         c.   Local or collector: Abutting grounds of schools or churches.
      2.   Four foot (4') width where constructed with local or collector
streets.
      3.   Special widths as per adopted plans.
   B.   Sidewalk Location; Horizontal:
      1.   Along arterial streets, sidewalks must be located within the right
of way so that the street side edge of the walk is twelve feet (12') from the
back of the curb, where sufficient right of way is available. If right of way
is insufficient, the walk must be set within the right of way with the property
side edge at the property line.
      2.   Along collector, major local, and local streets, sidewalks must be
located within the right of way with the property side edge of the walk at the
property line.
      3.   Variances from sidewalk standards will require approval by the
village public works director.
      4.   Sidewalk location adjacent to curbs is discouraged. Interference of
other items of street furniture such as street lighting standards and fire
hydrants and the resultant close proximity between pedestrian and vehicular
traffic make this location highly undesirable.
      5.   Unless a variance has been granted by the village public works
director, a minimum of three feet (3') of separation must be maintained between
sidewalk and the back of any mountable or flat curb.
   C.   Transverse Slope:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be provided with a transverse slope of one- fourth
inch (1/4") per foot, sloping toward the street. If other transverse slopes are
proposed, they must be safe for pedestrian and handicapped traffic.
   D.   Sidewalk Location; Vertical:
      1.   The sidewalk must be located vertically such that the top surface of
the sidewalk will be at or above the top of curb at the lowest point on the
sidewalk and must be appropriate to the overall street section design within
the right of way.
   E.   Sidewalk Materials:
      1.   Sidewalks are to be of Portland cement concrete of a minimum of four
inch (4") thickness as shown in the standard details. Designs incorporating
alternate materials must be approved by the village public works director. The
basis for consideration of such approval will be appropriateness, safety and
durability resulting in a useful life expectancy equal to that of the standard
Portland cement concrete walks. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-10: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR BUS BAYS AND MEDIAN CUTS:
   A.   Bus Bays:
      1.   Additional right of way may be required for bus bays on arterial and
collector streets at locations recommended by the busing authority and approved
by the village public works director. The width of the additional right of way
will be whatever is necessary to provide ten feet (10') from face of the curb
along the bus bay. (Dedication of right of way is required as a condition of
approval for subdivisions, SU zonings and shopping center site plans.) Bus bay
design must provide for conveyance of nuisance drainage flow by valley gutter
or other approved means.
   B.   Median Cuts:
      1.   On all streets with medians, the allowable minimum distance between
the ends of adjacent median cut is three hundred feet (300'). Since median cuts
vary from sixty feet (60') to ninety six feet (96'), the allowable minimum
centerline to centerline spacing of median cuts varies from three hundred sixty
feet (360') to three hundred ninety six feet (396'). At intersections with
arterial streets, the allowable minimum distance is normally increased to four
hundred feet (400') (centerline to centerline spacing of approximately 500
feet). A median cut will not be approved automatically because it meets the
spacing requirements; type of development, internal circulation and traffic
operating conditions (existing or projected) on the street will also be
considered.
      2.   The locations and design of median cuts are subject to approval of
the New Mexico department of transportation for all streets which are on the
state highway system. A majority of the arterial and collector streets are on
the state highway system, even though they are not marked as numbered state
routes.
      3.   If a new median cut is desired, the applicant must apply in writing
to the village public works director, giving:
         a.   Location.
         b.   Name and address of the applicant.
         c.   Name and address of the party who will pay for the cut.
         d.   Proposed use of the property.
         e.   A site plan showing buildings and parking.
The village public works director then determines whether the median cut will
be approved and notifies the applicant. If approved, construction plans and a
quantity estimate will be prepared by the applicant and submitted to the
village public works director for approval. After approval, the village public
works director will complete the cost estimate by applying current
infrastructure rates determined or approved by the village of Angel Fire public
works department. The applicant will have the option of having the median cut
constructed by a contractor employed by the applicant and approved by the
village. An engineering design review fee of five percent (5%) of the
construction cost estimate will be required of the applicant. One-fourth (1/4)
of the design review fee shall be paid upon initial application and the balance
of the fee shall be paid by the applicant prior to issuance of the construction
work order. Fees are not refundable.
      4.   The construction of appropriate left turn lanes, if design permits,
must be included with any new median cuts. The costs of new median cuts and
turn lanes feeding the property of the applicant are to be borne by the
applicant.
      5.   All median cut designs must address drainage needs and control.
   C.   Left Turn Lanes:
      1.   Left turn lanes are required at all existing or proposed median
openings which will serve a particular development. The normal minimum length
of the turn lane is one hundred feet (100'); however, the length of each turn
lane shall be determined by the village public works director. Lengths may be
increased for higher volume generators or decreased to meet restricted physical
or traffic conditions. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-11: LIGHTING; SIGNAGE:
   A.   Street Lighting: The policy of the village is that arterial (and
selected collector) streets within the core of the village shall be lighted to
Illuminating Engineering Society standards for arterial streets. On all other
streets, one hundred (100) watt high pressure sodium vapor lights shall be
located at all major intersections. If street lighting is determined to be
necessary for a development, the developer is required to provide all of the
costs related to the street lighting.
   B.   Traffic Signs: Street name signs are installed by the village. The
developer of a subdivision pays a street name sign fee for each intersection at
the time of application. All other traffic signs are installed by the
developer.
   C.   Traffic Signals: Traffic signals are designed and installed by or under
the direction of the village public works director. If traffic signals are
determined to be necessary for a development, the developer may be required to
supply all or part of the cost, as determined by the village public works
director. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-12: FENCES, WALLS, FOOTINGS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
In multi-family residential and commercial developments, walls, footings,
fences, and encroachments are not permitted within the right of way. In
general, in new residential subdivisions, walls, footings, fences and
encroachments shall not be permitted in the right of way.
In existing, mostly developed subdivisions, walls, footings, fences, and
encroachments are discouraged but may be placed within the right of way if
approved by the village public works director. Any encroachment must be applied
for from the village public works director with an encroachment agreement,
approved by the village council and then executed on behalf of the village by
the village public works director. This encroachment agreement shall generally
follow the village format. The encroachment agreement provides that the
applicant must remove the wall, footing or fence within a specific time
(normally 72 hours) upon notification by the village, and makes the applicant
responsible for indemnifying the village from any negligent actions by the
applicant. There is a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for recording the
contract.
Walls or fences over three feet (3') in height will not be approved within the
right of way if the wall or fence will be less than nine feet (9') from face of
curb on local streets and less than ten feet (10') from face of curb on
arterial and collector streets. All walls or fences over three feet (3') in
height and within the right of way must be field checked by the village public
works director prior to approval. Any walls or fences which are within the
clear sight triangle are restricted to a height of three feet (3') measured
from the flow line of the gutter. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-5-13: BARRICADES AT ENDS OF PAVEMENT:
A barricade may be required at the end of any street pavement within or at the
limits of a project regardless of the class of street involved or how soon
additional pavement will be placed beyond the current project limits. The only
exception will be where the village public works director determines that the
unpaved portion of the street beyond the project limits has been and will
continue to be open to and used by through traffic. The installation of the
barricade must be shown on the plans and included as part of the street
improvements. The contractor must notify the village public works director
three (3) working days in advance of the placement of any barricade, or
completion of paving in the event a barricade is not required, so that the
village can install proper warning signs as necessary. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-
2007)
7-1-5-14: UTILITY DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
In general, design of communication, electrical, sewer, television and water
utility infrastructure shall conform to applicable titles of this code.
   A.   Construction Times, Limitations:
      1.   Hours Of Construction: Work authorized by a permit shall be
performed between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M., Monday through Friday (except holidays), unless the contractor
obtains written consent from the public works director to do the work earlier
or later than the stated hours or on a weekend or holiday.
      2.   Time Work Authorized; Exceptions: No street cut permit authorized
under this chapter shall be issued so as to allow a street opening or pavement
cut between November 1 and April 30, except in accordance with the following:
         a.   The public works director may issue a permit for a street opening
or pavement cut between November 1 and April 30 if it is determined that
special or unforeseen circumstances require the issuance of the permit or if
the applicant for the permit is a public utility, as determined by the public
works director.
         b.   If the public works director determines that an extension should
be allowed, the applicant may be required to comply with any of the following
additional items:
            (1)   Post an additional sum to pay the cost of cold patching the
cut, maintenance of the cut or possible damage to the public way that may occur
over the winter; or
            (2)   Temporary cold patch the excavation; or
            (3)   Use of other reasonable construction methods which the public
works director determines necessary in order to protect the public way until
the excavation is permanently closed. In addition, any applicant requesting an
extension shall agree to provide a permanent patch or closure for the street
cut the following summer when the ground and weather permit the same. (Ord.
2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6: DRAINAGE DESIGN CRITERIA:
7-1-6-1: GENERAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   The primary objective of drainage design is protection of village
streets and property while minimizing the possible flood damage to surrounding
properties and structures. It should be emphasized that good drainage is one of
the most important factors in street design. It preserves the appearance as
well as the level of service of the street while minimizing maintenance costs.
Water flowing in a roadside ditch shall be diverted away from the street as
quickly as possible. In no case shall water travel in a roadside ditch for a
distance greater than two thousand feet (2,000') or have a flow greater than
ten (10) cubic feet per second with the occurrence of a 50-year, 24-hour
frequency storm.
   B.   All drainage installations shall be designed to permit free,
unobstructed passage of debris and silt or provide for their deflection and/or
collection at a point upstream that will not create an expensive maintenance
problem. Settlement basins shall be provided when a silting problem may exist
downstream. Modification of natural channels or transferring runoff from one
basin to another is not permitted except where no reasonable alternative exists
and where the proposal has been reviewed and approved by the village public
works director.
   C.   A recurring problem on village of Angel Fire streets is ice buildup.
Drainage design shall anticipate areas of potential ice buildup.
   D.   The following criteria must be observed as minimums in street drainage
design:
      1.   Nuisance flows will not be conveyed across arterial or collector
streets on the surface by valley gutters or other means.
      2.   The use of quarter point crown (i.e., high point of crown at mid
lane on high side of street) is preferred over the use of full side hill street
configuration to prevent sheet flow across pavement surfaces.
      3.   Transitional pavement surface approaches to intersections must be
designed to contain nuisance flows within gutter lines; valley gutters must be
provided to accommodate flows across intersection suitably, parallel to the
major traffic carrying street. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-2: STORM RUNOFF ESTIMATES:
   A.   The design engineer shall be responsible for showing all necessary
supporting data and criteria on plans, specifications, or in drainage reports
with respect to flow capacities, structural soundness, public safety, etc.
   B.   For purposes of hydrological studies and design, the design engineer
shall utilize methods and procedures as outlined by the latest edition of the
New Mexico department of transportation department hydrology manual, latest
edition. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-3: CULVERTS:
   A.   Culverts under all streets shall be designed to accommodate a 50-year,
24-hour frequency storm runoff utilizing the maximum available head. The
maximum available head shall be determined by the uppermost ponding elevation
chosen to prevent flood damage to upstream properties.
   B.   Culverts shall be located at each natural draw or watercourse as
conditions warrant to prevent excessive accumulation of flow in roadside
ditches or along the toe of slopes. Draws and watercourses shall be cleared of
debris for a distance of one hundred feet (100') upstream from all culvert
inlets and designed with provisions accounting for increases in flow velocity
and erosion potential.
   C.   Inverts at the inlet shall be slightly elevated above the normal flow
line in steep or natural draws to avoid plugging by debris. Inlets shall not be
elevated in those instances where ponding or accumulation of backwater curves
would be objectionable (stagnation, irrigation ditches, etc.). The culvert
shall slope downward in the direction of natural flow and be designed to be
self-cleaning whenever possible. The outlet shall be designed not to discharge
on unprotected fills or unstable material or at adverse angles to streams or
open channels. Headwall, riprap or other means of protection are required at
inlets or outlets where erosion might occur.
   D.   Velocities of flow in culverts shall be calculated using acceptable
design charts of formulas. Where the Manning equation is used, the following
"n" values will apply:
   TABLE 7-F
 
Material                  Manning Equation "n" Values
Corrugated steel pipe           0.024
Reinforced concrete pipe        0.013
Concrete                        0.013 to 0.020
Asphalt                         0.016
 
   E.   Minimum diameter for round pipe shall be eighteen inches (18"). The
minimum rise for elliptical or arch pipes shall be twelve inches (12"). All
pipes shall have end sections placed on the inlet and outlet end of the pipe.
   F.   When a battery of pipes is used, a clear spacing of one-half (1/2) the
pipe diameter (1 foot minimum, 4 foot maximum) must be provided between the
pipe end sections. Minimum and maximum cover, pipe metal gauge, and strength
classification shall be as specified by the manufacturer.
   G.   Cleanout access shall be provided at least every two hundred feet
(200') for pipes twenty four inches (24") in diameter or less and at least
every four hundred feet (400') for larger pipes. Cleanout access shall also be
provided at each angle point and at each change in grade.
   H.   Inlets and other facilities draining the street surface shall
accommodate the 50-year, 24-hour frequency storm runoff. All streets shall
remain free of ponding during the 50-year, 24-hour frequency storm. (Ord. 2007-
06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-4: INLET STRUCTURES:
   A.   Curb openings with protection bars are preferred.
   B.   Drainage grates shall have openings narrow enough and short enough to
ensure that bicycle tires will not drop into the grates. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-
2007)
7-1-6-5: DETENTION PONDS:
   A.   All detention ponds shall be designed to hold the 100-year, 24-hour
frequency storm runoff.
   B.   All ponds shall have a designated overflow spillway. The overflow
spillway shall, as a minimum, be capable of safely discharging the peak runoff
entering the facility from a 100-year, 24-hour frequency design storm.
   C.   All water containment structures, which have water open to the air,
shall empty within seventy two (72) hours either through percolation into the
soil or through outlet structures designed to ensure a controlled release of
water that is not in excess of the flows predevelopment.
   D.   Ponding areas used in drainage facilities shall be landscaped. At a
minimum, the landscaping shall consist of sod or other vegetation for the
slopes and of a rock lined bottom. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-6: OPEN CHANNELS AND DITCHES:
   A.   Channels and ditches shall be designed to avoid roadside safety
hazards. The minimum flow line slope shall be 0.75 percent. The maximum
permissible velocity should prevent undue scouring of the finer materials
silting downstream and in no case should exceed five feet (5') per second.
   B.   Appropriate erosion control devices such as riprap, gabions, seeding
and mulch, asphalt and concrete must be provided as a lining to all channels
and ditches specifically designated for the purpose of conveying storm water
runoff. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-7: DIP SECTIONS:
   A.   Arterial, collector and sole access streets to subdivisions may not
employ at grade or dip section crossings of arroyos and other natural
drainageways. Channel crossings structures shall be provided on all arterial
and collector streets to safely pass the 50-year, 24-hour frequency storm.
   B.   Streets other than arterial, collector and sole access streets to major
subdivisions may cross major arroyos and other watercourses by means of a dip
section or overflow section, provided that depth times velocity (with velocity
calculated as the average velocity measured in feet per second and depth
measured in feet at the upstream edge of the roadway including sidewalk, if
applicable) does not exceed 6.5 for that portion of the 10-year design storm
runoff crossing the street. However, the depth of flow shall not be greater
than 0.67 feet for urban or rural streets.
   C.   Where feasible, temporary crossings shall be designed so they may be
incorporated into the future permanent crossing structure and so that they meet
street design standards established by the village public works director.
If dip sections are permitted, vertical alignment must satisfy the requirements
given for sight distances considering the design speed of the street in
question.
   D.   Special design provisions for protection of the roadway may be required
by the village public works director. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-8: SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE:
   A.   Subgrades subject to poor drainage, underground seepage or a high water
table shall be adequately drained for roadbed stabilization. Drains shall be
installed to prevent the high ground water level from coming within four (4)
vertical feet of the bottom of the roadway pavement. Perforated pipe shall be
used to carry away collected water. French drains that contain no pipe are
unacceptable. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-6-9: STORM WATER QUALITY PROTECTION:
   A.   Construction Phase Storm Water Quality Protection: For all
construction, development and redevelopment projects with land disturbances
equal to or greater than one acre, including sites which disturb less than one
acre but are part of a larger common plan of development, a storm water
pollution prevention plan in accordance with EPA and NPDES phase II regulations
for construction site storm water runoff control and certification that a
notice of intent has been submitted to the EPA shall be submitted to the
village public works director, prior to construction. This requirement is in
addition to any other provisions of this chapter that may apply.
   B.   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan: The storm water pollution
prevention plan shall outline the BMPs to be undertaken by the operator/owner
of the project storm water quality during the construction phase of the
project. These BMPs shall be maintained by the owner of the property.
Inspection of these BMPs shall be made at a minimum once a week by the owner,
and a log of this inspection shall be kept on site for review by the village
public works director. The village shall also inspect these BMPs on a periodic
basis. These BMPs shall be subject to the approval of the village public works
director.
   C.   Postconstruction Storm Water Quality Protection: For all development
and redevelopment projects with land disturbances equal to or greater than one
acre, including sites which disturb less than one acre but are part of a larger
common plan of development, that discharge into the village's storm drainage
system, within the urbanized area of the village, postconstruction water
quality BMPs are required. This requirement is in addition to any other
requirements that may apply. These BMPs shall be subject to the approval of the
village public works director.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Maintenance of storm water quality control
facilities is the responsibility of the property owner up to the point where
storm water enters public facilities. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-2007)
7-1-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It is unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or use any
structure or to use any land in violation of this chapter.
   B.   Any person violating any portion of these regulations is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon receiving conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in this code for each offense. Each day during which such illegal
construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or use continues shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   In addition or as an alternative to such fine and/or imprisonment, the
village may seek other remedies provided in law or equity including, but not
limited to, damages, injunction, mandamus or abatement. (Ord. 2007-06, 8-14-
2007)
CHAPTER 2
RIGHT OF WAY ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Permit And Compliance Required
7-2-4: Security Deposits
7-2-5: Utility Installation Requirements
7-2-6: Restoration Procedures
7-2-7: Traffic Control
7-2-8: Optional Water Meter Installation For New Construction
7-2-9: Violation; Penalties
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define policies and procedures that will
ensure that all trenching, excavating, boring or any other type of encroachment
done in, under or over Angel Fire rights of way is done in a safe manner, and
that once the encroachment is completed, ensures that the right of way is
reconstructed to village specifications. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
CONSTRUCTION: New construction, reconstruction, alteration, excavation, boring,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, or work of any kind within the public way which
results in the physical alteration of the public right of way.
CONTRACTOR: A person, partnership, or corporation who is duly registered as a
professional engineer or general contractor according to the New Mexico
statutes, who is hired by the landowner, developer, or utility company and is
empowered to act as his agent.
DRIVEWAY: A private access road used by persons residing, employed, or
otherwise using or visiting the location at which said driveway is located and
enters a public right of way.
EASEMENT: An acquired or granted right from a property owner or developer for
specific use by the general public, a corporation or certain persons.
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT: A permit issued to a private party, corporation, or
utility company for the purpose of excavating a trench, pit, or boring under or
within a village right of way for the installation of utility lines, conduits
or drainage structures.
FLOW LINE: The transition point between the gutter and the face of the curb.
Where no curb exists, the "flow line" will be considered the edge of the
outside traveled lane.
GRADE: The rate or percent of change in slope, either ascending or descending,
from or along the roadway. It is measured along the centerline of the roadway.
GRAVELED ROAD: A roadway that is constructed with compacted subgrade and base
course.
INSPECTOR: The authorized representative of the village public works department
assigned to make detailed inspections for contract performances, standards and
contract compliance.
PAVED ROAD: A roadway that is constructed with compacted subgrade, base course,
and asphalt or chip seal.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land area, property or interest therein, usually a strip,
acquired for or devoted to transportation and/or for utility purposes which are
acquired by the village, county, state, or federal government for public use.
SECURITY DEPOSIT: A security bond, letter of credit, or some other instrument
of financial guarantee of infrastructure improvements.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: The time when the work has progressed to the point
where it is sufficiently complete so that it, or a specified part, can be
utilized for the purpose for which it is intended.
UNIMPROVED ROAD: A right of way which is unimproved, does not meet village
roadway standards and has not been accepted for maintenance by the village.
UTILITY LINE: May include water, wastewater, natural gas, propane gas,
electricity, telephone, television cable, or fiber optic lines.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, New Mexico, a New Mexico municipal
corporation. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-3: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than an officer or employee of the village in the course of his
employment, to make, cause or permit any construction in, on, under or within a
village right of way unless such person shall have first obtained an
encroachment permit from the village public works department and unless such
construction is performed in conformity with the permits and the terms and
provisions of this chapter. Encroachment permits are required for, but not
limited to, the following types of construction activities:
      1.   Utility installation.
      2.   Driveways.
      3.   Parking pads or structures contiguous to the right of way.
      4.   Drainage structures.
   B.   Penalty: Any work done in a village right of way or easement without an
approved encroachment permit will be subject to the provisions of section
7-2-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Emergency Exemptions: The electric power company and the telephone
company holding franchise agreements with the village are exempted from this
provision in emergency situations where public health, safety, or welfare is at
risk. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-4: SECURITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   Types Of Deposits: In addition to a permit fee, the applicant shall
make a security deposit sufficient to ensure that the roadway is repaired to
preconstruction condition. Security deposits may be made by irrevocable letter
of credit, performance bond, cash deposit, cashier's check, or other acceptable
security approved by the finance department and in the amount determined by the
village fee schedule. Subsection C of this section shall be used to determine
the amount to be deposited with the village prior to the issuance of a
development permit, building permit or encroachment permit.
   B.   Deposit Hold Time: The period of time that the village will hold the
security deposit will be a function of the type of road upon which the
construction was done.
      1.   Paved Road: The security deposit will be held for twelve (12) months
from the date of substantial completion of work covered by the encroachment
permit. Paved roadway work also includes curb and gutter, sidewalks, driveway
aprons, and valve collars.
      2.   Gravel Road: The security deposit will be held for six (6) months
from the date of substantial completion of work covered by the encroachment
permit.
      3.   Unimproved Road And/Or Easements: The security deposit will be held
for three (3) months from the date of substantial completion.
   C.   Terms Of Security Deposit:
      1.   Public Utilities: Any public utility operating within the village
may, at its option, elect to make a one time performance deposit to apply to
all utility installations within the village and submit a letter of performance
on road restoration in accordance with the provisions of this chapter that is
acceptable to the village administrator.
      2.   Refund Of Deposits: The public works director shall be contacted to
inspect the right of way restoration work prior to work beginning. At the end
of the deposit hold time, a final inspection will be performed by the public
works director to determine that the quality of the work is still acceptable.
He will then authorize the refund of the security deposit unless the work has
not been completed to village specifications. If the contractor completes all
construction activities without call for appropriate inspections, the public
works director may order the security deposit be held for an additional period
of time to determine acceptability of the work performed.
      3.   Deficiency Of Deposit Demand: If, after issuance of a right of way
encroachment permit, a deposit is determined to be less than sufficient to pay
all restoration costs, the contractor shall pay the village an amount equal to
the deficiency as determined by reference to the village fee schedule.
      4.   Failure To Perform: If the contractor fails or refuses to complete
or correct any deficiencies noted by the village, the village may initiate
legal action to recover the amount of money necessary to complete the
restoration work. Until the restoration deficiencies are corrected or monies to
finish all restoration are paid, no subsequent or additional permits shall be
issued to the contractor. The remedies herein are in the alternative and are
not exclusive.
   D.   Deposit Formulas: The security deposit for all encroachment work done
in village rights of way or easements will be set by village resolution and
will be based on type of construction.
      1.   Paved roads: Cubic foot of excavated materials.
      2.   Gravel roads: Cubic foot of excavated materials.
      3.   Unimproved roads and utility easements: Cubic foot of excavated
materials.
      4.   Curb and gutter: Linear foot.
      5.   Sidewalks, driveway aprons, landscaping: Square yard.
      6.   Right of way or other major control monuments: Actual cost by
licensed surveyor.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions: The electric power company and the
telephone company holding franchise agreements with the village are exempt from
this section where the franchise agreements have existing provisions to
guarantee work performed in the village right of way. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-5: UTILITY INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
Utility installations are to be coordinated among each utility company to
ensure that roadway surface penetrations are minimized. When a first
penetration is required for a given right of way segment, all utilities able to
use that penetration for current or subsequent utility requirements shall do
so, thereby preventing the need for future penetrations in that right of way
segment.
   A.   The village requires that all utility lines must be located prior to
any excavation or boring as per New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 63,
article 14.
   B.   All utility installations must be performed by a licensed contractor
and installed according to federal, state and local codes.
   C.   The clustering of electric meters is prohibited within the village
rights of way or in single-family residential areas. "Clustering" is defined as
three (3) or more electric meters either individually installed or ganged. One
duplex or 2-gang electric meter pedestal is acceptable.
   D.   Contractors responsible for construction activities necessitating
initial right of way encroachment shall cause that required coordination and
subsequent utility installations be executed.
   E.   The director of the department of public works shall review and approve
coordinated utility installation plans required by this chapter. (Ord. 2002-01,
1-17-2002)
   F.   Telephone and television cables laid in village rights of way shall be
buried a minimum of thirty inches (30") below the ground where said wires are
proposed to be located. (Ord. 2006-02, 1-19-2006)
7-2-6: RESTORATION PROCEDURES:
All restoration of permitted right of way or easement encroachments shall be
done in accordance with the following guidelines:
   A.   Excavated material may be replaced in the trench so long as it does not
contain any vegetative material and the moisture content is sufficient and not
excessive so as to obtain optimum compaction. Backfill must be in lifts of no
more than eight inches (8") to twelve inches (12").
   B.   In all paved roads, the subgrade must be compacted in lifts of no more
than eight inches (8") to twelve inches (12"). The last six inches (6") of fill
must be compacted base course, and the final six inches (6") shall be asphalt
or concrete of an approved mix design.
   C.   In all improved gravel roads, the subgrade must be compacted in no more
than eight inch (8") to twelve inch (12") lifts, and the last six inches (6")
must be compacted base course.
   D.   All material excavated from the encroachment and not replaced in the
trench must be removed from the site so as not to leave any nonbase course,
asphalt, or concrete material on top of the roadway.
   E.   Final grade and smoothness shall be consistent with village road
standards and be approved by the department of public works inspection. (Ord.
2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Traffic control shall be the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work and shall provide for the safety of the traveling public and work site
personnel. One lane of traffic shall remain open at all times. In the event
that road closure is absolutely necessary, twenty four (24) hour advance notice
shall be given to the public works department, police department, and fire and
EMS departments. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002)
7-2-8: OPTIONAL WATER METER INSTALLATION FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION:
Requirements for contractors to install their own water meter shall be as
follows:
   A.   General contractors must provide a copy of current license and
insurance for each installation before installation can begin.
   B.   Plumbing contractors must provide a copy of their current license and
insurance for each installation before installation can begin.
   C.   Excavators must provide a copy of their current license and insurance
for each installation before excavation can begin.
   D.   Contractor or Home Owner must request the option to install their own
water meter service at the time of the application. The Village of Angel Fire
Water Department will provide a meter can and installation instruction upon
request. A deposit of five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be required. The
Utility Billing Division will hold deposit until all inspections are completed
and approved. In the event that the meter can is backfilled prior to inspection
by the Village of Angel Fire Water Department, deposit will be held for a
period of one year after the date of permanent certificate of occupancy.
   E.   Warranty; Contract shall warranty all work associated with meter
installation for one year, from the date of final inspection of installation
and back fill/compaction,
   F.   Contractor is responsible for utility locate call.
      1.   General contractor is responsible for any utilities hit or broken.
      2.   If a water line is broken, the general contractor will be assessed
the cost of repair and cost of water loss.
   G.   The use of wet taps is prohibited.
   H.   Galvanized pipe and fittings are prohibited.
   I.   Installation must be inspected by the Angel Fire Water Department prior
to backfill and compaction. The Village of Angel Fire Water Department has two
(2) working days from the time of the request is called in to inspect.
Inspections will be performed Monday through Friday between the hours of seven
thirty o’clock (7:30) A.M. and three o’clock (3:00) P.M. There will be no
charge for the initial installation inspection or Back fill inspection. There
will be an additional fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
reinspection. These fees are nonrefundable. Water meter will be installed on
the meter can by Water Department personnel once all the inspections are
completed and approved. (Ord. 2004-06, 7-15-2004, eff. 7-21-2004; amd. Ord.
2022-06, 4-26-2022)
7-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this chapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon receiving a conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day during which such illegal
construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or use continues shall
be deemed a separate offense. In addition, or as an alternative to such fine
and/or imprisonment, the village may seek other remedies provided in law or
equity including, but not limited to, damages, injunctions, mandamus, or
abatement. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2004-06, 7-15-2004,
eff. 7-21-2004)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3-2: Connection To Public Water System; Use Of Private Wells
7-3-3: Deposits Required
7-3-4: Metered Water Required; Separate Meters
7-3-5: Water Rates And Charges Established
7-3-6: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
7-3-7: Repairs To Service Pipes And Plumbing
7-3-8: Damage To Water System
7-3-9: Diversion Of Water
7-3-10: Water Conservation
7-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter is applicable to all general metered service. Service will be
furnished in accordance with the stipulations of this chapter and in accordance
with village ordinances, and this applies to all customers located within the
village, including Monte Verde V Subdivision. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
7-3-2: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS:
   A.   Authority; Purpose: This section is adopted pursuant to the authority
of the village granted in chapter 3, articles 27 and 53 of the New Mexico
Statutes Annotated 1
   B.   Connection To Public System And Compliance Required: Upon completion of
the village water system line installation, designed and engineered to serve a
parcel of land within the village, the property owner of such parcel of land
who develops the parcel for residential or commercial purposes shall connect to
the system within six (6) months of such completion. Connections must comply
with all applicable rules and regulations of the village municipal water
utility.
   C.   Use Of Existing Private Wells:
      1.   Property Connecting To Public System: A property owner with an
existing private well on a developed parcel of land who connects to the village
municipal water system may continue to utilize an existing private well for
watering outdoor landscaping. Private wells shall not be connected to the
village municipal water system. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   D.   Penalties: The penalties for any violation of this section shall be as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such violation continues to exist shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
 
Notes
  1. NMSA §§ 3-27-4, 3-53-1, 3-53-2.1 to operate a water service utility, to
  assess reasonable rates and charges for water services provided by the
1 utility, to regulate the use of wells, and to preserve the health, safety,
  and welfare of the village and the quality of the water utility service to
  the village for the benefit of the village community.
7-3-3: DEPOSITS REQUIRED:
The following deposits shall be paid by the applicant for water and/or sewer
service 1
   A.   Owner occupied residential property shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
upon showing proof of ownership.
   B.   Nonowner occupied residential and commercial property shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
 
Notes
  1. See chapter 4 of this title.1 at the time of application for service, for
1 the purpose of a guarantee of payment of accounts and damages to service
  connections or meters:
7-3-4: METERED WATER REQUIRED; SEPARATE METERS:
The water supply system shall be operated on a completely metered basis. Every
separate building shall have a separate connection to the water facilities of
the village, and a separate meter shall be used for each such building. A
"building", for the purpose of this chapter, is defined as:
   A.   Single-family residential structures, including mobile homes used for
residential purposes. A residential structure includes those ancillary
structures immediately, normally and typically surrounding a single-family
residential structure (i.e., garage, storage shed, etc.).
   B.   Business or commercial structure. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
7-3-5: WATER RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   General Metered Service:
      1.   Monthly Minimum Charge: The monthly minimum charges for within and
outside village limits will be established by resolution.
      2.   Monthly Quantity Charge: The monthly quantity charge for within and
outside village limits will be established by resolution.
   B.   Meter Installation Charges:
      1.   Each customer requesting installation of metered service at his
premises shall pay a charge in connection with installation of the water meter
to be determined by resolution.
      2.   The installation charges for all meters are based on the existence
of a service line at the customer's property line. In the case where the
property owner and/or his designee has destroyed the service line locator wire,
or in cases where the service line has not been extended to the property line,
the customer will pay for the additional cost to extend a new service line from
the main water line to the property line. This additional cost will include the
cost of materials, labor, equipment, road restoration and any other related
costs.
      3.   Because of the difficulties associated with installing water meters
during winter conditions, water meters will be installed, weather permitting.
Wet taps relative to adverse winter conditions will not be done after November
1. However, applications will be accepted but not processed until April 15.
Upon acceptance the installation will be scheduled as per the application date.
   C.   Fire Suppression Systems: The customer shall pay for the meter
installation as described under subsection B of this section. No monthly fees
will be charged for fire suppression systems unless water usage occurs.
   D.   Disconnect And Reconnect Charges:
      1.   Disconnect Charge:
         a.   If a customer makes application to the village to disconnect or
discontinue water service, or the customer has failed to comply with the
provisions pertaining to payment of bills and the due dates, the village is
authorized to charge a fifty dollar ($50.00) service charge to disconnect water
service at the meter, if such disconnect occurs Monday through Friday, eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
         b.   In the event service is not disconnected at the meter, the fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee shall be refundable to the customer making application to
disconnect service.
      2.   Reconnect Charge:
         a.   If a customer makes application to the village to restore water
service previously disconnected at the same premises, the village is authorized
to charge a fifty dollar ($50.00) service fee to reconnect water service at the
meter, if such reconnection occurs Monday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
         b.   In the event service is not reconnected at the meter, the fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee shall be refunded to the customer making application to
reconnect service.
         c.   In the case of customer requested connections, no reconnections
will be performed without the homeowner or his designee being present.
      3.   Shutoff Of Water; Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment Of
Charges:
         a.   The village may cause water service to be disconnected and may
discontinue service to the service unit if any charge provided herein remains
unpaid thirty (30) days after the date of mailing the monthly bill. In no case
shall service to a customer who has not paid charges and penalties due be
continued beyond sixty (60) days after the date on which the original unpaid
bill was mailed unless such continuance is approved in writing by the village.
When shut off, water shall not be turned on again except upon the full payment
of the following arrearages, fees, penalties, interest and deposits:
            (1)   All water and/or sewer charges then due and owing, including
all applicable taxes, interest and late fees.
            (2)   All penalties, diversion, repair, or damage charges.
            (3)   A disconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (4)   A reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
         b.   Customer requests for disconnect or reconnection of service shall
be performed Monday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M., for a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per occurrence. Requests for
disconnect or reconnection of service made outside of those times, will be
assessed a fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00). No reconnects or disconnects
will be performed on national holidays or between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., without the approval of the
administrator or his designee.
      4.   Unauthorized Reconnection Of Service:
         a.   In the event that any owner shall succeed in connecting service
after said service was disconnected for nonpayment, upon discovery of such
event, a charge shall be rendered to the owner based upon a fair estimation of
the water used and an additional charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Failure of such owner to pay such charges shall result in termination of
service.
         b.   The village shall have the right to take such steps as are
necessary to prevent the connection of service, including going upon the
premises, where such connection is occurring and taking whatever steps are
necessary to terminate such connection.
         c.   The provisions of this subsection are intended to afford an
additional method of enforcing payment of charges for water service furnished
by the village permitted by law including New Mexico Statutes Annotated section
3-23-6 (lien against property served). (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
   E.   Water Availability Fee:
      1.   Monthly Fee; Exemption: Each person or entity having water service
to his lot, tract, or parcel shall pay a monthly water availability fee
established by resolution. If a person or entity has more than one lot, tract
or parcel, the person or entity shall pay the water availability fee for each
lot, tract, or parcel. No charge shall be made on any lot, tract, or parcel
where there is general metered service being billed at the lot, tract, or
parcel. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Rendition Of Bill: The bill for the water availability fee shall be
billed quarterly or semiannually in arrears. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
      3.   Annual Rate Adjustment: Effective each year on July 1, water rates
will be adjusted the amount indicated by the CPI report, water and sewerage
maintenance, for the end of the previous calendar year. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-
2013)
   F.   Returned Check Fee: All returned checks will result in an additional
service charge of forty dollars ($40.00) per returned check to be due
immediately.
   G.   Surcharge:
      1.   Purpose; Surcharge Authorized: To provide money for the payment of
debt service on the bonds and to pay the cost of collection and administration
of the water surcharge, a water surcharge shall be established annually by the
village administration in an amount sufficient to pay one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the debt service coming due on the bonds in the succeeding fiscal
year based on the water usage and collections in the village for the preceding
fiscal year.
      2.   Amount Of Surcharge:
         a.   The precise amount of the water surcharge shall be established
annually in July of each year by the village administration and shall be
included on the August statements sent each year. The precise amount of the
water surcharge will be established as an administrative function by the
village administration and shall not require approval by the village council.
         b.   The precise amount of the water surcharge will vary from year to
year so that sufficient amounts can be collected to pay all debt service on the
bonds coming due in each fiscal year. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
         c.   The water surcharge shall be based on consumption for commercial,
residential and multi-family users computed utilizing the monthly minimum water
meter gallon allowance or actual consumption, whichever is higher. For water
availability users, to include fire protection, the water surcharge shall be
based on a presumed consumption of four thousand (4,000) gallons per month (the
presumed consumption may be adjusted in the future by the village
administration). (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      3.   Surcharges Billed: The water surcharge will be billed as a separate
item on the regular water and sewer utility statements sent to users of the
village water and sewer system.
      4.   Lien To Secure Payment: Payment of the water surcharge due shall be
secured by a lien upon such premises to which the water service was provided or
was made available. The village shall be authorized to file a lien against real
property which has received water or had water service available and on which
the water surcharge is delinquent. The lien is subject to foreclosure in order
to satisfy the account, costs incurred and attorney fees.
      5.   Disposition Of Revenues: The proceeds derived from the water
surcharge shall be used solely for the purpose of paying debt service on the
bonds and to pay costs to the village of collecting and administering the water
surcharge, such costs not to exceed five percent (5%) of the total collections
of the water surcharge in the preceding fiscal year.
      6.   Excess Revenues: Any amounts in excess of the debt service and costs
for the preceding fiscal year shall be taken into account by the village
administration in establishing the precise amount of the water surcharge
required to make the next two (2) succeeding payments on the bonds.
      7.   Application Of Other Provisions: All provisions of the village water
rate ordinance, as it may be amended in the future, governing imposition,
collection and enforcement of water system charges, are hereby incorporated in
this section and shall be applicable to imposition, collection and enforcement
of the water surcharge to the extent consistent with this section. (Ord. 2011-
02, 1-11-2011)
   H.   Adjustment In Rates And Charges:
      1.   Annual Rate Adjustment: Effective each year on July 1, water rates
will be adjusted the amount indicated on the CPI report for the end of the
previous calendar year. The next CPI adjustment will become effective on July
1, 2003. (Ord. 2013-08, 10-1-2013)
      2.   Tax Adjustments: Billings under this schedule may be increased by an
amount equal to the sum of the taxes payable under the gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.1 and of all other taxes, fees or charges (exclusive of
  ad valorem, state and federal income taxes) payable by the utility and levied or
1 assessed by any governmental authority on the public utility service rendered,
  or on the right or privilege of rendering the service, or on any object or event
  incidental to the rendition of the service. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
7-3-6: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Payment Due: All bills are net and payable within twenty (20) days from
the date of the bill.
   B.   Penalty: The village shall impose a monthly penalty assessment of one
and one-fourth percent (1.25%) on the twenty first day following each monthly
billing for those accounts that are not paid in full.
   C.   Lien:
      1.   Lien To Secure Payment; Foreclosure: Payment of the charges due for
water service shall be secured by a lien upon such premises to which the
services were provided. The village shall be authorized to file a lien against
real property which has received water services and on which the charges are
delinquent. This lien is subject to foreclosure in order to satisfy the
account, costs incurred and attorney fees.
      2.   Notice Of Lien: The village shall send a thirty (30) day notice of
intent to file a lien containing the following information:
         a.   The name of the owner, if known, of the parcel of real estate
being assessed.
         b.   A description of the parcel of real estate being assessed.
         c.   The amount assessed against each parcel of real estate.
      3.   Appeals: Any persons aggrieved by the decision of the village may
submit written petition for appeal. Such petition for appeal shall:
         a.   Be submitted to the office of the finance director within thirty
(30) days of the date of lien notice.
         b.   Set forth that such proceedings or assessments were in error, in
whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the appeal. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-
2011)
7-3-7: REPAIRS TO SERVICE PIPES AND PLUMBING:
All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings shall be made
by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served. The village may, in
case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and if this is done, the cost
of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by the owner of the premises
served. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
7-3-8: DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM:
Any intentional damage occurring to village meters or utility equipment shall
be paid for by the user or owner of the property upon which damages occur,
including the cost of labor, parts and materials. No utility service shall be
reconnected until said charges are paid in full to the village. (Ord. 2011-02,
1-11-2011)
7-3-9: DIVERSION OF WATER:
   A.   Diversion Prohibited: Water service under this schedule shall not be
resold or shared with others.
   B.   Charges For Diverted Water Estimated: In the event that any owner shall
succeed in diverting water from the village water system without paying
therefor, upon discovery of such event, a charge shall be rendered to such
owner based upon a fair estimation of the water diverted. A failure of such
owner to pay such charges shall result in termination of service.
   C.   Enforcement: The village shall have the right to take such steps as are
necessary to prevent the diversion of water including going upon the premises
where such diversion is occurring and taking whatever steps are necessary to
terminate such diversion. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-11-2011)
7-3-10: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to ensure that the village
water system always has a sufficient volume of water to meet requirements for
fire protection and other commercial and domestic water needs for the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   Definitions:
    CLEANING OUTDOOR HARD SURFACES: The washing of sidewalks, driveways,
filling station aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces.
   DEFECTIVE PLUMBING: The escape of water through defective plumbing, which
shall mean the knowing permission for defective plumbing to remain out of
repair.
   OUTDOOR WATERING: The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery,
trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, flowers or any
other vegetation.
   C.   Emergency Situations:
      1.   Authority To Proclaim Emergency: Whenever an emergency exists by
reason of a shortage of water due to inadequate supply, limited treatment of
distribution capacity or failure of equipment or materials, and that the
village water system is unable to or will, within thirty (30) days, become
unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof,
including adequate fire protection as determined by the water department, the
governing body is authorized to restrict or prohibit the use of the water from
the village water system by emergency proclamation.
      2.   Issuance Of Proclamation: Upon the determination that a water
shortage emergency exists, the governing body shall issue a proclamation
declaring the emergency and setting out an order restricting use of water from
the village system. Depending on the severity and duration of the water
shortage, restrictions and prohibitions shall be tiered on four (4) levels:
         a.   Level one, green flag: Water levels are marginally adequate but,
without voluntary measures, are anticipated to drop below the critical level.
         b.   Level two, blue flag:
            (1)   Two (2) days per week outdoor watering restrictions. Odd
street addresses are allowed outdoor watering on Wednesdays and Saturdays; even
street addresses are allowed outdoor watering on Thursdays and Sundays. Outdoor
watering on designated days shall only be allowed between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
            (2)   Planting of new sod or turf is not recommended.
            (3)   The filling of hot tubs is not recommended.
            (4)   Water is not allowed to run unattended or to run off property
in a wasteful manner.
            (5)   Cleaning of outdoor hard surfaces (streets, driveways,
sidewalks, buildings) is prohibited.
            (6)   Vehicle washing is discouraged and prohibited for fundraising
events.
         c.   Level three, yellow flag:
            (1)   One day per week permitted outdoor watering restrictions. Odd
street addresses are allowed outdoor watering on Saturdays, and even street
addresses are allowed outdoor watering on Sundays. Outdoor watering on
designated days shall only be allowed between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
            (2)   The planting of all new outdoor landscaping is prohibited.
            (3)   The filling of hot tubs is not recommended.
            (4)   Water is not allowed to run unattended or to run off property
in a wasteful manner.
            (5)   Cleaning of outdoor hard surfaces (streets, driveways,
sidewalks, buildings) is prohibited.
            (6)   Vehicle washing is prohibited.
         d.   Level four, red flag:
            (1)   All outdoor uses of water are prohibited.
            (2)   The planting of all new outdoor landscaping is prohibited.
            (3)   Residents and visitors are requested to curtail as much
indoor water use as possible.
            (4)   The filling of uncovered earthen water storage reservoirs and
similar facilities is prohibited.
      3.   Publication And Posting Proclamation:
         a.   The proclamation required by subsection C1 of this section shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village, or if there
is no such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty
four (24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a
copy of the proclamation in seven (7) prominent places in the village and
publish as soon as possible in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village. The emergency shall be in full force and effect upon publication.
Substantial compliance with this subsection is sufficient to effect the
emergency.
         b.   Subsequent to initial posting of the proclamation, the specific
level of the emergency shall be posted daily in front of the village hall at
3388 Highway 434 by use of a colored flag corresponding to the level of the
emergency as described in subsection C2 of this section.
      4.   Duration Of Emergency: A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue
and terms of the proclamation shall be in force until such time as the
governing body shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency
has ended.
   D.   Nonemergency Conservation Measures:
      1.   Residential Buildings: All new residential construction, remodeling,
and fixture and appliance replacement shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Low flow toilets: One and six-tenths (1.6) gallons/flush or less.
         b.   Low flow shower heads: Two and five-tenths (2.5) gallons per
minute (gpm) flow or less.
         c.   Low flow faucets.
         d.   Automatic dishwashers using less than thirteen (13) gallons/cycle
or less.
         e.   Cutoff valves for showerheads.
         f.   Kitchen faucet aerator shutoffs or steam/spray aerators.
         g.   Low flow clothes washing machines; no more than forty three (43)
gallons in regular cycle, and reduced water level adjustments for reduced
loads.
      2.   Commercial Buildings: All new commercial construction, remodeling,
and fixture and appliance replacement have the same requirements as residential
where applicable, along with the following requirements:
         a.   Public restroom faucets shall be limited to two and five- tenths
(2.5) gallons per minute flow or less.
         b.   Automatic shutoff valve for public restroom faucets.
         c.   Public showers shall be equipped with self-closing valves.
         d.   Recirculating lines on hot water lines with over one hundred feet
(100') development length between heater and fixture.
         e.   Automatic flush valves (flushometers).
         f.   Submittal of a water conservation plan for uses other than
bathrooms.
      3.   Defective Plumbing: All defective plumbing shall be repaired and
subsequently maintained in good working order.
      4.   Information To Contractors And Realtors: The information in this
subsection will be provided to all contractors and real estate offices for
delivery to new owners.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to those businesses and industries declared by resolution of the village
to be necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   F.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Violation: Any person who, in any manner, directly or indirectly
violates or permits others under his supervision, custody or control to violate
any term of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each separate day of water use in violation of such proclamation shall
constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense and each separate
prohibited use on the same day shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Penalties: First violation will receive a warning; second violation
will receive a citation with a fine up to, but not more than, twenty five
dollars ($25.00); third and subsequent violations will receive a citation with
a fine up to, but not more than, five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2011-02,
1-11-2011)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Connection To Public System; Requirements
7-4-2: Sewer Rates Established
7-4-3: Adjustment In Rates And Charges; Returned Check Fee
7-4-4: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
7-4-5: Shutoff Policy; Discontinuance Of Water And Sewer Service For Unpaid
Charges
7-4-6: Repairs To Service Pipes And Plumbing
7-4-7: Damage To Sewer System
7-4-8: Diversion Of Sewage Prohibited
7-4-9: Grease/Sand Traps Requirements
7-4-10: Penalties And Remedies
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-3-3 of this title.1
7-4-1: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM; REQUIREMENTS 1
   A.   Connection Required: Upon completion of sewer line installation
designed and engineered to serve a specific developed parcel of land within the
village, the property owner of such developed parcel of land shall connect to
the system within six (6) months of such completion.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of subsection A of this section are not
applicable to any property owner with an existing advanced septic system that
meets current village and state codes and requirements and whose existing
system would require the utilization of an E/One grinder pump to be connected
to a force main sewer line of the municipal sewer utility unless and until such
time as the property owner's septic system fails to meet village and/or state
codes and requirements or the property owner chooses to connect to the
municipal sewer utility. In either case, the costs of conversion to connect to
the municipal sewer utility shall be the sole responsibility of the property
owner and neither the municipal sewer utility nor the village shall have any
financial responsibility for the conversion from the property owner's septic
system to connect to the municipal sewer utility.
   C.   Connection Specifications: Connections must comply with all applicable
rules and regulations of the municipal sewer utility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Private System: Within thirty (30) days after connection
to the municipal sewer utility for any parcel of land, its property owner shall
abandon any existing septic tank on the parcel of land in accordance with
applicable laws, rules and regulations.
   E.   Penalties: The penalties for any violation of this section shall be as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such violation continues to exist shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 2014-03, 9-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 8-1-3 of this code.2:
7-4-2: SEWER RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Rate No. 1 - Sewer Usage Rates:
      1.   Applicability: Sewer usage rates are applicable to all sewer
customers once they connect onto the sewer line for service and are general
metered water customers located within and outside the village.
      2.   Monthly Minimum Charge: Monthly minimum charges within and outside
the village limits will be established by resolution.
      3.   Monthly Quantity Charge: Monthly quantity charges will be
established by resolution. (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
   B.   Rate No. 2 - Sewer Availability Fees:
      1.   Applicability: Sewer availability fees are applicable to all lots,
tracts, and parcels located within the village which have sewer mains passing
by the lot, and sewer service can be provided.
      2.   Monthly Charge: Each person having sewer service available to his
lot, tract, or parcel shall pay a sewer availability fee established by
resolution. If a person or entity has more than one lot, tract, or parcel, the
person or entity shall pay the sewer availability fee for each lot, tract, or
parcel. No charge shall be made on any lot, tract or parcel once the person
becomes a general metered water customer and is being billed for sewer usage
fees (rate no. 1).
      3.   Rendition Of Bill: The bill for the sewer availability fee shall be
for a six (6) month period in advance.
      4.   Annual Rate Adjustment: Effective each year on July 1, water rates
will be adjusted the amount indicated by the CPI report, water and sewerage
maintenance, for the end of the previous calendar year. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-
2013)
   C.   Rate No. 3 - Sewer Tap Fees:
      1.   Applicability: Sewer tap fees are applicable to all lots, tracts,
and parcels located within the village whose owners desire to hook onto the
central sewage system.
      2.   Responsibilities Of Customers:
         a.   The customer is responsible for the extension of the sewer
service line from the utility's service line stub (which is extended outside of
the roadway surface near the property line) to the customer's structure.
         b.   The customer is responsible for the maintenance of the sewer
service line from the main sewer line to the structure.
         c.   In cases where the property owner and/or his designee has
destroyed the service line locator wire, or in cases where the service line has
not been extended to the property line, the customer will pay for the
additional cost to extend a new service line from the main sewer line to the
property line. This additional cost will include the cost of materials, labor,
equipment, road restoration and any other related costs.
      3.   Time Restrictions On Sewer Taps: Because of the difficulties
associated with making sewer taps during winter conditions, no sewer taps will
be made after November 1 or before April 15. However, applications will be
accepted but not processed until April 15. Upon acceptance the installation
will be scheduled as per the application date.
      4.   Multiple-Family, Commercial And Industrial Structures: Since tying
into the central system precludes the owner of a multiple- family or a
commercial structure from building an individual sanitary sewage disposal
system, it is in order that a connection charge or a "tap fee" be made at the
time when he connects the building to the central sewage disposal plant.
         a.   Multiple-Family Structures: To be established by resolution.
         b.   Commercial, Institutional And Industrial Enterprises: Schedule of
water use per day, per month, and applicable sewer tap fees for commercial,
institutional, and industrial structures will be established by resolution.
(Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
7-4-3: ADJUSTMENT IN RATES AND CHARGES; RETURNED CHECK FEE:
   A.   Annual Rate Adjustment: Effective each year on July 1, sewer rates will
be adjusted the amount indicated on the CPI report for the end of the previous
calendar year. The first CPI adjustment will become effective on July 1, 2001.
(Ord. 2013-08, 10-1-2013)
   B.   Tax Adjustments: Billings under this chapter may be increased by an
amount equal to the sum of the taxes payable under the gross receipts and
compensating tax act 1
   C.   Returned Checks; Service Charge: All returned checks will result in an
additional service charge of forty dollars ($40.00) per returned check to be
assessed on the account. (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
 
Notes
  1. NMSA § 7-9-1 et seq.1 and of all other taxes, fees or charges (exclusive of
  ad valorem, state and federal income taxes) payable by the utility and levied or
1 assessed by any governmental authority on the public utility service rendered,
  or on the right or privilege of rendering the service, or on any object or event
  incidental to the rendition of the service.
7-4-4: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Payment Due: All bills are net and payable within twenty (20) days from
the date of the bill.
   B.   Penalty: The village shall impose a monthly penalty assessment of one
and one-fourth percent (1.25%) on the twenty first day following each monthly
billing for those accounts that are not paid in full.
   C.   Liens:
      1.   Notice Of Lien: The village shall send a thirty (30) day notice of
intent to file a lien containing the following information:
         a.   The name of the owner, if known, of the parcel of real estate
being assessed.
         b.   A description of the parcel of real estate being assessed.
         c.   The amount assessed against each parcel of real estate.
      2.   Appeals: Any persons aggrieved by the decision of the village may
submit written petition for appeal. Such petition for appeal shall:
         a.   Be submitted to the office of the finance director within thirty
(30) days of the date of lien notice.
         b.   Set forth that such proceedings or assessments were in error, in
whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the appeal. (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-
2011)
7-4-5: SHUTOFF POLICY; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER AND SEWER SERVICE FOR UNPAID
CHARGES:
   A.   The village may cause water service to be disconnected and may
discontinue service to the service unit if any charge provided herein remains
unpaid thirty (30) days after the date of mailing the monthly bill. In no case
shall service to a customer who has not paid charges and penalties due be
continued beyond sixty (60) days after the date on which the original unpaid
bill was mailed unless such continuance is approved in writing by the village.
When shut off, the water and sewer service shall not be turned on again except
upon the full payment of the following arrearages, fees, penalties, interest
and deposits:
      1.   All water and/or sewer charges then due and owing.
      2.   All penalties, interest, diversion, repair, or damage charges.
      3.   A disconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   A reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   The provisions of this section are intended to afford an additional
method of enforcing payment of charges for water and sewer service furnished by
the village permitted by law including New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-
23-6 (lien against property served). (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
7-4-6: REPAIRS TO SERVICE PIPES AND PLUMBING:
All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems or buildings shall be made
by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served. The village may, in
case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and if this is done, the cost
of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by the owner of the premises
served. (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
7-4-7: DAMAGE TO SEWER SYSTEM:
Any intentional damage occurring to village meters or utility equipment shall
be paid for by the user or owner of the property upon which damages occur,
including the cost of labor, parts and materials. No utility service shall be
reconnected until said charges are paid in full to the village. (Ord. 2011-03,
1-11-2011)
7-4-8: DIVERSION OF SEWAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Diversion Prohibited: In the event that any owner shall succeed in
diverting sewage from the village sewer system without paying therefor, upon
discovery of such event, a charge shall be rendered to such owner based upon a
fair estimation of the sewage diverted. A failure of such owner to pay such
charges shall result in termination of service.
   B.   Enforcement: The village shall have the right to take such steps as are
necessary to prevent the diversion of sewage, including going upon the premises
where such diversion is occurring, and taking whatever steps are necessary to
terminate such diversion. (Ord. 2011-03, 1-11-2011)
7-4-9: GREASE/SAND TRAPS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope And Purpose: To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages
and adverse impacts to the wastewater treatment facility and receiving stream
from discharges and accumulation of sand, fats, oils and grease into the sewer
system from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly car wash,
auto repair, food preparation and serving facilities.
   B.   Description: A grease/sand trap is filtering device to remove fats,
oil, grease and sand/dirt from sewage prior to discharge to the public sewer.
Grease Taps are interceptors that serve as small flotation chambers where fat,
grease and oil rise to the water surface and are retained, while the clear
water underneath is discharged. Sand Traps are interceptors that contain
baffles of chambers that allow sand, mud, grit, and other materials to settle
allowing wastewater to move through. The use of the word interceptor is
interchangeable with the word trap.
   C.   Applicability: The following types of facilities will be required to
have grease traps: restaurants, food cooking or food preparation businesses
using any baking, frying, grilling, sauteing, rotisserie, barbecuing, broiling,
boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or poaching operations, cafeterias,
institutional kitchens, schools, hospitals, nursing homes and any other
facility that handles fats, oils and grease and which discharges wastewater
containing grease into the public sewer system. All such establishments are
required to have a properly sized, functioning and maintained grease trap. Sand
traps are required at the following establishments: service stations, car
washes, vehicle repair and lubrication businesses and any other facility that
handles sand/dirt, fats, oils and grease and which discharges wastewater
containing grease into the public sewer system. In some situations both a
grease and sand trap may be required.
   D.   New Facilities: Upon the effective date hereof, facilities which are
newly proposed or constructed, or existing facilities which will be expanded or
renovated, where such facility did not previously exist, or any facility which
changes ownership or lease which does not have properly sized or operational
sand and/or grease trap, shall be required to install, operate and maintain a
sand and/or grease trap meeting the requirements of this chapter. Sand and/or
Grease traps shall he permitted and installed prior to the issuance of
certificate of occupancy.
   E.   Existing Facilities: For the purposes of sizing and installation of
grease traps, all food service facilities existing within the town prior to the
effective date hereof will be permitted to operate and maintain existing grease
traps provided its grease traps are in efficient operating condition. After the
effective date hereof the Village may require an existing food service facility
to install, operate and maintain a new grease trap that complies with the
requirements of this chapter or to modify or repair any noncompliant plumbing
or existing trap within one hundred and eighty (180) days of written
notification from the Village when any of the following conditions exist;
      1.   The facility is found to be contributing fats, oils and grease in
quantities sufficient to cause line stoppages or necessitate increased
maintenance on the public sewer system.
      2.   The facility does not have a grease trap.
      3.   The facility has an undersized, irreparable or defective grease
trap,
      4.   Remodeling of the food preparation or kitchen waste plumbing is
performed which requires a plumbing permit to be issued.
      5.   The existing facility is sold or leased or undergoes a change of
ownership.
      6.   The existing facility does not have plumbing connections to a grease
trap in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Grease Trap Requirements:
      1.   Plumbing Connections: Grease traps, generally, shall be designed for
exterior installation and shall be located in the food service facility’s
lateral sewer line between all fixtures which may introduce grease into the
sewer system and the connection to the public sewer. Such fixtures shall
include, but not be limited to sinks, dishwashers, garbage disposals, automatic
hood wash units, floor drains in food preparation and storage areas and any
other fixture determined to be a potential source of grease. Wastewater from
sanitary facilities and other similar fixtures shall not be introduced into the
grease trap under any circumstances. Grease traps shall be designed, located
and constructed to facilitate easy access and maintenance by the owner and
inspection by the Village.
      2.   Grease Interior Or Under Sink Traps: Interior grease traps shall be
prohibited for new or remodeled food service facilities, except where, in the
determination of the public utilities director, inadequate space is available
for installation of an exterior grease trap. If the public utilities director
grants approval for installation of an interior or under sink grease trap unit,
then such approval shall require written agreement of the owner or lessee to
inspect, clean and maintain the unit at least weekly and to skim the grease out
of such grease trap and place in a holding container of at least fifty five
(55) gallons for pick up by a commercial grease hauler. Grease traps approved
for interior installation shall be equipped with a flow control device to limit
flow through the unit so as not to exceed the manufacturer’s rated capacity in
gallons per minute for the unit. The flow control device and the grease trap
shall be vented at least six inches (6") above the flood rim level.
      3.   Grease Trap Design:
         a.   Access Manholes: Grease traps will be equipped with an access
manhole with a minimum diameter of twenty four inches (24"’) and shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. Access manholes shall extend at
least to finished grade and be designed and installed to prevent inflow or
infiltration.
         b.   Capacity: Grease traps shall have sufficient capacity to perform
the service for which it is provided. Traps shall be designed for a minimum
hydraulic detention time of twenty four (24) minutes at actual peak flow rate
or twelve (12) minutes of calculated peak flow rate as predicted by the uniform
plumbing code fixture criteria, between the influent and effluent baffles, with
twenty percent (20%) of the total volume of the trap allowed for sludge to
settle and accumulate. Both the inlet and outlet of the grease trap shall have
adequate baffles to prevent short circuiting of waste through the trap. The
minimum passive capacity for any grease trap regardless of projected discharge
shall be no less than five hundred (500) gallons.
         c.   Flow through Rate: Because it is necessary for fats, oils and
grease to cool down to solidify, grease traps shall be designed with a
horizontal flow through rate not to exceed 0.25 inch per second. The flow
through rate is to be calculated for a given tank with its maximum grease
storage and sludge storage volume factored into the calculation.
         d.   Approval of Plans: The owner or permittee of any business
required to install a grease trap shall submit a site plan showing the location
of the trap, sewer lines and cleanouts, details of the grease trap, lines,
manhole and cleanouts, and the formula and calculations used to determine the
grease trap capacity.
   G.   Grease Traps Installed By The Users: The food service or other facility
covered by this chapter is responsible for the costs of installing, operating,
cleaning and maintaining its grease trap.
   H.   Inspection, Servicing and Record Keeping: Inspection, servicing and
maintenance is essential for the efficient operation of grease traps. Grease
traps shall be inspected by the user, serviced and emptied of accumulated waste
contents as is required at or before the trap capacity reaches seventy five
percent (75%) of its design capacity. Servicing frequency is site specific and
is dependent on the amount of oil and grease and suspended solids generated at
each facility and the size of the grease trap. In no case shall the frequency
of cleaning be less than once every sixty (60) days, except for interior or
under sink traps which shall be inspected, cleaned, and emptied of grease at
least weekly. The user of a grease trap shall maintain a log book of all
maintenance and cleaning along with evidence, such as billing and manifests
with owner’s signature confirming work was done, of grease removal and disposal
done in accordance with village, state and federal regulations. The user shall
maintain written records of grease trap maintenance and cleaning for a period
of three (3) years. All such records will be available on site for inspection
by the Village at all times.
   I.   Grease Trap Pumping and Cleaning: All grease traps shall be cleaned by
a properly licensed cleaning and disposal operation. Cleaning shall include the
initial complete removal of all contents, including floating materials,
wastewater and bottom sludge and scraping solids from the sides, top and
baffles and pipes of the trap. No on site aboveground grease storage containers
or on site storage of grease outside of the approved grease trap shall be
allowed under this chapter.
   J.   Recycling of Gray Water: The return of gray water back into the grease
trap from which the wastes were removed is allowable, provided that grease and
solids are not returned to the trap and provided the grease hauler has written
permission from the facility to return gray water. The grease hauler shall wait
a minimum of twenty (20) minutes to allow the trap waste to separate in the
truck tank before attempting to reintroduce the gray water to the interceptor.
It shall be the responsibility of each facility to inspect its grease trap
during the pumping procedure to ensure that the grease trap is properly cleaned
out and that all fittings and fixtures inside the trap are in working order.
   K.   Commercial Additives, Enzymes, Emulsifiers And Bacteria: The
introduction of bleach, emulsifiers, enzymes or any other chemical to the
grease trap to reduce, thin or break down grease so that it is flushed or
washed out into the public sewer is strictly prohibited. The addition of live
bacteria available from commercial sources is conditionally permissible,
provided the user first obtains written approval from the Public Utilities
Director prior to its use. The user shall submit MSDS sheets and any other
applicable information concerning the composition, frequency of use and mode of
action of the bacterial additive for the director’s consideration.
   L.   Alternative Grease Removal Devices or Technologies: Alternative grease
removal devices and technologies such as automatic grease removal systems shall
be subject to written approval by the Public Utilities Director prior to
receiving a permit and installation. Approval of the device shall be based on
demonstrated, proven removal efficiencies and reliability of operation. The
Village may approve these types of devices depending on manufacturers’
specifications on a case by case basis.
   M.   Inspection from the Village: Grease traps will be inspected by
representatives of the Public Utilities Department or the Building Inspector as
often as necessary to assure compliance with Village ordinances, to determine
if proper cleaning and maintenance schedules are being adhered to or to perform
sampling of facility’s wastewater. (Ord. 2022-05, 4-26-2022)
7-4-10: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalties; Continuing Violations: Every person convicted of a violation
of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both, for each violation. Each day this chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate offense. The conviction and punishment of any person for a violation
shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of any fee due or
unpaid at the time of such conviction and nothing herein shall prevent a
criminal prosecution of any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Remedies Cumulative; Liens: All remedies prescribed or liens created
hereunder or under the provisions of the law for collection and enforcement of
the fees shall be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the town
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter created by the law. The fees authorized by this
chapter shall be a lien in favor of the Village upon the real property served
and the personal property of the person used in connection with the sewer use
which gave rise to the fee and such lien shall be imposed, collected, enforced
and paid as provided by the law. No property of any persons shall be exempt
from levy and sale on execution issued for the collection of a judgment for any
fee imposed by this chapter.
   C.   Disconnection of Service: For repeated violations of this chapter, the
Village may disconnect the violator’s water and/or sewer service and refuse to
provide water and/or sewer service to the violator until assurances
satisfactory to the Village are provided by the violator that such violations
shall cease.
   D.   Business License Revocation: Gross violations of this chapter may
constitute the revocation of any business license, which is associated with the
discharge privileges. (Ord. 2022-05, 4-26-2022)
CHAPTER 5
OVERSIZED TRANSPORT
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Permit And Compliance
7-5-4: Traffic Control
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define policies and procedures that will
ensure that transport of manufactured houses, modular houses, and similar
oversized vehicles carried on village roads will be done in a safe manner and
will not damage village rights of way. (Ord. 2005-06, 8-18-2005)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
An "oversized vehicle" is any axle vehicle or a trailer that is used to
transport oversized equipment, appliances, or prefabricated buildings measuring
eight feet six inches (8'6") or more in width and/or sixty feet (60') or more
in length. In no case shall the oversized vehicle with cargo exceed sixteen
feet (16') in width as measured at the widest point, or exceed eighty (80)
unarticulated feet in length, or exceed seventeen feet (17') in height. The
maximum axle width allowed shall be sixteen feet (16'). Eave overhangs are
excluded from the total width measurement. (Ord. 2005-06, 8-18-2005)
7-5-3: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, tow, or pull an
oversized vehicle on village rights of way unless such person shall have first
obtained a transport permit from the streets and drainage department.
Submission of an application does not constitute an approved transport permit.
The transport permit fee shall be set by village council resolution.
   B.   Application: The requirements for securing a transport permit shall
include:
      1.   Description of oversized vehicle including dimensions and total
weight including transport vehicle and trailer.
      2.   Proof of retainer for a New Mexico licensed transport service.
      3.   Proof of retainer for a vehicle escort service from village limits
to final site or delivery destination.
      4.   ROW damage deposit bond, amount to be set by village council
resolution.
      5.   Specific date and time the oversized vehicle will enter village
limits.
      6.   Copy of proof of New Mexico construction industries division
inspections for prefab/modular units from the manufacturer (modular decals).
      7.   Copy of signed building permit issued by the Angel Fire building
division.
   C.   Terms Of Damage Deposit Bond:
      1.   Refund Of Deposit: The streets and drainage director shall inspect
the route traveled by the oversized vehicle as prescribed in the transport
permit prior to and after the oversized vehicle has been delivered to its final
site or destination. If any damage is incurred by any part of the right of way,
the streets and drainage director shall prepare a damage assessment and
withhold the cost of repair from the damage deposit. If no damage is incurred,
the damage deposit shall be refunded in its entirety.
      2.   Deposit Hold Time: The damage deposit may be held up to thirty (30)
days after the oversized vehicle is delivered to its final site or destination.
If a company transports oversized loads on a regular basis into the village,
that company may post an annual surety bond or may provide proof of bonded
insurance to the streets and drainage director.
      3.   Deficiency Of Deposit Demand: If after damage assessment, it is
determined by the streets and drainage director that the deposit is less than
sufficient to pay all restoration costs, the applicant shall pay the village an
amount equal to the deficiency as determined by the streets and drainage
director.
      4.   Failure To Perform: If the applicant fails or refuses to complete or
correct any deficiencies noted in the damage assessment, the village may
initiate legal action to recover the amount of money necessary to complete the
restoration work. The remedies herein are in the alternative and are not
exclusive.
   D.   Penalty: Any oversized vehicle transported over any village right of
way without an approved transport permit will be subject to the provisions of
section
7-2-9 of this title. In no case shall any tracked vehicle be allowed in the use
of transporting an oversized vehicle. (Ord. 2005-06, 8-18-2005)
7-5-4: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Traffic control shall be the responsibility of the Angel Fire police department
and shall be based on the information provided in the transport permit
application. Any deviation in the traffic control schedule must be made to the
Angel Fire police department seventy two (72) hours prior to the oversized
vehicle entering the village limits. Any change of schedule notification of
less than seventy two (72) hours shall result in a double transport permit fee
being assessed by the streets and drainage department. The transport permit
will include a route map and description as provided by the streets and
drainage department. In no case shall a required road closure exceed one hour.
(Ord. 2005-06, 8-18-2005)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Enforcement Powers And Duties Of Building Official
8-1-3: Liquid Waste Disposal For New Construction
8-1-4: Plumbing Code
8-1-5: Mechanical Code
8-1-6: Electrical Code
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-4-2 of this code for property maintenance code.1
8-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The building or construction of any new buildings and structures within the
municipal boundaries of the village, including new construction, additions,
alterations, demolition or repairs, shall comply with all the requirements of
the 2021 international codes adopted by the state of New Mexico, July 14, 2023,
which include:
   A.   International building code;
   B.   International residential code;
   C.   International existing building code;
   D.   International residential energy conservation code;
   E.   International commercial energy code;
   F.   International commercial building code; and
   G.   International commercial energy conservation code.
As published by the International Code Council, and with the most current
edition of the New Mexico building code as promulgated by construction
industries division, general construction bureau, state of New Mexico. As the
international codes and the New Mexico building code are, from time to time,
amended, such amendments are hereby adopted by reference. One copy each of the
international codes and the New Mexico building code adopted herein is
available for inspection during the normal and regular business hours at the
office of the village building official.
(Ord. 2004-10, 11-4-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 12-24-2024)
8-1-2: ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL 1
It shall be the duty of the building official to examine all applications for
building permits and to inspect, at such intervals as he deems appropriate, all
ongoing construction within the village in order to ascertain compliance with
the building codes and all other applicable ordinances and laws. For this
purpose, the building official shall have the power to seek inspection of any
property or structure at reasonable hours to determine compliance. In addition,
it shall also be the duty of the building official to determine that the
structure, or any alteration, addition or repair thereto, complies with the
building codes adopted herein before a certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for the building or structure. These duties and powers of the building official
are in addition to, and shall not be construed to limit, such other duties and
powers of the building official as have been assigned by ordinance or other
appropriate action of the village council. (Ord. 1990-03, 9-6-1990)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  9-3-4C1 of this code.2:
8-1-3: LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION 1
No building permit may be issued for any new construction or remodeling which
results in either an increase in the quantity or a change in the quality of
sewage or wastewater produced until the building official is provided with
documentation of proper treatment and disposal of the wastewater produced.
Documentation of proper wastewater treatment and disposal shall be:
   A.   A signed agreement with Angel Fire services corporation, or its
successor, to connect to an approved wastewater system; or (Ord. 1994-04, 11-3-
1994, eff. 11-15-1994)
   B.   An approved liquid waste permit issued by the New Mexico environment
department; or
   C.   An intent to install a liquid waste system reviewed and signed by the
New Mexico environment department. (Ord. 1996-09, 8-14-1996, eff. 8-20-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 4 of this code for sewer service regulations.1:
8-1-4: PLUMBING CODE:
The Angel Fire village council hereby adopts the 2021 edition of the uniform
plumbing code as adopted by the state of New Mexico and all subsequent editions
adopted by the state of New Mexico after this date. (Ord. 2003-10, 9-17-2003)
8-1-5: MECHANICAL CODE:
The Angel Fire village council hereby adopts the 2021 edition of the uniform
mechanical code as adopted by the state of New Mexico and all subsequent
editions adopted by the state of New Mexico after this date. (Ord. 2003-10, 9-
17-2003)
8-1-6: ELECTRICAL CODE:
The Angel Fire village council hereby adopts the 2020 edition of the national
electrical code as adopted by the state of New Mexico and all subsequent
editions adopted by the state of New Mexico after this date. (Ord. 2024-03, 12-
24-2024)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Code Adopted; Compliance Required
8-2-2: Definition
8-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Building Official
8-2-4: Existing Structures
8-2-5: Fire Protection Devices And Equipment
8-2-6: Copy Of Provisions
8-2-1: CODE ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The building or construction of any new or existing structures within the
municipal boundaries of the village, including new construction, additions,
alterations or repairs, shall comply with all the requirements of the 1997
edition of the life safety code as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, and said edition is hereby adopted by reference. As the 1997
edition of the life safety code is from time to time amended, such amendments
are hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-19-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "life safety hazard that constitutes an
imminent threat" means a life threatening condition reasonably determined by
the building official pursuant to his powers and duties set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-19-1992)
8-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the building official to examine all
applications for building permits and to inspect, at such intervals as he or
she deems appropriate, all ongoing construction or existing structures within
the municipal boundaries of the village in order ascertain compliance with the
1997 edition of the life safety code, as amended, and all other applicable
ordinances and laws.
   B.   For the purposes set forth in this chapter, the building official shall
have the power to seek inspection of any property or structure within the
municipal boundaries of the village during regular business hours to determine
compliance with the 1997 edition of the life safety code.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the building official to determine that the
structure, or any alteration, addition or repair to the structure, complies
with the applicable provisions of the 1997 edition of the life safety code,
adopted herein, before a certificate of occupancy is issued for the building or
structure. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-19-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   These duties and powers of the building official are in addition to,
and shall not be construed to limit, such other duties and powers of the
building official as have previously been assigned or may in the future be
assigned by ordinance or other appropriate action of the village council. (Ord.
1992-01, 3-19-1992)
8-2-4: EXISTING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Continuance Of Use: Any existing structure that is occupied at the
effective date hereof may remain in use in its present condition as long as:
      1.   The occupancy classification remains the same; and
      2.   No serious life safety hazard exists that would constitute an
imminent threat.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Use; Repairs, Alterations Or Removal: If, upon an
inspection of any existing structure, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the building official finds and determines there is a serious life
safety hazard that constitutes an imminent threat to those persons in and
around that structure, then the building official shall order:
      1.   The structure vacated;
      2.   The owner of the structure to repair, rehabilitate or remove the
life safety hazard, as specified by the building official; and
      3.   The structure remain vacated until the building official certifies
that the structure no longer has any life safety hazards which constitute an
imminent threat.
   C.   Appeal Procedure:
      1.   Right To Appeal: Any owner of an existing structure who has been
ordered to vacate all persons from the structure by the building official,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may appeal the building official's
order to the village council.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: The village council shall publish notice of the
date, time and place of a hearing on the appeal in a newspaper of local general
circulation once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks.
      3.   Time For Hearing: The hearing shall take place no sooner than ten
(10) days from the last notice published.
      4.   Presentation Of Cases; Due Process: The village council shall allow
both parties to fully present their respective cases to the council. The
hearing held by the village council shall be an administrative hearing
affording the parties to the appeal the full due process of law.
      5.   Council Decision: The village council's decision shall be final with
no further appeal available. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-19-1992)
8-2-5: FIRE PROTECTION DEVICES AND EQUIPMENT:
The building official shall have the power to require and enforce an owner of
an existing structure to acquire or maintain fire protection equipment,
including, but not limited to, smoke alarms, fire extinguishers or sprinkler
systems. Failure by the owner of the existing structure to acquire or maintain
fire protection equipment, as specified and ordered by the building official,
is a type of life safety hazard that constitutes an imminent threat. (Ord.
1992-01, 3-19-1992)
8-2-6: COPY OF PROVISIONS:
A copy of this chapter and a complete and updated copy of the 1997 edition of
the life safety code with any and all of its amendments and appendices shall be
kept available for public inspection during regular business hours at the
office of the village clerk, located at suite D of the mini-mart plaza in the
village. (Ord. 1992-01, 3-19-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN
SECTION:
8-3-1: Introduction
8-3-2: Purpose
8-3-3: Definitions
8-3-4: Home Ignition Zone Requirements
8-3-5: Additional Requirements
8-3-6: Enforcement And Incentives
8-3-7: Education And Resources
8-3-8: Effective Date
8-3-9: Voluntary Home Assessments
8-3-1: INTRODUCTION:
Phase I - The Defensible Space Ordinance (DSO) of the Village of Angel Fire's
fire protection code applies to improved and developed properties with
residential structures. Multi-family residential structures and unimproved and/
or undeveloped lots seeking certification of compliance with the phase I DSO
will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Compliance with the Village of Angel Fire's Defensible Space Ordinance as
outlined below allows for the issuance of certification for individual property
owners and contributes to increased fire safety of the community. (Ord. 2025-
04, eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-2: PURPOSE:
Angel Fire's fuel management code sets out to establish requirements and
guidelines to protect life, property, and infrastructure from the threat of
wildfires. By utilizing the home ignition zone principles defined by the NFPA,
the Village of Angel Fire seeks to ensure that defensible space is created
around residential structures on improved, developed lots within the Angel Fire
village limits. This chapter aims to minimize the risk of home ignition from
ember attacks, radiant heat, and surface fires by addressing property
maintenance regulations as well as home hardening guidelines outlined in both
the 2022 Colfax County and Angel Fire Community Wildfire Protection Plans
(CWPP).
Additionally, the Village of Angel Fire's Defensible Space Ordinance seeks to
establish the process by which property owners within the wildland urban
interface area of Angel Fire can obtain a certificate confirming the extent to
which the property complies with DSO requirements and recommendations. The
village anticipates the issuance of certifications will encourage compliance
with the DSO requirements and allow property owners to obtain property
insurance with greater ease.
   A.   Attributions: The Village of Angel Fire's Defensible Space Ordinance
2025-2026 includes direct use and adaptations of standards and guidelines from
the following sources.
      1.   2022 NFPA 1140 Standard for Wildland Fire Protection by the National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA), © 2023 National Fire Protection
Association, 2024.
      2.   The International Wildland Urban Interface Code by the International
Code Council (ICC), © 2023 by the International Code Council, Inc.
      3.   2023 Model Ordinance for Construction in a Wildland Urban Interface
(WUI) by the Insurance Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS).
      4.   The National Fire Protection Association guidelines entitled
Preparing Homes for Wildfire. (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms apply:
   DEFENSIBLE SPACE: An area around a structure where vegetation and
landscaping has been modified to reduce wildfire threat from surrounding
wildland.
   DEVELOPED LOTS: Lots with a structure.
   EMBERS: Small, burning particles of wood or vegetation carried by the wind,
capable of igniting materials far from the fire's origin.
   EXTENDED ZONE: The area from thirty (30) feet to one hundred (100) feet from
the home, or up to two hundred (200) feet on steeper slopes.
   HIGHLY FLAMMABLE VEGETATION LIST: These are plants quick to catch fire due
to the presence of oils, resins such as tree sap, waxes, or chemicals in the
leaves or branches.
Conifers Natives
Conifers             Natives
Young Ponderosa      Gambel Oak
Douglas Fir          Serviceberry
Englemann Spruce     Sagebrush
Subalpine Fire       Bitterbrush
White Fir            Rabbitbrush
Mountain Mahogany    Yucca
Colorado Blue Spruce Dry Grass
Piñon               Snakeweed
Juniper
 
   HOME IGNITION ZONE (HIZ): The area around a structure where vegetation,
debris, and other factors may contribute to the risk of a home igniting during
a wildfire. This zone extends up to two hundred (200) feet from the foundation
of the home. The concept of the home ignition zone was developed by retired
USDA forest service fire scientist Jack Cohen in the late 1990s following some
breakthrough experimental research into how homes ignite because of radiant
heat. The home ignition zone is divided into three zones: immediate,
intermediate, and extended zones per figure 1 below.
Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ec498b7854a16436e4c9df9026a8848fad467b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1744.png]
 
   IMMEDIATE ZONE: The area from the furthest attached exterior point of the
home to five (5) feet.
   IMPROVED LOTS: Lots with utilities.
   INTERMEDIATE ZONE: The area from five (5) feet to thirty (30) feet from the
furthest exterior point of the home.
   LADDER FUELS: Vegetation that allows a fire to move from the ground to the
canopy of trees.
   SLASH: The debris left behind after mitigation operations, including
branches, twigs, bark, and small trees.
   UNDEVELOPED LOTS: Lots without a structure.
   UNIMPROVED LOTS: Lots without utilities.
   WUI (WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE): The zone between unoccupied land and
developed land. Where human development meets and/or mixes with natural
environments. (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-4: HOME IGNITION ZONE REQUIREMENTS:
For Improved, developed lots less than one (1) acre, refer to sections
8-3-4A and
8-3-4B. For improved, developed lots greater than one (1) acre, sections
8-3-4A,
8-3-4B, and
8-3-4C apply.
   A.   Immediate Zone (zero (0) to five (5) feet): This zone is a non-
combustible area to prevent ember accumulation and reduce the likelihood of
direct flame contact with the home.
      1.   Roof And Gutter Maintenance: Clean roofs and gutters starting May 1
to remove dead leaves, pine needles, and debris that can catch embers.
Protection of eaves gutters and downspouts must be made of non-combustible
materials. Clean debris from exterior attic vents.
      2.   Protection Of Eaves: All structures upon the property must have
fully enclosed tails. Eaves and soffits must be protected on the exposed
underside by ignition-resistant materials or by materials approved for not less
than one (1) hour fire-resistance, two (2) inch nominal dimension lumber, (1)
inch nominal fire-retardant-treated lumber, or three-fourth (¾) inch nominal
fire-retardant treated plywood that is identified for exterior use and meeting
the requirements of the international building code. Fascia is required and
shall be protected on the backside by ignition-resistant materials or by
materials approved for not less than one (1) hour fire resistance or two (2)
inch nominal dimension lumber. If there is already existing soffit material, no
change is required. Material being placed after the ordinance effective date on
existing or new structures must comply.
      3.   Screening: Install one-eighth (1/8) inch metal mesh (non-
combustible) screening on eaves, vents, windows, and other openings such as
attic vents to prevent embers from entering the home. Repair or replace damaged
or loose window screens with wire mesh to prevent accumulation of debris.
      4.   Materials: Move any flammable materials such as mulch, plants, and
firewood away from the exterior walls of the home. No materials should be
stored under decks, porches, or overhangs. See section 4.1 for firewood storage
details.
      5.   Vegetation/Landscaping: No highly flammable vegetation, such as
juniper trees, shall be present in this zone. Landscaping ideally should
include gravel, concrete, well-watered grass, or bare soil.
         a.   Planting Beds: Planting beds within the immediate zone extend the
immediate zone to five (5) feet from their outermost edge as they are treated
as part of the structure.
         b.   Planting beds must use alternatives to woodchips such as gravel,
sand, or rock. No rubber mulches such as fake grass or turf is permitted.
         c.   Low combustible trees are permitted withing the immediate zone
with the following requirements:
            (1)   The immediate zone extends from five (5) feet to ten (10)
feet from the structure.
            (2)   No tree vegetation is allowed within ten (10) feet of a
chimney outlet.
            (3)   Trees without their canopies touching and in compliance with
the roof clearance regulations below are permitted and considered part of the
structure.
            (4)   There must be an eighteen (18) foot break between canopies
within the immediate zone and highly flammable trees within the intermediate
zone.
            (5)   Roof Clearance: The vertical clearance distance above any
roof shall not be less than three (3) feet. A minimum of three (3) feet
clearance exists to the side and above any eve or roof projection from the
exterior wall of a building. A minimum six (6) foot clearance shall exist below
any eve or roof projection.
      6.   Debris Removal: Remove all pine needles, leaves, and other debris
regularly starting May 1 to August 31 of each year. This includes debris
accumulation under decks, porches, and overhangs. Slash material and material
that is chipped or masticated onsite must be stored outside of this zone until
it is removed.
      7.   Pile Burning: The practice of pile burning is not allowed within the
immediate zone.
      8.   Outbuildings: Sheds and other outbuildings and structures on the
property must comply with all immediate zone requirements.
   B.   Intermediate Zone (five (5) to thirty (30) feet or up to one hundred
(100) feet in consideration of slope): This zone involves landscaping and
hardscaping to break up fuel continuity and limit the potential for surface
fire to reach the home.
      1.   Vegetation Landscaping: Prune trees to a minimum of six (6) feet
from the ground. For shorter trees, prune to at least one-third (1/3) of the
tree's height. Remove ladder fuels from under the tree canopy. If a tree has a
bush or shrub growing near or under it, there must be a vertical clearance of
at least three (3) times the height of the shrub to the lowest tree branch.
Keep lawns and native grasses mowed to a height of four (4) inches. Clear
Vegetation from under stationary propane tanks.
Figure 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ec498b7854a16436e4c9df9026a8848fad467b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1746.png]
 
      2.   Tree Spacing: Individual trees and clumps of trees must maintain at
least eighteen (18) feet of space between crowns. This applies to flammable
species and does not include Aspens. A minimum (10) foot canopy spacing from
any structure will be required. The spacing distance should increase with the
slope of the land. When the slope is less than twenty percent (>20%), spacing
will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
      3.   Debris Removal: Remove all dead trees, downed limbs, and other
vegetation. Clear pine needles, leaf litter, and any other combustible material
regularly starting May 1st to Aug 31st. Slash material and material that is
chipped or masticated on-site pre-disposal must be stored outside of this zone.
      4.   Pile Burning: The practice of pile burning is not allowed in the
intermediate zone.
      5.   Fuel Breaks: Create fuel breaks with driveways, patios, walkways,
and other hardscapes to help interrupt fire spread.
   C.   Extended Zone (thirty (30) to one hundred (100) feet or up to two
hundred (200) feet in consideration of slope): In this zone, the goal is to
reduce fire intensity by eliminating large fuel sources and breaking up the
continuity of vegetation.
      1.   Vegetation/Landscaping: Remove ladder fuels, small conifers, over-
grown bushes between mature trees, especially junipers. Maintain at least
twelve (12) feet of spacing between the canopy tops of trees and clusters of
trees thirty (30) to sixty (60) feet from the home and at least six (6) feet
for trees or clusters of trees sixty (60) to one hundred (100) feet away. The
distance increases with slope. Clear vegetation from underneath as well as ten
(10) feet around stationary propane tanks. Remove vegetation within five (5)
feet of storage sheds or other outbuildings within this area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ec498b7854a16436e4c9df9026a8848fad467b8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1748.png]
      2.   Debris Removal: Routinely clear heavy accumulations of ground
litter, debris, and fallen trees. Remove all large accumulations of slash, dead
logs, and standing dead trees.
      3.   Onsite Material Disposal: Chipped or masticated material may be
spread on site, provided the depth does not exceed two (2) inches.
      4.   Pile Burning: The practice of pile burning may be conducted in this
zone with the acquisition of, and in compliance with, a burn permit. (Ord.
2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-5: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Firewood Storage
      1.   Storage Restrictions
         a.   During fire season from May 1 to August 31, firewood is not to be
stored in the immediate or intermediate zone. Storage of firewood in the
extended zone or thirty (30) feet to one hundred (100) feet from the home is
permitted year-round and must be properly contained and covered with fire-
retardant covers or enclosures.
         b.   Outside of fire season from September 1 to April 30, firewood is
permitted within the immediate and intermediate zones for accessibility. Fire-
retardant covers are required if wood is stored against a structure or on or
near a deck.
         c.   Year-round, firewood should never be stored near combustible
materials. A minimum of ten (10) feet from a chiminea, grill, portable propane
tank, gas source, and chemicals is required. This includes any ignition source.
   B.   Forest Thinning And Vegetation Management:
      1.   Thinning Requirements: Additional Forest thinning may be required
for certain properties depending on forest type and density. Forest thinning
recommendations will be phased in over the next three to five (3-5) years with
requirements aligning with local forest types and assessed on a case-by-case
basis.
      2.   Forest-Type Considerations: Prioritize the retention of healthy, un-
suppressed ponderosa pine, Douglas Fir, and limber pine trees in drier
ponderosa pine and dry mixed conifer forests. Remove species like juniper and
white fir. In wet mixed conifer and spruce- fir forests, favor the retention of
healthy confers to promote stand density and spacing.
   C.   Landscaping And Plant Selection:
      1.   Tree And Shrub Placement: In the immediate zone, trees and shrubs
should be limited to small clusters to prevent fire from spreading across a
continuous fuel load. In the intermediate zone, avoid planting and allowing
large clusters of vegetation for the same reason mentioned above.
      2.   Plant Species: Select fire-resistant plants and avoid highly
flammable species such as juniper or other resinous trees and shrubs in the
immediate zone.
      3.   Trees For Privacy Screening: Established trees utilized as a privacy
screen between properties are allowed with an 18 ft fuel break in place within
the extended zone. All trees must comply with the pruning requirements and zone
landscaping requirements associated with their location. New trees for privacy
screens must not be planted within the immediate zone and must be at least 10
feet from the structure.
   D.   Adjacent Properties:
      1.   Mitigation On Adjacent Properties: Property owners are required to
maintain only the portion of the defensible space zone that falls on their
property. If the required defensible space zone crosses property lines, then
the affected property owner is responsible only for the portion that occurs on
their property regardless of which property the building is located on.
      2.   Property owners are encouraged to work with their neighbors to
ensure that mitigation efforts extend into the home ignition zone of
neighboring properties. The Village of Angel Fire is considering a method by
which a property owner can gain approval and permission from a neighboring
property to thin on the neighboring lot if the home ignition zone extends into
the neighboring property.
   E.   House Numbers: All properties within the Village of Angel Fire must
post a house or address number. If the home is more than fifty (50) feet away
from street, and/or not visible from the street it must be posted at the entry
point of the property. Minimum three (3) inch reflective and contrasting
numbering is required. (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-6: ENFORCEMENT AND INCENTIVES:
   A.   Compliant Lots: Improved & Developed lots with residential structures
that have been brought into compliance by June 1 of each year will receive a
fifty percent (50%) discount on their wildland fees associated with their Angel
Fire village water bill. Any reduction of net wildland fees to the Village of
Angel Fire will be offset by increasing wildland fees via resolution to all
non-compliant lots.
   B.   Previously Certified Lots: Improved, developed lots previously
certified as compliant will be subject to random inspection by the Village of
Angel Fire to ensure that its condition as a certified lot have been properly
maintained.
   C.   Fines: The Village of Angel Fire will begin fining non-compliant
improved, developed lots when the total lot compliance within the village
limits reaches fifty percent (50%). Fine amounts will be set by resolution and
should be increased as necessary to reach a total lot compliance of seventy-
five percent (75%). Once a total lot compliance of seventy-five percent (75%)
has been reached, the Village of Angel Fire shall begin remediating non-
compliant lots at the Village of Angel Fire's expense and shall pursue leans or
foreclosure actions to recoup remediation expenses. (VAF Ord 2020-02, VAF
Resolution 2023-25) (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-7: EDUCATION AND RESOURCES:
Public Education And Resources:
   A.   AFFD approved resources provide educational resources and workshops for
residents to help them understand the importance of defensible space and how to
implement the recommendations in this chapter.
   B.   Educational meetings specific to fire safety and fire personnel
presence at a variety of community events offer property owners opportunities
to learn more about home hardening and defensible space in Angel Fire's
wildland urban setting.
   C.   Post fire-resistant plant lists, guidance on roof and gutter cleaning,
and other best practices on the fire department and local government websites.
Encourage emergency alert sign up and provide ready-set-go pamphlets. (Ord.
2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect on April 1, 2025. (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
8-3-9: VOLUNTARY HOME ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Assessments: Home assessments can be conducted by the fire department.
   B.   Wildfire Hazard Rating: Homes will be evaluated with a pass/fail
system. Mitigation recommendations will be provided to homeowners' post
evaluation. (Ord. 2025-04, Eff. 4-1-2025)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose And Intent
9-1-3: Scope; Compliance With Provisions
9-1-4: Interpretation Of Provisions
9-1-5: Severability
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as and may be cited as the ZONING AND LAND USE
ORDINANCE, ORDINANCE 2002-02, THE ZONING ORDINANCE, OR THIS ZONING CODE. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to safeguard the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the Village and its residents by regulating the
design, location, use and occupancy of all buildings and/or structures,
resulting in the orderly development of land and land uses within the Village.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this title is to ensure a fair and reasonable
process for development in the Village with known and reasonably applied
standards to achieve its purpose. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-1-3: SCOPE; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this title shall apply to the construction,
alteration, moving, repair and use of any building, parcel of land or sign
within the Village unless specifically excluded in this title.
   B.   Where, in any specific case, different applicable sections of this
title specify different requirements, the more restrictive shall apply. Where
there is conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the
specific requirement shall apply.
   C.   In fulfilling its purpose, this title is intended to benefit the public
generally and not any specific person or class of persons. Although through the
implementation, administration and enforcement of this title, benefits and
detriments may be enjoyed or suffered by specific individuals, such is merely
an unintended consequence of the benefits to the Village as a whole. Therefore,
unintentional breaches in the administration and enforcement of this title
hereby shall not be nor form a basis for any action or claim against the
Village. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   D.   No use, building or structure shall be constructed or authorized unless
and until the location and extent of the use, building or structure are in
conformance with this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-1-4: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   This title states the requirements adopted for the promotion and
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. Whenever the requirements
of this title are in conflict with the requirements of any other code, rule,
regulation or ordinance adopted by the Village, the more restrictive or one
imposing the higher standard shall govern.
   B.   The interpretation and application of this title shall be made by the
zoning official and the Coordinator. An appeal by any party of any
interpretation and/or application by the zoning official and the Coordinator
shall be heard by the commission. Unless otherwise provided, the commission's
interpretation and application of this title are final. The party making the
interpretation appeal may appeal the commission's interpretation to Council in
accordance with subsections
9-3-8B2, B3, and B4 of this title as a formal appeal.
   C.   This title shall not be construed to provide relief from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, leasing or controlling any
building or parcel of land for any damages to persons or property caused by
defects, nor shall the Village be held as assuming or having any liability by
reason of any action taken pursuant to this title. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
9-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or provision of this zoning code is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court having
jurisdiction over such matters, such decision of that court shall not affect
the validity of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses or provisions of
this zoning code, it being the intent of the council that this zoning code
shall remain effective and enforceable notwithstanding the invalidity or
unconstitutionality otherwise determined of any section, sentence, clause, or
provision. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this code, the following words and phrases mean:
ABANDON: To give up by leaving one's responsibility; to cease construction or
repair of a structure, equipment or real property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building customarily incidental to and
located on the same lot occupied by the main use or building, such as a
detached garage.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: An accessory building used solely as the temporary
dwelling of guests of the occupants of the premises; such dwelling having
kitchen facilities and used as a separate dwelling unit. (Shall have the same
owner as the principal building.)
ACCESSORY USE: A use conducted on the same lot as the primary use of the
structure to which it is related; a use that is clearly incidental to and
customarily found in connection with such primary use.
ADULT USE: A business restricted to and appropriate only for persons over
twenty one (21) years of age, such as, but not limited to, adult bookstore,
adult entertainment, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult novelty
store.
ALLEY: Any public way or thoroughfare less than sixteen feet (16') in width
that has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use.
ALTERATION: Any change, addition, or modification in construction, occupancy or
use.
ANIMAL CARE/VETERINARY: A business devoted to the care of domestic animals
without kennels.
ANTENNA: Any exterior device for transmitting and receiving wireless
communication that is mounted on a tower, building or structure and that is
used to send and receive signals for cellular telephones, personal
communications service (PCS), mobile radio, paging, wireless internet access,
and similar communication services. Antennas may include panels, microwave
dishes, satellite dishes, whip antennas, or other devices that may be affixed
to a tower, pole or other structure.
ANTENNA, ATTACHED: An antenna mounted on the exterior of an existing building,
chimney, smokestack, water tower, utility or power pole, existing wireless
communication tower, or an alternative support structure.
ANTENNA, CONCEALED (STEALTH): An antenna with a support structure that screens
or camouflages the presence of antennas and/or towers from public view in a
manner appropriate to the site's context and surrounding environment. Examples
include bell towers, clock towers, flagpoles, utility poles, light poles, water
tanks, architectural and facade features.
ARCHITECTURAL APPROPRIATENESS: The architectural review of zoning permit
applications as it pertains to the requirements of this code.
ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL COMMITTEE: The committee appointed to enforce the
declaration of restrictive covenants of a subdivision.
ATTACHED SIGN: Any type of sign physically attached to a building, including
projecting signs, hanging signs, and wall signs.
BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY: A commercial activity conducted within a structure,
which includes dining and bathroom facilities with sleeping rooms for short
term guest lodging.
BUILDABLE AREA: That portion of a lot upon which buildings, structures or other
development may be placed, limited by floodplain, slope or other terrain
constraints, required setbacks, minimum open space standards or other design
and development standards set forth in this zoning code.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING CODE: The building code as adopted by the village 1
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above the highest existing grade
measured to the highest point of the building roofline.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: Will have qualifications certified by the state and a
national certification agency to inspect residential and commercial projects to
ensure compliance with the local building codes.
BUILDING LINE: The perimeter of that portion of a building or structure nearest
a property line.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the building code, or the building official's
duly authorized representative.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the principal use of the site is
conducted.
BUILDING SITE: The lot area required or used for the construction or location
of buildings.
BUSINESS COMPLEX: A business or commercial complex of two (2) or more separate
businesses located in separately secured spaces, under separate ownership/
leases and operating under separate business licenses and zoning certificates.
CC&Rs, RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Regulations governing the use of land within a
specific subdivision.
CALIPER: The circumference of a tree trunk measured one foot (1') above the
ground excluding knots, branches, and other irregularities in the trunk.
CANNABIS MANUFACTURING: A use limited to the extracting, labeling or
relabeling, packaging or repackaging, or testing of cannabis products.
Extraction methods are limited to mechanical methods or nonvolatile solvents.
This use must be conducted within a fully enclosed building. This use shall not
be considered a home occupation use.
CARPORT: A roofed structure open on at least two (2) sides and used for the
storage of private or pleasure type vehicles.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A statement that the described portion of the
building has been inspected for compliance with the requirements of this zoning
code for the group and division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed
occupancy is classified.
CHARTER SCHOOL: An educational institution granted a special charter from the
New Mexico public education department.
CHURCH: A building or group of buildings used primarily as a place of communion
or worship and includes convents, religious education buildings and parish
houses, but not parochial schools.
CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangular area of unobstructed vision at a street
intersection or a point of ingress/egress to a parking lot. It is measured
beginning at the point where two (2) perpendicular rights of way meet, then
measuring fifteen feet (15') away from the intersection in each direction of
the two (2) rights of way. These two (2) points are then connected to form a
triangle. Within this triangle, there is a clear zone between three feet (3')
and eight feet (8') measured from any point within the clear sight triangle.
CLINIC: An establishment in which patients are not lodged overnight but are
treated and examined by one or more members of the healing profession.
CLUSTER HOUSING: The location of houses in close proximity to each other so
there will be large areas of open land contiguous to the built up areas.
CODE OFFICIAL: Enforces this zoning code for the village, but does not adopt
and promulgate rules and procedures.
COLOCATE: Use by two (2) or more wireless communication providers on the same
tower or other alternative structure.
COMMERCIAL CROP PRODUCTION: The cultivation, maintenance and harvesting of
fruits, vegetables, or other plants for retail consumption, sale, or
distribution. This use shall be considered a main use.
COMMERCIAL, GENERAL: An establishment or business which generally uses open
sales yards, outside equipment storage, or outside activities that generate
noise, or other impacts considered incompatible with less intense uses. Typical
businesses in this definition are lumberyards, construction specialty services,
heavy equipment suppliers or building contractors.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the village.
COMMON AREA: An open area for the use of a specific group, such as members,
owners, tenants, etc. In condominiums, it is owned in common; in subdivisions,
it is owned by the developer and set aside for common use, commonly known as
greenbelts.
COMMUNITY EVENT SIGNS: On premises or off premises signs, primarily attached to
or hung from light poles or on buildings. These signs are solely decorative,
festive and of an informative nature announcing activities, promotions or
events with seasonal or traditional themes having broad community interest, and
which are sponsored or supported by a jurisdiction based organization.
COMPANION ANIMALS (PETS): Those small mammals and birds not used for business
purposes, most commonly, cats and dogs.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that would become harmonious or compatible with
neighboring uses through the application and maintenance of qualifying
conditions established by the council.
CONDOMINIUM: A single dwelling unit in a multi-unit dwelling or structure,
which is separately owned, and which may be combined with an undivided interest
in the common areas and facilities of the property.
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof that contains facilities
for living, sleeping and sanitation as required by this zoning code, and may
include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a
family. A "congregate residence" may be a shelter, convent, monastery,
dormitory, and fraternity or sorority house, but does not include jails,
hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living, hotels, or lodging houses.
CONTIGUOUS: Being in actual contact with or touching along a boundary or point.
COUNCIL: The village council of the village of Angel Fire, New Mexico.
COURT: A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on three (3) or more sides by walls of a building.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units which is allowed on an acre of land.
DRIVEWAY: A private access road, the use of which is by persons residing,
employed, or otherwise using or visiting the parcel in which it is located.
DRIVING AISLE: The driving portion of the parking lot providing access to each
space.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling unit with kitchen and sleeping
facilities, designed for occupancy by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building (including manufactured homes) or portion thereof
which contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation, as required by this zoning code, for not more than one
family, or a congregate residence for six (6) or fewer persons. The term
dwelling shall not include hotels, motels, RVs, tents, or other structures
designed or used primarily for temporary occupancy. Any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a principal building.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by a
person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
"easement" may be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT: A permit issued to a private party, corporation, or
utility company for the purpose of excavating a trench or pit, or boring under,
or within a village right of way for the installation of utility lines,
conduits, or drainage structures.
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT: The state of New Mexico environment department.
ERECT: To build or construct any structure.
EXCESSIVE SLOPE: Any slope greater than twenty percent (20%).
FAMILY: A. An individual; or
B. Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption; or
C. A group, not to exceed six (6) unrelated persons, living together as a
single housekeeping unit as permitted by law.
FARM ANIMALS: Animals other than household pets that may, where permitted, be
kept and maintained for commercial production and sale and/or family food
production, education or recreation. "Farm animals" are identified by these
categories: large animals, e.g., horses and cattle.
FENCE: A fence, wall, hedge, or other structure forming a boundary or enclosing
an area.
FLEA MARKET: A market conducted occasionally or periodically by an operator,
held in an open area or structure, where groups of individual vendors offer
goods for sale to the public.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the horizontal areas of floors of a building measured
from the exterior face of exterior walls or, if appropriate, from the
centerline of dividing walls; this includes courts and decks or porches when
covered by a roof.
FRONT: The side of the business facing the major road.
FRONT YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and a line
parallel thereto.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot or parcel abutting a public right of way measured
at the front property line.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An enclosed secure structure, either attached or detached to a
building in which only private or pleasure type motor vehicles used by the
tenants or owners of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or
kept.
GRADE: The highest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground
within the area of the building.
GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION): The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line or, when the property line is more than five
feet (5') from the building, between the building and a line five feet (5')
from the building.
GRAZING: The feeding primarily of native or introduced plants growing in place
on the ground by domestic livestock on an open range or fenced pasture for
commercial purposes and uses commonly incidental thereto, but not including
commercial feed pens, stockyards, bone yards, fertilizer yards,
slaughterhouses, or plants for the reduction of animal matter. The number of
said livestock shall not exceed the natural carrying capacity of the land as
determined by prudent conservation practices.
GREENBELT: An area within a subdivision set aside to remain undeveloped and
used for the recreational use of the subdivision owners (see definition of
Common Area).
HAZARDOUS ACTIVITY: Any use or activity that results in a significant risk to
the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the village of Angel Fire as
determined by the village council, or by state or federal regulatory agencies.
(Some examples of hazardous activity are, but are not limited to: noise, dust,
vapor, fumes, odors, smoke, vibration, glare, industrial waste.)
HEIGHT OF ANTENNA: The vertical distance from the preexisting grade at the base
of the tower to the highest point of the tower including antennas.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance on each side of the building shall be
measured from the ridgeline to the highest point of finished grade.
HIGH WATER TABLE: Ground water, either seasonal or perennial, that may affect
the structural stability and integrity of any building or structure or the
construction thereof.
HOME OCCUPATION: The partial use of a dwelling unit for commercial or
nonresidential uses by a resident thereof which is subordinate and incidental
to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
HOSPITAL: An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for
inpatients, and including, as related facilities, laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities and staff offices, but not including clinics
or healthcare centers.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building containing as its principal use, sleeping rooms
designed to be rented for short term occupancy and which may or may not have
eating or drinking facilities as an accessory use.
ILLUMINATION/LIGHTING: Lighting used for any purpose.
IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, or other object constituting a physical
betterment of real property or any part of such betterment.
INTENSITY OF USE: Number of buildings or families per acre.
JUNKYARD: See definition of Salvage Yard, Junkyard.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more adult dogs or cats (not
including livestock or farm animals) are kept, for compensation. (Not a
veterinary establishment.)
KITCHEN: Any room or portion of a room within a building designed and intended
to be used for the cooking or preparation of food.
LANDSCAPING: The finishing and adornment of unpaved yard areas. Materials and
treatment generally include naturally growing elements such as grass, trees,
shrubs and flowers. This treatment may also include the use of logs, rocks,
fountains, water features and contouring of the earth.
LIGHT POLLUTION: The light that escapes the intended area of illumination,
i.e., light pointing up or reflecting into the night sky.
LIGHT REFLECTIVE VALUE: A measurement of the percentage of the total visible
light that is reflected from a surface. The LRV of paint, stucco, or a roof
material is available from the manufacturer or at retail outlets; the LRV
measures the amount of light reflected by a certain material and color.
LIVESTOCK (FARM ANIMALS): Includes, but is not limited to, horses, bovine
animals, sheep, goats, poultry, swine, reindeer, donkeys, mules, any other
hoofed animals, and animals domesticated and useful to man.
LOT: A single parcel of land.
MANUFACTURED HOME: As defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21A-2,
is a home that is a single-family dwelling with a heated area of at least
thirty six feet by twenty four feet (36' x 24') and at least eight hundred
sixty four (864) square feet constructed in a factory to the standards of the
United States department of housing and urban development, the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974, and the
housing and urban development zone code II or the building code, as amended to
the date of the unit's construction and installed consistent with the
manufactured housing act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 60, article 14.
METEOROLOGICAL TOWER (MET TOWER): Is defined to include the tower, base plate,
anchors, guy cables and hardware, anemometers (wind speed indicators), wind
direction vanes, booms to hold equipment, anemometers and vanes, data logger,
instrument wiring, and any telemetry devices that are used to monitor or
transmit wind speed and wind flow characteristics over a period of time for
either instantaneous wind information or to characterize the wind resource at a
given location.
MIXED USE: A zoning district including multiple zone types such as residential
and commercial on the same lot.
MOBILE HOME: As defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21A-3, is a
movable or portable housing structure larger than forty feet (40') in body
length, eight feet (8') in width and eleven feet (11') in overall height,
designed for and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping
purposes but does not include structures built to the standards of any
municipal building code and other technical codes.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land developed and operated as a unit with
individual sites and facilities to accommodate two (2) or more mobile homes.
MORTUARY (FUNERAL HOME): An establishment in which dead persons are prepared
for burial or cremation. The facility may include a chapel for the conduct of
funeral services and space for funeral services and informal gatherings and/or
display of funeral equipment.
MOTEL (HOTEL): Any building containing six (6) or more guest rooms intended or
designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
MOVING: Any change in the location of a structure, including the relocation of
a structure to a new location on the same lot or lots.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the effective date hereof, which was designed, erected or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to this zoning code.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot whose width, area, or other dimension that existed at
the effective date hereof, which does not conform to this zoning code.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign or sign structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the effective date hereof, which does not now conform.
NONCONFORMING USE: See definition of Use, Nonconforming.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign or billboard that advertises a business, product, or
event that is not located on the same lot where said business, product, or
event is located.
OPEN SPACE: Land area not occupied by buildings, structures, parking areas,
streets, alleys or required yards. Unless otherwise prohibited, "open space"
may be devoted to landscaping, preservation of natural features, patios, and
recreational areas and facilities.
PARK: A public or private area of land, with or without buildings, intended for
outdoor active or passive recreational uses.
PARKING, OFF STREET: Any parking space located wholly within the limits of one
or more lots.
PARKING SPACE: An area, exclusive of drives, turning areas, or loading space,
devoted to the parking of a vehicle, unless otherwise defined in this title, a
minimum of nine feet (9') by eighteen feet (18') by seven feet (7') high.
Parking spaces may also be defined as parking stalls.
PERMITTED USE: A use of land within any particular zoning district that is
authorized as a matter of rights so long as all other requirements of this
zoning code are met.
PERSON: A natural person, heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, and
also includes a firm, partnership or corporation, or its successors or assigns,
or the agent of any of the aforesaid.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A residential or commercial development guided
by a total design plan in which one or more of the zoning, other than use,
regulations may be waived or varied to allow flexibility and creativity in site
and building design and location, in accordance with general guidelines.
PLANS: All plans, specifications, sketches, renditions and other materials
depicting and describing a building or structure in sufficient enough detail
and clarity that a determination can be made by the building official and the
commission that said building or structure is in full compliance with all
applicable village, state, and federal codes pertaining to such building,
structure or use.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVE: Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky that is privately owned and not
dedicated or maintained by the village.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: An office that is devoted to such professions as doctors,
lawyers, dentists, architects, veterinarians and other similar professional
activities and office space.
PROJECT: A proposal or organized undertaking, such as a building that is under
construction or to be constructed.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building open to general use, participation, or enjoyment
by the public.
PUBLIC ROAD OR WAY: Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky that is deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any physical facility designed for:
   A.   The storage, production, treatment or transportation of electricity,
petroleum products, natural gas and other forms of energy; or
   B.   The storage and transportation of telephone, cable television and other
forms of communication; or
   C.   The storage, production, treatment, or transportation of both potable
and nonpotable water and for the collection, transportation, treatment and
final disposal of domestic and nondomestic wastewater.
PUBLIC UTILITY STATION: A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public utility agency to store, distribute, or generate electricity, gas,
telecommunications, and related equipment, or to pump or chemically treat
water. This does not include storage or treatment of sewage, solid waste or
hazardous waste.
QUASI-PUBLIC: Essentially a public use, although under private ownership or
control.
QUORUM: A majority of the voting members of the commission.
RECONSTRUCTION: The work of rebuilding a structure.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, whose gross
floor area is more than thirty two (32) square feet, which is designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and which is
either self- propelled, mounted on or pulled by another vehicle. Examples
include, but are not limited to, a travel trailer, camping trailer, truck
camper, motor home, fifth wheel trailer or van.
REMODELING: See definition of Alteration.
RENOVATION: Interior or exterior remodeling of a structure, other than ordinary
repair.
REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE: Work done to maintain a structure in good condition.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: One or more rooms, in addition to kitchen and bath
facilities, intended or designed for occupancy by a family.
RESTAURANT: An establishment that provides food for on premises consumption.
ROTOR DIAMETER: The cross sectional dimension of the circle swept by the
rotating blades.
SALVAGE YARD, JUNKYARD: Any location whose primary use is where waste or scrap
materials are stored, bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, packaged,
disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to, materials such as scrap
metals, paper, rags, tires and bottles.
SCHOOL: A group of teachers and students formed for the purpose of education.
SERVICE YARD: Any yard in which fuel, materials or other supplies are stored.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the nearest
ground point on the principal building including, but not limited to, steps,
chimney chases, porches and decks.
SHALL OR MAY: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
SIGN: An advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view
of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement or promotion of the
interests of any person, entity, product or service, including the sign
structure, supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features used to draw the attention of observers.
SIGN, CANOPY: An open air structure associated with gasoline pumps protecting
said pumps from rain, snow and sun.
SIGN FACE AREA: The total exterior surface of all faces of any sign. Odd shaped
signs shall be squared off for the purpose of measuring and determining the
sign face area.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign erected upon its own support and not attached to a
building.
SIGN, PROJECTING: Any sign supported by a building and projecting therefrom.
SIGN, WALL: Any sign painted on, incorporated in, or affixed to a building wall
or window; or any sign consisting of cutout letters or devices affixed to a
building wall or window with no background defined on the building wall or
window.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: Shall be construed to have its ordinary generally
accepted meanings and shall be limited to a single housekeeping unit, operating
on a noncommercial basis between its occupants, cooking and eating with a
common kitchen and dining area.
SITE PLAN: A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing the actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and other such
information.
SLOPE: The vertical change in a land surface calculated as follows:
H - L x 100 = % slope
  D
Where H is the highest elevation of the area for which slope is being
determined; L is the lowest elevation of the area for which slope is being
determined; and D is the horizontal distance between H and L measured
perpendicular to the contour lines.
STABLES: An area where horses are kept for the purpose of recreational riding
or boarding.
STACKING LANE: A one-way driving lane where vehicles line up for services from
a drive-up window.
STORY: That portion of building included between the upper surface of any floor
and the upper surface of the floor next above; except, that the topmost story
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused under floor space is more than six feet (6')
above "grade", as defined herein, for more than fifty percent (50%) of the
total perimeter, or is more than twelve feet (12') above "grade", as defined
herein, at any point, such usable or unused under floor space shall be
considered as a story.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story in a building that qualifies as a "story", as
defined herein; except, that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet (4') (1,219 mm) below "grade", as defined herein, for more
than fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet
(8') (2,438 mm) below "grade", as defined herein, at any point.
STREET: Any thoroughfare or public way not less than sixteen feet (16') in
width that has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use, whether
accepted for maintenance or not.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change to a structure, or subtraction of parts from
a structure, including changes to walls, columns, beams, girders, foundations,
doors, windows, or other similar component parts of a structure.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
SUBDIVISION: For the purpose of approval by the village council:
   A.   For the area of land within the corporate boundaries of the village,
the division of land into two (2) or more parts by platting or by metes and
bounds description into tracts for the purposes set forth in subsection C of
this definition; and
   B.   For the area of land within the village's extraterritorial platting
jurisdiction, the division of land into two (2) or more parts by platting or by
metes and bounds description into tracts of less than five (5) acres in any one
calendar year for the purposes set forth in subsection C of this definition.
   C.   The division of land pursuant to subsections A and B of this definition
shall be for the purpose of:
      1.   Sale for building purposes;
      2.   Laying out the village or any part thereof;
      3.   Adding to the village;
      4.   Laying out suburban lots; or
      5.   Resubdivision.
TEMPORARY BUILDING: Any building not placed on a permanent foundation, except
trailers or other structures used for the storage and safekeeping of equipment
and supplies during a construction project.
TOWER: A self-supporting structure such as a lattice tower or monopole, a guyed
tower, or a structure affixed to or mounted on an existing or newly constructed
building or other permanent structure, together with associated equipment,
designed to support one or more antennas.
USE: The activity occurring on a lot or parcel for which land or a building is
arranged, designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be
occupied, including all accessory uses.
USE, CHANGE OF: The change of a structure's or premises' uses.
USE, NONCONFORMING: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date hereof, which has been lawfully continued and which does not now
conform with this zoning code.
VARIANCE: The means by which an adjustment is made in the application of the
specific regulations of this zoning code to a particular piece of property,
which property, because of special circumstances applicable to it, is deprived
of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and
zone.
VETERINARY ESTABLISHMENT: An animal care facility operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the purpose of diagnosis and treatment, prevention, and
welfare of sick, injured, or healthy companion animals.
VIEWSHED: The area designated for public enjoyment of distant views from a
public right of way.
VILLAGE: The village of Angel Fire, Colfax County, New Mexico.
WALL: See definition of Fence.
WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE OR STORAGE: A building or premises in which goods,
merchandise or equipment is stored.
WATER, ACRE-FOOT: An area of land containing forty three thousand five hundred
sixty (43,560) square feet covered by water to a depth of one foot (1') equals
one acre-foot of water, or three hundred twenty five thousand eight hundred
fifty one (325,851) gallons of water.
WATER RIGHT: For the purposes of this code, a water right is a priority first
water right within the Canadian River ground water basin.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: Equipment that converts and then stores or transfers energy
from the wind into usable forms of energy, any base, blade, foundation,
generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, vane, wire, inverter, batteries
or other component used in the system.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL RESIDENTIAL: A wind energy system that is used to
generate electricity and has a nameplate capacity of ten (10) kilowatts or
less.
WIND ENERGY TOWER: The monopole, freestanding, or guyed structure that supports
a wind generator.
WIND GENERATOR: Blades and associated mechanical and electrical conversion
components mounted on top of the tower.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES: Any combination of one or more antennas,
towers and/or structures with equipment used for the transmission of wireless
communication.
YARD: An open, unoccupied space on a lot, other than a court, which is
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or structures except as
otherwise provided in this zoning code.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: The certificate issued by the village in accordance with
this zoning code and certifying compliance with the applicable district and
this zoning code. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2004-10, 11-4-
2004; Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2005-04, 7-18-2005; Ord. 2006-09, 8-17-
2006; Ord. 2008-05, 7-15-2008; Ord. 2008-11, 11-4-2008; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-
2024; Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
 
Notes
  1. See section
  8-1-1 of this code.1. The purpose of the building code is to provide minimum
1 standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by
  regulating and controlling the design, construction, and quality of
  materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of all buildings and
  structures within the village.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Planning And Zoning Commission
9-3-2: Enforcement Officials
9-3-3: Administrative And Permit Reviews And Approvals
9-3-4: Procedures For Permits And Certificates
9-3-5: Variances
9-3-6: Amendments
9-3-7: Fee And Deposit Schedule
9-3-8: Hearings And Appeals
9-3-9: Violations; Penalties
9-3-1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Purpose: This section establishes the planning authority of the Village
and sets forth its duties and responsibilities with respect to this title.
   B.   Commission Established; Appointment And Term; Vacancy: The commission
is hereby created and established, with five (5) members and one (1) alternate
member, each with one (1) vote. The alternate member may attend, participate
and fill in for a regular member, who is unable to attend a scheduled meeting
of the commission. Commissioners are appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Council. In appointing members to the commission, the Mayor
shall give due consideration to maintaining a balance of interests on the
commission and to the individual qualification and skill of each member.
Commissioners must reside within the Village limits. The term of each member
shall be two (2) years which are staggered and renewable by Mayor's appointment
with advice and consent of Council. A vacancy on the commission shall be filled
for the remainder of the unexpired term by appointment by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Council. (Ord. 2017-04, 6-13-2017)
A Commissioner may be removed by the Mayor on the recommendation of the
commission if:
      1.   A Commissioner misses three (3) consecutive meetings; or
      2.   A Commissioner misses five (5) meetings through the course of a
calendar year. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   C.   Organization:
      1.   Officers And Rules: A Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be elected
annually from the commission members at the first meeting in August. At that
meeting, the commission may adopt rules and procedures for its organization and
transaction of business. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
      2.   Meetings: The commission shall set a date and time for its regular
monthly meetings. The commission shall maintain minutes of its proceedings.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Quorum: A quorum is a majority of commission members. A quorum must
be present at any commission meeting. In order for the commission to conduct
business, only members physically present at the meeting place shall be
included in the quorum count. No vote may be by proxy or by any other remote
means.
      4.   Voting; Findings Of Fact:
         a.   Voting: A vote of a majority of the commission members present is
necessary to decide any matter under consideration. Each decision shall be
recorded in the minutes of each commission meeting.
         b.   Findings Of Fact:
            (1)   Development Proposal: The commission or the Council shall not
approve a development proposal unless the following have been found:
               (A) All required submittals have been made by the applicant; and
               (B) That the required notice has been complied with by the
applicant; and
               (C) That the proposal conforms to the cumulative requirements of
this title and other applicable Village, State and Federal regulations; and
               (D) That the proposed development provides for utilities, roads,
liquid waste and solid waste disposal, water supply and all other improvements
required by this title and necessary for the function of the development within
its location in the Village, in accordance with the standards set forth in this
title.
            (2)   Rezone: For any rezoning application, the commission and
Council shall also consider:
               (A) The need and justification for the zone change; and
               (B) The effect or impact of the change or development on
surrounding properties and the environment of the site, including the nature
and intensity of the proposed land use(s).
   D.   Duties And Powers:
      1.   Reports And Recommendations: The commission shall make periodic
reports and recommendations to the Council.
      2.   Master Plan:
         a.   The commission, with the assistance of staff, shall design and,
after public hearings, recommend to the Council a master plan for the physical
development of the Village ("plan"). The plan may include the extraterritorial
planning and platting area outside the Village boundaries that require
coordination with the planning of the Village.
         b.   The commission may also recommend amendments to the plan at any
time, but shall present amendments to the Council at least every five (5)
years.
      3.   Zoning Code: The commission shall recommend a zoning code to the
Council for adoption. Such zoning code shall be in accord with the plan. Such
plan may establish zones within the Village considering the character of each
zone and the most appropriate use of land within the Village.
      4.   Subdivision Regulations: The commission shall recommend subdivision
regulations to the Council for adoption. Such subdivision regulations shall be
in accordance with the master plan.
      5.   Conditional Use Permits: The commission shall review and recommend
action to the Council on each conditional use permit application. The granting
of a conditional use permit shall not exempt the applicant from compliance with
other relevant provisions of applicable ordinances.
      6.   Variances: A request for variance shall be filed with the Planning
and Zoning Office. The commission shall review and recommend action to the
Council on each variance request.
      7.   Special Development Permits: An application for a special
development permit may be subject to Council approval, considering the
commission's recommendations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
      8.   Decisions: The commission may enter any decision within its
authority and shall make recommendations to the Council, which decisions and
recommendations shall be consistent with the spirit and intent of this title.
Positive recommendations of approval by the commission shall be forwarded to
the Council for approval. Negative recommendations of the commission shall not
be forwarded to the Council unless appealed by the applicant in accordance to
subsection
9-3-8B of this chapter. The Director shall notify the applicant of any
recommendation within ten (10) days of the commission's decision. (Ord. 2004-
03, 4-20-2004)
      9.   Decision Time Limit: Commission recommendations to Council shall be
valid for a period of eighty (80) days from the date of official
recommendation. If, after the commission sends a positive recommendation to
Council and an applicant subsequently requests that a case be tabled or
withheld from a timely Council agenda for consideration, then the commission
recommendation shall become invalid after eighty one (81) days. (Ord. 2006-09,
8-17-2006)
9-3-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
This section establishes the responsibilities of the zoning official and the
Planning and Zoning Coordinator with respect to the administration of this
title and describes the role of the building official in the administration and
application of this title.
   A.   Planning And Zoning Coordinator: The Planning and Zoning Coordinator
(Coordinator) is an employee of the Village charged by the Village to ensure
that the processes, procedures and directives of this title are followed as
well as the directives and decisions made by the commission and the Council.
The Coordinator may make recommendations with respect to any decision coming
before the commission and the Council.
   B.   Zoning Official: The zoning official (including any designee and/or
Code Enforcement Officer) is an employee of the Village charged by the Village
to ensure that the directives of this title are followed as well as the
directives and decisions made by the commission and the Council. The zoning
official or designee shall be responsible for:
      1.   Enforcing this title;
      2.   Inspecting sites to ensure compliance with all items on the
application and plans; and
      3.   Issuing a "desist order" (red tag) if a property or construction for
which this title is applicable is not in compliance.
   C.   Deputies And Assistants:
      1.   The Coordinator and zoning official may appoint technical officers
and other employees as may be needed from time to time in accordance with the
personnel ordinance 1
      2.   The Coordinator and zoning official may request, through the Village
Administrator, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the Village
in the administration and enforcement of this title.
   D.   Nonliability Of Enforcement Officials: The zoning official and
Coordinator are each charged with the enforcement of this title, and when
acting in good faith, without malice and within the scope of and in the
discharge of the duties described in this title, shall not be personally liable
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of such duties. Any suit
brought because of or based upon this title or the actions or omissions
performed by an employee of the Village shall be defended by the Village until
resolution. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2 of this Code.1 of the Village.
9-3-3: ADMINISTRATIVE AND PERMIT REVIEWS AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Compliance With State And Federal Regulations: All projects must meet
applicable State and Federal rules and procedures.
   B.   Review:
      1.   Building Permits:
         a.   All applications for building permits shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Office of the Village for review by the Coordinator, prior
to submission to the State of New Mexico and shall be approved according to
procedures established by this title. Each application shall include one set of
building plans and all data necessary to demonstrate that the requirements of
all applicable codes are met. Include a detailed scope of work for any new
additions/remodels/alterations, made to any existing structure.
         b.   Slopes twelve percent (12%) or greater shall require a building
pad profile and attached building elements such as decks to be submitted to the
Village as part of the required building plans. Property lines and setback
lines are to be shown on the profile, along with drainage swales when required.
On sites connecting to Village utilities, existing water lines and sewer lines
with invert elevations shall be shown on the profile.
         c.   All commercial/multi-family construction projects larger than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet will need site plan approval by the Council.
Commercial projects of any size will be required to also follow all applicable
State regulations and rules of procedures.
         d.   The building official for Construction Industries Division is
responsible for issuing building permits.
      2.   Zoning Certificates: The Coordinator will review all projects
requiring zoning certificates and be responsible for issuing the certificates.
      3.   Special Development Permits: Projects to be included in any special
development area shall be reviewed by the Council. The Coordinator may issue
the permit.
      4.   Conditional Use Permits: All applications for conditional use
permits shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Office. The zoning official
and Coordinator shall review conditional use permit applications for
completeness and prepare recommendations for consideration by the commission
and Council.
      5.   Sign And Banner Permits: All sign and banner permit applications
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Office for review by the zoning
official and shall be approved in accordance with this title.
      6.   Use Determinations: Any person may apply to the commission for a
determination as to whether a proposed specific use is expressly or
conditionally permitted. Within a zoning district such determination shall be
based on an analysis of the intention of the zoning district and the
compatibility and consistency of the proposed specific use with permitted and
conditional uses in such district. All permitted and conditional uses within
each zoning district are subject to additional regulations as contained in this
title and any other ordinances and regulations adopted by the Village or any
other governmental entity with jurisdiction. The application for determination
shall be subject to the Council's approval and considered with the commission's
recommendation.
      7.   Variances: Requests for variances shall be made to the Planning and
Zoning Office and decided by the Council with the commission's recommendation.
      8.   Amendments: Requests for amendments to this title or the zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Office for review and are then
subject to Council approval, considering the commission's recommendation.
      9.   Engineering Review:
         a.   The Village may engage a professional engineer if the Coordinator
decides that an engineering review is necessary to verify whether an
application meets all Village development and construction. The applicant shall
pay for the costs of such engineering review. The engineer retained by the
Village shall not be associated with the applicant.
         b.   The Village shall notify the applicant of the Coordinator's
decision requiring an engineering review and provide the applicant with the
estimated cost of such review.
         c.   The applicant shall submit in writing verification of his
financial responsibility sufficient to pay the estimated engineering review
cost before the application review shall continue.
      10.   Mobile Offices: Mobile offices shall be allowed at commercial
construction sites, provided there is an active building permit at the site. A
mobile office shall be removed from the site prior to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy for the same building permit.
   C.   Approvals:
      1.   Generally: All zoning certificates, sign permits, other building and
use permits, variances and other approvals and permits related to zoning and
building and issued by or on behalf of the Village shall conform to this title,
as applicable. More than one building permit or approval may be required for a
project and all must be applied for and approved.
      2.   Expiration Or Cancellation:
         a.   Expiration: Each permit or approval issued pursuant to this title
shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance if no work is
undertaken or the use is not established, unless an extension is granted by the
Coordinator for up to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) days.
         b.   Cancellation: Failure to comply fully with the terms of any
permit or approval may be grounds for cancellation or revocation. Action to
cancel any permit or approval may be taken on proper grounds by the Coordinator
or the zoning official under authority of the Village. Cancellation of a permit
may be appealed in the same manner as its approval.
      3.   Validity Of Permits And Approvals: The issuance of any permit or
approval under authority of the Village ordinances shall require that the
development or use in question proceed only in accordance with the terms of
such permit or approval, including conditions of issuance. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-
2018)
9-3-4: PROCEDURES FOR PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Application Fees:
      1.   The Village shall charge a fee for all permit applications
sufficient to cover related Village expenses. The Village is authorized to
charge additional fees that are necessary to offset expenses occasioned by
applications not combined with zoning certificate applications or that require
special or extra publications.
      2.   Fees for special commission or Council meetings, or necessary
consulting fees shall be set by Council resolution.
   B.   Zoning Certificates:
      1.   Requirements For Zoning And Occupancy Certificates:
         a.   Any change in use (classification) shall require a new
certificate of occupancy and a zoning certificate. (Example: changing from a
multi-family use to a business use.)
         b.   Temporary buildings or tents shall require a zoning certificate
before installation.
         c.   Any change of a building's use requires the issuance of a
business registration after a zoning certificate is granted.
         d.   Zoning certificates shall be issued only if the proposed change
of the building or use of the building or land is in full conformance with this
title.
         e.   The provision for parking shall meet the requirements of this
title for the new use.
         f.   The zoning official shall monitor and inspect the work being
performed.
         g.   After the issuance of a zoning certificate and/or building
permit, any substantial deviation from the plans, application or
representations requires a new zoning certificate or building permit, which
shall be applied for and considered in the same manner as the original
application.
         h.   Any application or other request made pursuant to this title
shall be made by the owner of the property or by the authorized legal
representative.
         i.   Any permits, approvals, conditions, or other decisions made
pursuant to this title shall benefit and/or bind such applicant, the owner and
the owner's heirs or assigns.
      2.   Application Procedure:
         a.   All applications for permits shall be made on forms provided by
the Village for that purpose and shall be accompanied by all required documents
and fees including, but not limited to, the following:
            (1)   Name, address and phone number of owner and/or applicant.
            (2)   The legal description of the property and proof of ownership.
            (3)   A site plan of the lot or parcel, drawn to a one inch to
twenty foot (1" = 20') scale, showing the dimensions of the lot, easements,
rights-of-way, location of existing building(s), location of proposed building,
propane tank, fence, landscaping, exterior lighting plan, septic system, and
dumpster location, if required in that zone.
            (4)   A site plan showing the topographic contours of not more than
five foot (5') intervals covering the entire lot.
            (5)   Plans showing the height and elevation of the existing and
proposed structures and the exterior walls and roof thereof, drawn to one-
fourth inch to one foot (1/4" = 1') scale. (1/8 inch to 1 foot scale may be
used for large projects.)
            (6)   A floor plan at a scale drawn to one-fourth inch to one foot
(1/4" = 1') scale. (1/8 inch to 1 foot scale may be used for large projects.)
            (7)   A statement concerning the use to be made of such building or
structure.
            (8)   A statement, if needed, setting forth the necessary
variances, conditional uses, or conditional waivers, or other specific reviews
being requested.
            (9)   The signature of the owner of the property or of some other
person with written legal authority of the owner.
            (10)   Any other information specifically requested by the
Coordinator or the Council in order to review the application for compliance
with this title or any other Village ordinance or code.
         b.   Applications, when complete, shall be reviewed for compliance
with this title, and if the application and associated filings are in such
conformance, they shall be approved by the Coordinator. Upon approval, a zoning
certificate shall be issued.
   C.   Building Permits:
      1.   Administration 1
         a.   The Building Codes 2
         b.   The building official of the State of New Mexico is authorized
and directed to enforce the provisions of the Building Code. For such purposes,
the building official has the powers of a law enforcement officer and is to be
appropriately sworn in to serve as such.
         c.   The building official shall have the power to render
interpretations of the Building Code and to adopt and enforce rules and
supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretation, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent
and purpose of the Building Code. The State building official shall have the
authority to issue building permits.
      2.   Application Procedure; Building Permit Requirements:
         a.   To obtain a building permit, the applicant shall first file an
application with the Planning and Zoning Department to assure they are meeting
the zoning requirements of this Code. Along with the zoning application the
original State application, on a form furnished by the Building Code
Enforcement Agency for that purpose, must be included for proper signatures by
the Code Enforcement Officer or Coordinator. Every application shall:
            (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit
for which application is made;
            (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by
legal description, street address or similar description that will readily
identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
            (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
            (4)   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and
specifications and other data as may be required by the building official;
            (5)   State the valuation based on the replacement cost of any new
building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing
building; and
            (6)   Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant's agent.
         b.   Documents, including one set of plans, shall be submitted along
with the necessary specifications, engineering calculations, diagrams, soil
investigation reports, special inspection and structural observation programs
and other data as requested by the building official.
         c.   Any property owner or his agent may apply for a building permit.
         d.   All complete applications shall be reviewed and are subject to
approval by the zoning official.
         e.   Every building permit issued by the building official pursuant to
the provisions of the Building Code shall expire by limitation and become null
and void if the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such permit, or if the
building or work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any
time after the work is commenced for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days.
Within one year of work stoppage, work may begin again after the permittee has
paid a full permit fee.
         f.   An unexpired permit may be extended, suspended or revoked by the
building official as provided in the Building Code.
         g.   All plans and work must meet the requirements of the Building
Code.
         h.   The building official will inspect all permitted work as allowed
and required by the Building Code.
         i.   All water and sewer hookup fees and any overdue fees owed to the
Village by owner or contractor must be paid before a permit is issued.
         j.   A survey of the lot showing actual location of the finished
exterior wall will be required by the Planning and Zoning Department before the
framing inspection is requested to verify that the structure is located in
accordance with the approved plans. (The finished interior wall may be
extrapolated from the stem wall or the sill plate.)
         k.   All building setbacks shall be measured horizontally from the
property lines to the vertical plane of the finished exterior wall.
         l.   A preliminary site inspection shall be performed by the zoning
official before issuance of a building permit for new construction including
additions.
         m.   For all new building permits, the subject lot will be thinned in
accordance with the community assessments of the community wildfire protection
plan and section
9-7-13 of this title. The Village Forester will identify a specific
prescription for each new building permit. The lot must be thinned as part of
the construction site preparation and prior to the final inspection.
The Village Forester shall also determine if adjacent lots to the subject lot
need to be thinned to protect the new structure being erected. If such a
determination is made, compliance will be done through section
9-6-1 of this title. The Village Forester will prepare specific thinning
prescriptions in accordance with the community assessments of the community
wildfire protection plan.
If the building permit is for something other than new construction, for
example, additions or detached garages, the Village Forester will make the
determination as to which portion of the lot will be thinned in accordance with
the community assessments of the community wildfire protection plan. The
Village Forester will identify a specific prescription for each new building
permit. The lot must be thinned as part of the construction of the permitted
work.
The Village Forester shall also determine if adjacent lots to the subject lot
need to be thinned to protect the new structure being erected. If such a
determination is made, compliance will be done through section
9-6-1 of this title. The Village Forester will prepare specific thinning
prescriptions in accordance with the community assessments of the community
wildfire protection plan and section
9-7-13 of this title.
      3.   Inspections And Certificate Of Occupancy:
         a.   In addition to the foundation survey required in subsection C2j
of this section, all other required inspections are outlined in the Building
Codes of the State.
         b.   A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or
reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not
complete, when corrections called for are not made and for other reasons as
described in the Building Codes.
         c.   No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change
in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion
thereof shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor as provided in the Building Codes.
         d.   Changes in the character or use of a building shall not be made
except as specified in the Building Code for existing buildings.
         e.   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued after all required
inspections have been made. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be
construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this title or of
other ordinances of the Village.
      4.   Violations:
         a.   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of the
Building Code, or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the
enforcement of this title, the building official of the State of New Mexico or
the Code Enforcement Officer may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
building official of the State and the Code Enforcement Officer to proceed with
the work.
         b.   Whenever any building or structure or equipment therein regulated
by the Building Code is being used contrary to the provisions of this title,
the zoning official may order such use discontinued and the structure, or
portion thereof, vacated by notice served on any person causing such use to be
continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by
the building official and zoning official after receipt of such notice to make
the structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this title.
         c.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon receiving conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day during which such illegal
construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or use continues shall
be deemed a separate offense. In addition, or as an alternative to such fine
and/or imprisonment, the Village may seek other remedies provided in law or
equity including, but not limited to, damages, injunctions, mandamus, or
abatement. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
   D.   Construction Time:
      1.   Unless additional time is granted for good cause, all interior and
exterior construction must be totally completed within one year of the building
permit date with a single one year extension available.
      2.   If not completed within twenty four (24) months, the building permit
and approval shall be null and void. In order to complete construction, a new
building permit shall be applied for and obtained.
      3.   Any modification, alteration, or addition to any structure, for
which a zoning certificate, building permit or other permit under this title is
required, shall not be occupied or used prior to the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   E.   Desist Order:
      1.   Should the zoning official discover any construction or use of
property within the Village in violation of this title, other Village
ordinances or any New Mexico Statute, the zoning official shall attach a
"desist order" to the property in a conspicuous place. The zoning official
shall attempt to deliver a copy of the "desist order" to the owner or builder
of the property. Any "desist order" shall be signed by the zoning official and
shall indicate the subject area in which the violation exists. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
      2.   The removal of a "desist order" before the violation is corrected
shall constitute a violation of this title. The continuation of construction or
use in violation of a "desist order" shall also constitute a violation of this
title.
   F.   Payment Of Overdue Fees: No zoning certificate or building permit shall
be issued by the Village for any lot, parcel or structure until all fees or
other assessments and taxes due to the Village by the owner or contractor,
whether or not the fees are in connection with said lot, parcel, or structure,
have been paid in full.
   G.   Performance Deposit:
      1.   The Village shall collect a performance deposit, imposed in
accordance with the permit fee and deposit schedule resolutions adopted by
Council, for any zoning certificate or building permit application. The
performance deposit shall be used to ensure that the following items receive a
final inspection by the building official and are completed within twenty four
(24) months:
         a.   The site has been properly cleaned up and landscaped in
accordance with the approved plans.
         b.   Compliance with the zoning certificate, encroachment permit and
Environment Department permit, if applicable.
         c.   Project has been completed in accordance with approved plans and
specifications.
         d.   A certificate of occupancy has been issued.
      2.   If the owner/builder fails or refuses to complete the foregoing
items, the deposit may be retained. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
      3.   If the owner and/or builder fails to complete the project within the
limits of the original building permit and fails to obtain a time extension,
the deposit may be forfeited. Construction time shall not be extended beyond
twenty four (24) months. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Should the site fail an inspection, a charge may be added to cover
the cost of an additional inspection.
      5.   Failure of the owner, builder or authorized representative to be
present at a final Village inspection may be sufficient grounds for failure of
the final inspection.
      6.   The site cleanup includes adjacent lots where construction trash has
blown or been placed.
      7.   Occupancy of a building without a certificate of occupancy is a
violation of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   H.   Refunds: All requests for refunds shall be made within ninety (90) days
of final issuance of a certificate of occupancy in writing by, for, or on
behalf of the original payor or legal representative. A forfeiture of refund
shall occur if request is not made within the ninety (90) day period.
      1.   Zoning Certificate And Building Permit Fees:
         a.   If the certificate or permit application is withdrawn before any
plan review is done, eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee may be refunded. If
the written refund request is made after the plans have been reviewed, fifty
percent (50%) of the permit fee may be refunded. No refund shall be granted
after two (2) years from the permit application date. (Ord. 2007-03, 4-18-2007)
         b.   A refund shall be issued only if the original payee files a
written refund request. Written authorization by the original payee is required
to transfer the refund to a legal representative, unless original payee has
become deceased or incapacitated. (Ord. 2007-03, 4-18-2007; amd. Ord. 2013-07,
8-13-2013)
      2.   Performance Deposit:
         a.   The performance deposit shall be refunded after an inspection
determines that compliance with the criteria in subsection G of this section
has occurred.
         b.   If a building permit is suspended or revoked at any time during
construction, or a change of contractor has occurred, the Village may retain up
to eighty five percent (85%) of the performance deposit of the original payor
or legal representative. A new deposit will then be required, unless the
revoked or suspended permit is lifted before the two (2) year period has
exhausted.
         c.   After the Planning and Zoning Office has received a written
request for the refund, the estimated refund will be made to the payor of the
original performance deposit unless such payor provides written authorization
to another legal representative, unless original payee has become deceased or
incapacitated, to receive the refund. There will be no performance deposit
refund if the project is not completed prior to the expiration of the building
permit up to a maximum of twenty four (24) months. (Ord. 2007-03, 4-18-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-2 of this Code.1:
  2. See also section
  8-1-1 of this Code.2, as most recently adopted and as amended by the State of
2 New Mexico, shall be used to regulate the erection, construction,
  enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
  occupancy, equipment, use, height, surfacing, resurfacing, area and
  maintenance of structures and buildings within the Village.
9-3-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application For Variance: An application for a variance from the
provisions of this title shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Office. At
the time of application, the applicant will submit the list of property owners
and their mailing addresses within a two hundred foot (200') radius of the
subject variance application, excluding rights-of-way. The Village will notify
surrounding property owners pursuant to subsection
9-3-6E of this chapter.
   B.   Types Of Variances:
      1.   Granting Of Variance: The Council may grant a variance from the
terms of this title with respect to:
         a.   Total size, area, bulk, or open space requirements;
         b.   Criteria for buildings;
         c.   Lot area;
         d.   Floor area;
         e.   Height;
         f.   Slope;
         g.   Setbacks; and
         h.   Parking and other building or lot characteristics not associated
with the use or uses.
      2.   Changing Of Uses By Variance Prohibited: The Village Council shall
not change the uses, permitted or conditional, as set forth in this title, by
variance.
      3.   Not Eligible:
         a.   Self-inflicted hardships are not eligible for a variance. A
"self-inflicted hardship" is the owner or occupant of said property creating
their own hardship by violating the code in respect to building or occupying
property in violation of this title without first going through the proper
legal means of the variance procedure as outlined in this section.
      4.   Village Council shall consider variances to the spacing requirements
for the sale of alcohol in conjunction with a restaurant use and a church or
school.
         a.   Applicants must submit a site plan with the following items
listed:
         (1)   Alcohol survey that identifies the spacing variance. If the uses
are located on the same property, a measurement shall be shown between the
front door of the restaurant and the front door of the protected use.
         (2)   Name, address and contact information for property owner of
restaurant use.
         (3)   Name, address and contact information for restaurant operator.
         (4)   Name, address and contact information for church or school.
         b.   Required filing fee.
         c.   Approved applications shall be scheduled for Village Council
consideration within thirty (30) days of submittal.
   C.   Criteria For Council Decision: In considering a variance application,
the Council shall consider any recommendations of the commission and the
Coordinator and determine whether:
      1.   An exceptional situation exists whereby the strict application of
this title would result in practical difficulties or undue hardship to the
owner of such property; or
      2.   Such variance will result in a public benefit to the citizens of the
community; and
      3.   The variance is consistent with the objectives and purposes of this
title and the applicable zoning districts of the Village.
   D.   Additional Conditions:
      1.   In granting a variance, the Council shall require the applicant to
comply with any conditions deemed to be in the best interests of the Village.
      2.   The Council may require a performance bond or financial performance
guarantees to ensure that conditions imposed on the variance or representations
of the applicant are satisfied.
   E.   Administrative Variance:
      1.   The Coordinator shall have the discretion to grant a two and one-
half percent (2.5%) variance to any dimensional requirement from the provisions
of this title, provided the applicant can demonstrate that the request can meet
the criteria outlined in subsections C and D of this section. In addition, the
Coordinator may add conditions to the applicant's request. If the applicant is
not willing to accept condition(s) imposed by the Coordinator, then the
Coordinator shall forward the variance to the commission.
      2.   The applicant of an administrative variance shall submit a letter
from the adjacent property owner(s) directly affected by the granting of an
administrative variance stating that he/she has no objections to the granting
of the administrative variance.
   F.   Public Recordation: The property owner or applicant shall record the
variance with all conditions imposed with the County Clerk and provide a copy
of the recorded variance to the Village. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018; amd. Ord.
2023-05, 6-27-2023)
9-3-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: A zoning district may be amended, supplemented, changed,
modified, or repealed by the Council.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendment: Any person, group of persons, the commission,
or the Council may file an application at the Planning and Zoning Office
seeking to change a zoning district. When initiated by any person or persons, a
nonrefundable filing fee set by Council resolution, together with such an
additional amount as may be determined necessary by the Council to cover
administrative costs, including the costs of publication, shall accompany such
request.
   C.   Application For Amendment: Any application for an amendment,
supplement, change, modification, or repeal of a zoning district shall contain
the following:
      1.   A description of any land to be rezoned, together with a diagram
drawn to scale showing the boundaries of the area requested to be rezoned.
      2.   A statement of the present zoning and the requested new zoning.
      3.   A statement of justification for such action, including facts
concerning any change of conditions, an error in the original zoning, or the
unusual or peculiar suitability of a lot to a certain use.
      4.   A description of the land uses of property within two hundred feet
(200') (not including rights-of-way) in all directions of the boundary lines of
the area proposed for change.
      5.   A statement of the effects of the new zoning change on adjacent
areas or uses.
      6.   The names and addresses of all owners of property contiguous to and
within two hundred feet (200') in all directions of the boundaries of the area
proposed for change (not including rights- of-way) in digital form compatible
with Word, Excel, or Access.
   D.   Review:
      1.   Upon filing of any application for a proposed amendment, supplement,
change, modification, or repeal of a zoning district, the commission shall
review the application at any regular meeting or special meeting.
      2.   At the commission's discretion, the approval process may continue.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   E.   Notification Of Property Owners:
      1.   Notification by first class mail shall be made to the property
owners, both of the area of the lots included in such application and those in
the area immediately adjacent to the area included in the application,
extending two hundred feet (200') in all directions, excluding rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2006-03, 1-19-2006)
      2.   Included in the notification shall be the means of entering protest,
a summary of the proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or
repeal, and the public hearing date, time and location.
   F.   Public Hearing:
      1.   The Village shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment,
supplement, change, modification, or repeal of a zoning district. (Ord. 2002-
02, 1-17-2002)
      2.   The hearing shall be held after the review by the commission. Notice
of the time, place, purpose, and location of the public hearing shall be posted
and published fourteen (14) days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd.
2003 Code)
      3.   The Village shall cause notices of the proposed zoning change to be
posted on the subject property, or representative parcels, if the proposed
change will affect a zoning district at large. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   G.   Protests: (Rep. by Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   H.   Decision: The application for zoning district change shall go to the
Council with the commission's recommendation. The majority vote of Council
shall determine whether application will be granted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-3-7: FEE AND DEPOSIT SCHEDULE:
The building permit fee and deposit schedule resolutions, as adopted and
hereafter amended by the Council, shall state the fees and deposits to be
charged. The Village shall charge double the normal fees for work started and
signs or banners displayed before a required permit is issued. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-8: HEARINGS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Public Hearings:
      1.   Compliance With Law: Public hearings shall be conducted according to
law and this title.
      2.   Hearing Body; Date And Time: Any public hearing required by this
title shall be held by and before the commission on a date and at a time and
place established by the Coordinator.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing:
         a.   Notice of a public hearing shall be made by publication ten (10)
days prior to the hearing. The notice shall be posted in locations used for
public notices. Publishing shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the Village.
         b.   Such notice shall state the nature of the action being
considered, the location of the property involved, and the date, time and place
of the public hearing.
      4.   Costs: The applicant is responsible for all costs associated with
the public hearing, including notice of such hearing which shall be reflected
in the application fee.
      5.   Appearances: The applicant, any resident, or property owner of land
within the Village who desires to advocate or oppose an application may appear
at a public hearing in person, by agent or attorney or respond in writing.
      6.   Recommendations: The commission shall make recommendation to the
Council on any matter presented to it not later than thirty five (35) days
after the hearing.
   B.   Appeals:
      1.   General Provisions: Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
commission, zoning official, or Coordinator may appeal by written request to
the Planning and Zoning Office. The appeal shall first be heard by the
commission and then presented to the Council with the commission's
recommendation for final decision. A record of the appeal shall be made and the
applicant shall be notified in writing of any decision. An appeal of a negative
recommendation by the commission shall be heard by the Council, without further
commission hearing or recommendation.
      2.   Time Limit: An appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days of
written notification of the decision of the commission, zoning official, or
Coordinator. At the time of appeal application, the applicant will submit the
list of property owners within a two hundred foot (200') radius of the subject
application, excluding rights-of-way. The Village will notify surrounding
property owners pursuant to subsection
9-3-6E of this chapter.
      3.   Stays Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings.
      4.   Notice Of Decision: The official minutes of the Council meetings
shall constitute written notice of the decision and the disposition of each
appeal. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
9-3-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or
maintain any building or land or cause or permit the same to be done in
violation of this title.
      2.   When any building or parcel of land regulated by this title is being
used contrary to this title, the zoning official may order such use
discontinued and the structure, parcel of land, or portion thereof, vacated by
notice served on any person causing such use to be continued. Such person shall
discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the zoning official after
receipt of such notice and make the structure, parcel of land, or portion
thereof, comply with the requirements of this title.
      3.   Any person who does not build according to the plans and plats
approved by the building permit shall be in violation of this title.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   The zoning official and/or Coordinator, on behalf of the Village,
may enforce this title in Municipal Court.
      2.   Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be subject
to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   C.   Cumulative Remedies: The remedies provided in this title are cumulative
and not exclusive and are in addition to other remedies provided or permitted
by law. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 4
EXISTING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Determination Of Nonconformities; Continuation
9-4-2: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
9-4-3: Loss Of Nonconforming Status
9-4-4: Enlargements And Modifications
9-4-5: Changes In Nonconforming Use
9-4-6: Nonconforming Open Storage
9-4-7: Inspection Of New Businesses
9-4-1: DETERMINATION OF NONCONFORMITIES; CONTINUATION:
   A.   Nonconforming Uses: If, on the effective date of this zoning code or of
any amendment hereto, any lot, structure, sign, or building is being used in an
otherwise lawful manner, in accordance with any applicable conditions of
approval and in accordance with the health, safety and welfare of the village
and its residents, that does not conform to the provisions of this zoning code,
the use shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Such use may continue in the
manner and to the extent that it existed on such effective date.
   B.   Nonconforming Buildings And Structures: Nonconforming buildings and
structures are those which were within the village on the effective date of
this zoning code or of any amendment hereto and which fail to meet the
provisions of this zoning code and the minimum requirements and occupancy
standards established by the building codes, as adopted by the state, for the
safety and welfare of the public. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-4-2: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED 1
The international property maintenance code shall be known as the property
maintenance code of the village of Angel Fire. The provisions of this code
shall apply to all existing residential and nonresidential structures and all
existing premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for
premises, structures, equipment, and facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises. A copy of the property maintenance code is available
for review at the building inspection office. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd.
Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-1 of this code.1:
9-4-3: LOSS OF NONCONFORMING STATUS:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Use: Any lot, structure, or portion thereof occupied
by a nonconforming use which is or hereafter becomes vacant and/or remains
unoccupied by a nonconforming use for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days
shall not thereafter be occupied, except by a use which conforms to this title
and only after being inspected and determined to be in compliance with this
title and other village regulations by the code official. (Ord. 2006-09, 8-17-
2006)
   B.   Destruction Of Structure Or Use: If any nonconforming structure or use
is, by any cause, destroyed to the extent of seventy five percent (75%) of its
market value as determined by the code official, it shall not thereafter be
reconstructed as a nonconforming structure or use.
   C.   Change Of Ownership:
      1.   A nonconforming use does not continue if the building, structure, or
premises upon which it exists is sold.
      2.   Upon sale, a nonconforming structure must conform to this zoning
code or a conditional use permit applied for and granted for the nonconforming
use to continue to be occupied. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-4-4: ENLARGEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Enlargements And Modifications Prohibited; Maintenance And Repair:
Except as hereinafter provided, a nonconforming use shall not be enlarged,
expanded, or altered except to make the use conform to this zoning code.
Maintenance and minor repairs necessary to keep a nonconforming use in a safe
and continued usable condition are permitted.
   B.   Additions: All additions to nonconforming structures shall conform to
this zoning code. Additions to structures housing nonconforming uses that
increase the area of a nonconforming use are not permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-
17-2002)
9-4-5: CHANGES IN NONCONFORMING USE:
A nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land shall not be changed
except to a conforming use, and thereafter, the use may not revert to the
former use or become any other nonconforming use. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-4-6: NONCONFORMING OPEN STORAGE:
Any land within the village used for open storage, unlicensed landfill, or a
junkyard and found to adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare of
the village shall be discontinued, abated or made to conform to the provisions
of this zoning code. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-4-7: INSPECTION OF NEW BUSINESSES:
The premises (new or existing) to be occupied by any new business shall be
inspected by the code official prior to occupancy. All inspections must be
passed. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 5
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Permit Requirements
9-5-2: Amendment To Conditional Use
9-5-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Conditional use permits are required for:
      1.   Any use requiring special conditions to comply with this zoning
code.
      2.   Any uses involving or producing a hazardous activity.
      3.   Churches, schools, public and quasi-public utilities, parks,
greenbelts, golf course, planned unit developments (PUDs), bed and breakfasts,
adult use businesses, grazing areas, and off site parking lots.
      4.   Any uses that may be harmonious under special conditions and in
specific locations within a zone, but may not be allowed under the general
conditions of the zone as stated in this zoning code. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   B.   Application For Permit: All conditional use permit applications shall
be submitted to the planning and zoning office. A detailed site plan
identifying all proposed structures, driving aisles, parking areas,
landscaping, open space/snow storage areas, signage, lighting, and other
documents as required shall accompany all applications. At the time of
application, the applicant will submit the list of property owners within a two
hundred foot (200') radius of the subject application, excluding rights of way.
The village will notify surrounding property owners pursuant to subsection
9-3-6E of this zoning code. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   C.   Council Decision:
      1.   The council may impose conditions and safeguards to protect and
enhance the health, safety, and welfare of the village.
      2.   The use will otherwise comply with zoning code provisions for such
use. The council shall itemize and describe all such conditions on the use. All
such conditions shall be affixed to and made a part of the site plan.
   D.   Restrictions On Certain Approvals: Any conditional use permit applied
for that may create unusual traffic hazards, noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke,
vapor, vibration, glare, or industrial waste disposal problems shall only be
approved with the following conditions:
      1.   The use shall be operated within an enclosed structure.
      2.   Noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, vibration, glare, or waste
shall be confined to the lot in which the use is permitted.
      3.   Outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed from
the view of abutting residential districts and public rights of way.
      4.   Compliance shall be made with appropriate county, state and federal
environmental and other regulations.
   E.   Expiration And Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Conditions of approval may be amended or revoked by the council if
the conditions are not met and/or maintained.
      2.   If not exercised, a conditional use permit shall expire at the end
of six (6) months from the date of its approval. A conditional use permit is
exercised when the use is established or when a building permit is issued and
substantial construction accomplished. If a permit is abandoned or discontinued
for a period of six (6) months, it expires unless reauthorized by the council.
The conditional use permit remains valid for the use as approved and if it
complies with the conditions of its approval.
      3.   A conditional use permit may be revoked if the conditions of
approval are not satisfied, or upon any change of ownership, lease, or use of
the property. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-5-2: AMENDMENT TO CONDITIONAL USE:
A request for an amendment to an approved conditional use permit, including any
modification of a building or use of a property, shall be submitted to the
planning and zoning office, accompanied by supporting information as identified
by the director. The commission shall review the amendment and make a
recommendation to the council to: a) grant; b) deny; or c) modify such
amendment request with any conditions deemed appropriate to continue the
conditional use permit, as amended. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 6
NUISANCES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Statement Of Nuisance Conditions
9-6-2: Dangerous Buildings; Order To Remove; Removal By Village
9-6-3: Penalty For Failure To Remove
9-6-1: STATEMENT OF NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Property Nuisance; Prohibited Conditions: It shall be unlawful for any
person owning, leasing, renting, occupying or having charge or possession of
any real property in a manner where any of the following conditions are found
to exist thereon, except as may be allowed by any other provision of law,
including provisions of ordinances of the village: (Ord. 2012-01, 1-10-2012)
      1.   Dirt, Litter And Debris: The accumulation of dirt, litter or debris.
      2.   Boxes, Bins And Similar Materials: The accumulation and/or storage
of boxes, bins, containers, lumber, junk, trash, salvage materials or other
similar materials without first providing proper and tight buildings, fences or
screened containment areas for storage of such material as specified in this
title.
      3.   Nuisances Dangerous To Children: Attractive nuisances dangerous to
children, including abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, machinery,
appliances, refrigerators and freezers, as well as hazardous pools, ponds and
excavations and/or dangerous containers.
      4.   Furnishings And Appliances: Broken or discarded furniture, household
equipment, appliances, and furnishings, or shopping carts.
      5.   Weeds: Growth of weeds, noxious weeds, vegetation or other nuisances
which:
         a.   Are likely to harbor flies, insects, rodents or vermin.
         b.   Are dangerous to public health, safety and welfare.
         c.   Are obstructing a necessary view of drivers on public streets,
roads, clear sight triangles, or driveways.
      6.   Hazardous Trees: Hazardous trees as follows:
         a.   Dead trees; fallen trees across property lines.
         b.   Trees leaning toward a target (i.e., a structure, etc.) on
adjoining property which pose a clear and present threat to health and/or
property.
         c.   Trees and/or portions thereof that possess significant structural
damage, which pose a clear and present threat to health and/or property.
         d.   Diseased or infested trees that present a threat to live trees on
adjacent properties. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
         e.   Trees suffering from stunted growth due to density of tree
stands.
         f.   Trees and vegetation that represent a fire hazard. (Ord. 2010-05,
4-20-2010)
      7.   Vehicle Parts: Vehicle parts or other articles of personal property
which are abandoned or left in a state of partial construction or repair.
      8.   Inoperable Or Abandoned Mobile Homes, Trailers, Vehicles, Etc.:
Inoperable or abandoned mobile homes, recreational vehicles, utility trailers,
unmounted camper tops, boats, horse trailers, cars, trucks and airplanes or
other vehicles that are parked or stored in violation of section
9-7-9 of this title.
      9.   Graffiti: Graffiti on the exterior of any building, fence or other
structure.
      10.   Odors; Attracting Insects Or Rodents: Solid waste, automobiles not
in operating condition, and wastewater, or any conglomeration of residue
thereof which emits odors or serves as a feeding or breeding place for flies,
insects or rodents and which, in the opinion of the code compliance officer, is
unsightly or dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-
20-2005)
      11.   Unsafe Buildings: Unsafe buildings, foundations, or other
structures which are partially destroyed or collapsed, left in a state of
partial construction, or open or abandoned. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-15-2008)
      12.   Water Runoff:
         a.   Any water runoff, beyond the historical flows discharged from any
private property onto adjacent public or private property.
         b.   All water runoff discharged from private property onto a public
right of way that results in a mud bog, mudflow, washout, erosion or similar
scouring of any part of the right of way, including improved roadways and
drainage facilities due to the increase of volume and/or velocity. (Ord. 2012-
01, 1-10-2012)
      13.   Septic Tanks Or Similar Fixtures: Liquid waste, wastewater, solids,
or seepage leaking from septic tanks, holding tanks, leach lines or similar
fixtures. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
      14.   Excavations: Excavations that are open, abandoned, or unfinished.
(Ord. 2008-05, 7-15-2008)
   B.   Declaration Of Nuisance; Abatement Generally: Any property found to be
maintained in violation of subsection A of this section is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided under subsections C and D
of this section. The procedures for abatement set forth in this section shall
not be exclusive and shall not in any manner limit or restrict the village from
enforcing other village ordinances or abating public nuisances in any other
manner provided by law.
   C.   Order To Remove Or Remedy Nuisance: Whenever any nuisance prohibited in
this section shall be found to exist upon private property within the village,
the code compliance officer shall order, in writing, the owner, lessee,
occupant or person who permits such nuisance to exist to remove or remedy the
nuisance within ten (10) days after service of such notice upon them, unless
other provisions of this code or other village ordinances provide a longer
remedy period.
   D.   Filing Of Complaint; Abatement By Village: If any such property owner
or the person who permits such nuisance to exist shall fail to comply with such
order, any person interested may file a complaint for violation of this section
against such person, or the village may elect to cause the nuisance to be
abated by removal of the nuisance and shall have a lien against the property
for the cost of such removal.
   E.   Penalty: Failure to comply with a valid order of the code compliance
officer shall constitute a petty misdemeanor within the meaning of New Mexico
Statutes Annotated, 1978, section 30-8-1, and, upon a finding of a violation of
this section, the person committing the violation may be punished in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that any fine shall be not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00). Each day that the prohibited condition is not corrected or
remedied shall constitute a separate offense, and the court shall impose a fine
on a per day basis for each day that the violation is maintained. Application
of the penalty set out in this subsection shall not be held to preclude the
forced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
9-6-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; ORDER TO REMOVE; REMOVAL BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Authority Of Council: Whenever any building or structure is ruined,
damaged or dilapidated, or any premises is covered with ruins, rubbish,
wreckage or debris, the village council may by resolution find that the ruined,
damaged and dilapidated building, structure or premises is a menace to the
public comfort, health, peace or safety and require the removal from the
village of the building, structure, ruins, rubbish, wreckage or debris.
   B.   Service Of Notice: A copy of the resolution shall be served on the
owner, occupant or agent in charge of the building, structure or premises. If
the owner (as shown by the real estate records of the county clerk), occupant
or agent in charge of the building, structure or premises cannot be personally
served within the village, service shall be by posting a copy of the resolution
on the building, structure or premises and publishing a copy of the resolution
one time.
   C.   Compliance With Order; Filing Of Objection: Within ten (10) days of the
service as provided in subsection B of this section, the owner, occupant or
agent in charge of the building, structure or premises shall commence removing
the building, structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or debris, or file a written
objection with the village clerk asking for a hearing before the village
council.
   D.   Hearing On Objection: If a timely written objection is filed as
provided in subsection C of this section, the village council shall:
      1.   Fix a date for a hearing on the resolution and the objection;
      2.   Consider all evidence for and against the resolution at the hearing;
and
      3.   Determine if the resolution should be enforced or rescinded.
   E.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by the determination of the village
council may appeal to the district court as provided by law.
   F.   Removal By Village: If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the
building, structure or premises fails to commence removing the building,
structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or debris:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after service of the resolution as provided in
subsection B of this section;
      2.   Within five (5) days of the determination that the resolution shall
be enforced; or
      3.   After the district court enters judgment sustaining the
determination of the village council; the village may remove or contract for
the removal of the building, structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or debris at
the cost and expense of the owner. The reasonable cost of the removal shall
constitute a lien against the building, structure, ruin, rubbish, wreckage or
debris and against the lot or parcel of land from which it was removed. The
lien shall be foreclosed in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-
2005)
9-6-3: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO REMOVE:
   A.   If the owner, occupant or agent in charge of the building, structure or
premises fails to commence removing the building, structure, ruin, rubbish,
wreckage, debris or fire hazard vegetation within the time specified in
subsection
9-6-2F of this chapter, each owner, occupant or agent in charge who has actual
notice of the resolution as provided in section
9-6-2 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day for which this
removal has not been commenced shall be a separate violation punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2010-05, 4-20-2010)
   B.   The fact that assessments have been made against property as provided
for in this chapter shall not prevent the owner, agent or lessee from being
punished by fine or jailed under the general provisions of this code. Such fine
or penalty may be imposed upon those found guilty of violating the provisions
of this chapter in all cases, whether an assessment has or has not been made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
CHAPTER 7
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Application Of Provisions
9-7-2: Compliance With State And Federal Regulations
9-7-3: Tree Removal
9-7-4: Off Street Parking Lots
9-7-5: Landscaping
9-7-6: Home Occupations
9-7-7: Propane Tanks
9-7-8: Exterior Lighting
9-7-9: Vehicle Storage
9-7-10: Fences And Walls
9-7-11: Architectural Appropriateness
9-7-12: Private Drives
9-7-13: Fuel Modification
9-7-14: Water Rights Requirements
9-7-15: Development Requirements For Commercial And Residential Construction
9-7-16: Implementation Of The New Mexico Cannabis Regulation Act
9-7-17: Temporary Cellular Unit
9-7-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The requirements and regulations of this chapter shall apply in all zoning
districts except as otherwise indicated. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-7-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
Compliance with New Mexico liquid waste disposal regulations and other
applicable State and Federal regulations, as well as section
8-1-3 of this Code, is required. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-7-3: TREE REMOVAL:
Trees may be removed for a building site, solar gain or to maintain a healthy
forest without a permit. Clear cutting a lot is not allowed. If the lot and
general area are forested, then the lot should maintain that general
appearance. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-7-4: OFF STREET PARKING LOTS:
The following provisions apply to all required off street parking lots of three
(3) or more parking spaces within multi-dwelling unit projects and all
commercial projects:
   A.   Commercial Parking Lot Standards:
      1.   Specifications:
         a.   Each off street parking space shall consist of a minimum area
measuring nine feet (9') wide by eighteen feet (18') long and seven feet (7')
high and have a legal, unobstructed area for access to a street.
         b.   Areas within the street right-of-way shall not be used for
required parking.
         c.   Driving aisles are required to access all parking spaces.
         d.   Driving aisles utilized with ninety degree (90°) angled parking
shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in width. Two-way driving aisles
utilized with angled parking shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in
width.
         e.   One-way driving aisles utilizing angled parking shall use the
following table:
 
Stall Angle Stall Dimensions Aisle Width
30 degrees  9x19 feet        13 feet
45 degrees  9x19 feet        15 feet
60 degrees  9x19 feet        20 feet
 
      2.   Spaces For Persons With Disabilities:
         a.   Two percent (2%) of the spaces required, but not less than one
space shall be set aside for the physically disabled;
         b.   Parking spaces for the physically disabled shall consist of an
area of not less than thirteen feet (13') in width by eighteen feet (18') in
length. Two (2) adjacent spaces must share a five foot (5') aisle;
         c.   Parking spaces for the physically disabled shall be prominently
marked and shall be located as close to an accessible entrance as possible.
      3.   Grading: Parking lots shall be graded for proper drainage away from
the street. All parking lots located on private property for public use shall
be free of potholes, uneven surfaces and other obstructions, excluding wheel
stops and exterior light fixtures.
      4.   Surface Materials: All commercial off street parking and vehicular
use areas shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, or similar materials.
      5.   Circulation Patterns And Spaces To Be Marked: All parking lots shall
be striped according to the site plan approved by the village identifying
circulation patterns and parking spaces.
      6.   Wheel Stops: Wheel stops are required on those parking spaces which
face a building or a walkway and that are at the same grade as the parking
space.
      7.   Ingress And Egress: Point of ingress/egress to parking lots from a
village right of way shall be established by encroachment permits issued by the
public works department.
      8.   Lighting: Lighting facilities, if provided, shall be arranged so
that lights neither unreasonably disturb nearby properties nor interfere with
driver vision and shall comply with the New Mexico night sky protection act 1.
Refer to section
9-7-8 of this chapter for additional lighting requirements.
      9.   Snow Storage: All commercial parking lots shall provide an area for
snow storage that is not part of the required parking lot area.
      10.   Signage: Directional signage for parking lots and areas shall not
exceed one square foot and shall not exceed two feet (2') in height.
   B.   Multi-Dwelling Parking Lot Standards:
      1.   Specifications:
         a.   Each off street parking stall shall consist of a minimum area
measuring ten feet (10') wide by twenty feet (20') long and seven feet (7')
high and have a legal, unobstructed area for access to a street.
         b.   Areas within the street right of way shall not be used for
required parking.
         c.   Private drives shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in
width, no vehicular parking is permitted on a private drive. Parallel parking
is permitted outside of the private drive. Minimum parallel parking stall shall
be ten feet (10') wide by twenty five feet (25') long.
         d.   If a garage(s) is to be used to meet the minimum number of
parking spaces required, then the garage(s) shall be set back twenty feet (20')
from the edge of the private drive. Garages located less than twenty feet (20')
from the edge of the private drive must utilize an automatic door opener. This
setback area is not eligible to be included in meeting the minimum parking
requirements.
         e.   For garage credit of one parking space, an interior garage stall
for a single vehicle garage shall have a minimum dimension of thirteen feet
(13') wide by twenty four feet (24') long.
         f.   For garage credit of two (2) parking spaces, interior garage
stalls for a two (2) vehicle garage shall have a minimum dimension of twenty
four feet (24') wide by twenty four feet (24') long.
         g.   Guest parking stalls must be clustered throughout the project and
spread evenly throughout the project for the convenience of the guests.
         h.   Setback areas in front of garages cannot be counted as required
guest parking.
      2.   Parking For Persons With Disabilities:
         a.   Two percent (2%) of the parking stalls required, but not less
than one stall shall be set aside for the physically disabled;
         b.   Parking stalls for the physically disabled shall consist of an
area of not less than thirteen feet (13') in width by eighteen feet (18') in
length. Two (2) adjacent stalls must share a five foot (5') aisle;
         c.   Parking stalls for the physically disabled shall be prominently
marked and shall be located as close to an accessible entrance as possible.
      3.   Grading: Parking lots and private drives shall be graded for proper
drainage away from public rights of way. All parking lots located on private
property for public use shall be free of potholes and other obstructions,
excluding wheel stops and exterior light fixtures.
      4.   Surface Materials: All multi-dwelling off street parking and
vehicular use areas shall be surfaced with a minimum of six inches (6") of base
course.
      5.   Circulation Patterns And Spaces To Be Marked: All parking lots shall
be striped according to the site plan approved by the village identifying
circulation patterns and parking stalls.
      6.   Wheel Stops: Wheel stops are required on those parking stalls which
face a building or a walkway and that are at the same grade as the parking
stall.
      7.   Ingress And Egress: Points of ingress/egress to parking lots from a
village right of way shall be established by encroachment permits issued by the
streets and drainage department.
      8.   Lighting: Light standards and fixtures, if provided, shall be
arranged so that lights neither unreasonably disturb nearby properties nor
interfere with driver vision and shall comply with the New Mexico night sky
protection act. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this chapter for additional lighting requirements.
      9.   Snow Storage: All multi-dwelling parking lots/areas shall provide an
area for snow storage that is not part of the required parking lot area.
      10.   Signage: Directional signage for parking lots and areas shall not
exceed one square foot and shall not exceed two feet (2') in height.
   C.   Location Of Parking:
      1.   All off street parking shall be located on the same property for
which the parking is required.
      2.   Off site or shared parking is permitted as a conditional use using a
cross parking easement, provided the off site parking area contiguous to the
subject property and the two (2) land uses have different peak traffic times.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2006-09, 8-17-
2006; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-7-5: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: Landscaping is required to enhance the attractiveness of the
village and improve the quality of life for its citizens and visitors. This
section seeks to protect residential developments from surrounding uses, soften
harsh expanses of pavement, and screen undesirable views.
   B.   Scope: No landscaping requirements will be regulated by this zoning
code for single-family homes built in an R-1 district. However, the exterior
property areas in all zones shall be maintained as covered in the property
maintenance code of the village 1
   C.   Landscaping Prior To Certificate Of Occupancy Issuance: Required
landscaping shall appear on the site plan and be installed before a certificate
of occupancy (CO) is issued, and thereafter maintained properly. (A temporary
CO may be requested if weather prevents planting and all other inspections have
been passed.)
   D.   Amount Of Landscaped Area: Businesses shall landscape at least six (6)
square feet for each linear foot of road frontage up to the minimum square
footage of open space required in that district.
   E.   Types Of Vegetation:
      1.   The use of drought tolerant plants is required.
      2.   Landscaping materials shall be of trees (1 inch caliper minimum) and
shrubs (5 gallon minimum). The use of noxious weeds as landscaping material is
prohibited.
   F.   Maintenance Requirements: All landscaping must be maintained. Property
owners are responsible for the maintenance of the right of way contiguous to
their property including the driveway culvert. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-4-2 of this title.1.
9-7-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to allow businesses, which do
not change the residential character of the premises or neighborhood, are
compatible with other homes on adjacent properties, do not draw customers to
the home, and do not adversely affect the interests, quality of life, or equity
of other property owners in the neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
   B.   Definitions:
    DWELLING: Includes an enclosed garage that is an accessory building to a
dwelling unit.
   ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE: Equipment or processes which create visible or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or
cause fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial activity of the occupant of a dwelling clearly
incidental, subordinate, and secondary to the use of the structure as a
dwelling in a residential area, and that does not change the residential
character of the site or buildings on the site.
   C.   Performance Standards: A business conducted within a dwelling shall
qualify as a home occupation if it meets the following standards:
      1.   Compliance With Laws: Complies with all federal, state and local
codes.
      2.   Residential Character Maintained: The residential character of the
lot and the dwelling unit shall be maintained. No change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises, or any construction feature or
alteration not of a residential character, shall be allowed as a result of the
home occupation, except as necessary to comply with an accessibility law.
      3.   Home Occupation Within Dwelling: All activity of the home occupation
shall be carried on entirely within the dwelling and shall occupy a maximum of
six hundred (600) square feet or twenty five percent (25%) of dwelling's heated
area, whichever is less.
      4.   Exterior Displays; Outside Storage: The goods, stock in trade, or
other commodities associated with the home occupation shall neither be
displayed nor visible from a location off the site on which the business is
being conducted. There shall be no warehousing of materials/supplies outside
the dwelling hosting the home occupation.
      5.   Advertising: There shall be no show windows, window displays or
advertising signs or structures on or near the site designed to attract
customers, clients or the general public to the premises. The only sign
permitted on a residence hosting a home occupation shall have a maximum of two
(2) square feet and state only the resident's name and the street and number.
      6.   Traffic Restricted: The home occupation may not generate any
additional amount of vehicular or pedestrian traffic. Business related vehicles
may only park in the existing garage or an existing driveway. Parking of
vehicles is not permitted on any public roadway.
      7.   Noise, Erosion, Vibration, Etc.: No equipment or process shall be
used which has objectionable operational characteristics or effects, or which
would identify the premises as serving a nonresidential character. These can
include, but are not limited to, noise, erosion, vibration, fumes, odors, dust,
smoke, lighting, effluent or electrical interference detectable to normal
senses off the site of the dwelling hosting the home occupation.
      8.   Hazardous Activity Prohibited: No hazardous activity shall be
permitted as part of a home occupation. This includes processes associated with
the product of the home activity or storage of materials capable of generating
fire, toxicity, or explosion. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-7-7: PROPANE TANKS:
   A.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
   B.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Buried Tanks: All propane tanks that are buried shall require
aboveground valve protection. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-7-8: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Exterior lighting shall be low lumens and pointing downward so as to
minimize night sky illumination and avoid disturbance of adjacent property
owners. All on site wiring shall be underground.
         a.   Temporary power poles may be utilized for a period of twelve
months with approval from the Village Manager or Director of Planning and
Zoning. This temporary allowance may be extended one time for an additional
twelve months. Consideration for this request shall be contingent upon the
utility service provider's ability to install underground wiring in a timely
manner.
   2.   Freestanding lighting in all Residential Zones shall have a maximum
height of eight feet (8') and, in all Commercial Zones, a maximum height of
twenty feet (20').
      3.   No sodium yard lights and no mercury vapor outdoor lighting fixtures
are permitted.
      4.   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be shielded, top and sides, to
sixty degrees (60°) below the light source.
      5.   Outdoor lighting fixtures not meeting these provisions shall be
allowed if the fixture is extinguished by an automatic shutoff device between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and sunrise. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
      6.   Lighting systems used for lighting Federal and State flags within
the C-1, C-2, O-1 or O-2 Zones are exempt from general provisions of
subsections A1 through A5 of this section. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
   B.   Plan Required: Exterior lighting plans shall be included in plans
required to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Office in a site plan or a
zoning certificate application.
   C.   Recreational Facilities: No outdoor recreational facility, whether
public or private, shall be illuminated after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
except to conclude any recreational or sporting event or other activity in
progress prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   D.   Parking And Street Areas: Lighting required in parking and street areas
shall be in accordance with this title.
   E.   Existing Lighting: Lighting in existence and operable on the effective
date of this title is permitted unless and until replaced or modified. Replaced
or modified lighting shall conform to the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2002-
02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2023-03, 3-14-2023)
9-7-9: VEHICLE STORAGE:
   A.   Prohibited Vehicles:
      1.   Wrecked, Inoperable Vehicles: No owner of a lot nor any other person
shall be permitted to store wrecked or inoperable vehicles on any lot or on any
street.
      2.   Oversized Vehicles: No oversized vehicle is to be left unattended on
any street. An oversized vehicle is any vehicle ninety inches (90") in width.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   B.   Screening Requirements: RVs, motorized construction equipment, travel
trailers, watercrafts, horse trailers, or utility trailers that measure more
than four feet (4') high as measured from the ground or more than twenty feet
(20') in length and any other vehicle parked on any residential lot, unless
garaged must be operable and registered. They must be parked on the side or
behind the residence and screened from view from any adjacent street or
residence.
      1.   Screening by wooden fences or non-deciduous trees or combination of
both of sufficient height to screen objects located inside from normal public
view and must meet all setback requirements of this title.
      2.   Walls or fences that are in harmony with the house style and must
meet setback requirements of this title.
      3.   A zoning permit is required prior to any placement of screening.
(Ord. 2019-03, 4-16-2019)
9-7-10: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Permit Required: Fences and walls require a permit and/or must be
included on a site plan.
   B.   Height Restrictions:
      1.   Fences and walls shall have a maximum height in Residential Zones of
six feet (6') and shall have a maximum height in Commercial Zones of eight feet
(8').
      2.   Wall and fence height will be measured from ground level; if there
is a difference in grade due to a step or retaining wall, then the height shall
be measured for the height from the high side.
   C.   Materials Restricted:
      1.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by solid fencing.
      2.   The use of barbed wire, concertina wire, razor ribbon, or other
barbed type obstacles is prohibited. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
      3.   Intermediate wood horizontal guards in railings shall not be
permitted on elevated platforms over thirty inches (30") high on balconies,
decks, elevated catwalks and walkways. (Ord. 2008-05, 7-15-2008)
   D.   Gates: Entry gates shall be located behind the front yard setback line
and shall not exceed fourteen feet (14') in height and twenty feet (20') in
width. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   E.   Retaining Walls Over Four Feet: (Rep. by Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
   F.   Swimming Pools And Hot Tubs: All outdoor swimming pools, jacuzzis, and
hot tubs shall be completely enclosed by a wall or fence at least six feet (6')
in height with self-closing devices on all access gates. Jacuzzis and hot tubs
may use locking covers.
   G.   Tennis Courts: Tennis courts may have chainlink fences a maximum height
of twelve feet (12'), provided they shall be located to the side or to the rear
of the principal building.
   H.   Opaque Fences And Walls Required: Screening by an opaque fence or wall
of sufficient height to screen objects located inside from normal public view
shall be required for:
      1.   Service yards (not over 6 feet high).
      2.   Fuel tanks.
      3.   Trash containers.
      4.   Utility substations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-7-11: ARCHITECTURAL APPROPRIATENESS:
The following provisions shall apply to all Village zoning districts, except
where specifically referenced, to only Residential or only Commercial Zoning
Districts:
   A.   Colors, Styles And Materials: Colors, styles and materials of all
structures and buildings shall be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky
Mountain environment of the Village. Exterior details should be used to enhance
the facade of all new commercial structures. Features such as prominent
entryways featuring stone, large timbers and glass, awnings, and moldings are
all encouraged.
   B.   Building Scale: New commercial buildings should be in proportion to
adjacent structures. For proposed structures that are significantly larger than
adjacent structures, design elements should be incorporated to make the
building compatible with the smaller buildings.
   C.   Multiple Building Projects: For commercial projects with multiple
buildings, the structures should be designed with a common architectural theme
using common design elements and same materials.
   D.   Building Materials: For new commercial construction, the following
materials are required for exterior finishes: natural or cultured stone,
stucco, wood, brick and textured concrete masonry. These materials may be used
in architecturally compatible combinations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   E.   Building Roofs: A minimum twelve inch (12") overhang is required unless
inappropriate to the house style. Parapet walls shall not require an overhang.
Roofs shall have muted colors and be made from or of nonreflective and
nonglossy material that has a low sun reflective value (SRV) of less than forty
percent (40%), as shown by manufacturer's test data. When such data is
unavailable, compliance will be determined by a comparison of samples where
data is available. Reflective roofing materials are not permitted on any
permanent structure. Reflective materials include not only roof coverings but
also include protuberances such as vent pipes and air management equipment from
the roof structure. Such protuberances must be painted to match or complement
the color of the roof covering material. Paint must be nonreflective/nonglossy
and have an SRV of forty percent (40%) or less. Regardless of SRV rating, all
roofs that are white, gray, silver, aluminum or similar in color and
reflectance are prohibited. All wooden shake shingle roof material or similar
are prohibited. Test method standards: ASTM E903, C1549 total solar reflectance
(%) percentage value SRV or ASTM E1980 for solar reflectance index SRI. (Ord.
2008-05, 7-15-2008; amd. Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   F.   Mechanical Design: All heating and other mechanical equipment mounted
on the building must be screened from view by an architectural element of the
building or painted to match the building.
   G.   Building Service Areas: Areas for loading and unloading, trash
collection and disposal, and utility services must be located away from or
screened from view from all public rights-of-way. All automobile service bays
must be located to the rear of the building. All screening treatment should be
made of and colored the same as the predominant materials and color of the
building. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   H.   Intermediate Wood Horizontal Guards: Intermediate wood horizontal
guards in railings shall not be permitted on elevated platforms over thirty
inches (30") high on balconies, decks, elevated catwalks and walkways. (Ord.
2008-05, 7-15-2008)
9-7-12: PRIVATE DRIVES:
   A.   Private roadways and driveways shall not be constructed so as to drain
onto the street. Driveways shall not have a slope that exceeds twelve percent
(12%), unless the lot configuration requires a driveway slope exceeding twelve
percent (12%), in which event, parking space shall be provided for a minimum of
two (2) vehicles out of the street right-of-way unless an encroachment permit
is requested and granted. See subsection
9-7-4A1a of this chapter for parking space dimensions. Said parking spaces
shall be constructed to provide a minimum of six feet (6') from the edge of the
roadway to the parked vehicle to allow for snow removal. (Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-
2005)
   B.   Commercial uses may be located along private roadways within Commercial
Districts. If said private roadway or driveway is a cul-de-sac, no commercial
lot or use shall be more than five hundred feet (500') from a dedicated right-
of-way. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   C.   Any commercial property owner requiring a utility connection that
requires the cutting into pavement, concrete or compacted material for the
purpose of acquiring service, shall be responsible for the replacement of
material and compaction of same. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-19-2006)
9-7-13: FUEL MODIFICATION:
   A.   Purpose: This section is intended to provide property owners with fuel
modification measures to be used to create an area around structures, property,
and the community known as defensible space. Defensible space provides
firefighters a working environment that allows them to protect privately held
land within the community from encroaching wildfires as well as minimizing the
chance that a structure fire will escape to the surrounding wildland. This
section applies to any person or entity who owns, leases, controls, operates,
or maintains any structure in, upon, or adjoining any mountainous area, forest-
covered lands, brush-covered lands, grass covered lands, or any land that is
covered with flammable material, and located within the Village of Angel Fire.
In addition, this section is not to exclude fuel modification of vacant lots
where no structure is present for the reasons of not negatively impacting a
neighboring property's defensible space and to reduce the overall fire hazard
in that area.
   B.   Definitions:
    dbh: Diameter at breast height.
   DEAD/DOWN: Any vegetation to include trees, shrubs, limbs that is either
standing or on the ground and is no longer living. Standing dead is often
referred to as "snags".
   DEFENSIBLE SPACE: 1. A natural and/or landscaped area around privately held
land to include structures, vacant lots, and common areas within the community
that has been maintained and designed to reduce fire danger. Defensible space
reduces the risk that fire will spread from one area to another, including to a
structure.
2. The area within the perimeter of a parcel where basic wildfire protection
practices are implemented, providing the key point of defense from an
approaching wildfire or escaping structure fire.
   FUEL: Vegetation and combustible man-made objects are fuel for fires. Even
the structure itself is considered fuel. Research and experience have shown
that fuel reduction decreases fire danger and increases the survivability of
structures, surrounding vegetation and ultimately human life. Good defensible
space allows firefighters to protect and save property safely without facing
unacceptable risk to their lives. Fuel reduction through vegetation management
is the key to creating good defensible space.
   FUEL MODIFICATION: Creating defensible space through vegetation management
means reducing the amount of fuel, providing separation between fuels, and/or
reshaping retained fuels by trimming. Defensible space can be created by
removing dead vegetation, separating fuels, and pruning lower limbs. By
arranging trees, shrubs, and other fuels in a way that makes it difficult for
fire to transfer from one fuel source to another does not mean cutting down all
trees and shrubs, or creating a bare ring of earth across the property.
   GROUND FUELS: Loose surface litter on the soil surface, normally consisting
of fallen leaves or needles, twigs, bark, cones, and small branches that have
not yet decayed enough to lose their identity; also grasses, forbs, low and
medium shrubs, tree seedlings, heavier branches and downed logs.
   INTERMIX: Where structures and vegetation intermingle.
   LADDER FUELS: Flammable materials between the ground and the tree canopy (a
single tree or stand of trees) that can carry a fire vertically between or
within a fuel type. Ladder fuels are typically composed of immature trees,
shrubs, or branches.
   STRUCTURE: Any structure used for support or shelter of any use or
occupancy.
   WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE (WUI): The zone of transition between unoccupied
land and human development.
   C.   General: The wildland fire risk in the Village of Angel Fire requires
and recommends various degrees of fuel modification which have been established
into four (4) separate zones and pertain specifically to properties with
structures. Together these zones range from zero feet (0') to one hundred plus
feet (100'+) and have mandatory requirements and recommendations listed in
subsection I of this section. Vacant lot requirements and recommendations are
in subsection H of this section.
   D.   Treatment: Fuels are all combustible materials within the wildland
urban interface or intermix including, but not limited to, vegetation and
structures. Treatment includes limbing, lopping, pruning or cutting. Specific
treatments will be determined by the Angel Fire Chief of Fire/EMS, or his/her
designee on a case by case basis and upon request.
      1.   Ground and ladder fuels within specific fuel modification zones
shall be treated or removed.
      2.   Dead material within sixty feet (60') of the structure shall be
removed and live vegetation shall be thinned and pruned.
      3.   Dead and/or downed fuels within the first two (2) fuel modification
zones shall be removed in order to maintain the fuel modification area. More
detailed information regarding standing dead specifications are outlined in
subsection I of this section.
      4.   Vegetation and/or shrubs under trees within fuel modification Zones
1 and 2 shall be maintained at a height not to exceed three feet (3').
   E.   Combustible Materials: Other combustible material shall be removed from
Zone 1 or stored in a suitable area as approved by the Angel Fire Chief of
Fire/EMS, or his/her designee. Examples of combustible materials are:
woodpiles, brush piles, grass mulching, and tree debris.
   F.   Existing Structure(s): All existing structures may be subject to an
inspection based on the community assessments of the community wildfire
protection plan.
   G.   New Structures: All new structures shall comply with this section.
   H.   Vacant Lot; Requirements: Vacant lots, a lot without any structure,
shall be maintained free of dead vegetation; shrubs beneath trees shall be no
greater than three feet (3') in height; ladder fuels shall be removed (up to 6
feet from ground); and all dead/down trees shall be removed, except lots
greater than or equal to one acre are granted an allowance up to three (3)
snags (greater than 12 inches dbh and 30 feet in height per acre) for wildlife
habitat, if such snags or any one of them are more than one hundred feet (100')
from any neighboring structures. (It is recommended to remove trees from vacant
lots that are less than 12 inches dbh in order to maintain a healthy 15 foot
spacing between tree stems that are greater than 12 inches dbh. Additional fuel
reduction recommendation: Ponderosa pine should have 14 feet - 16 feet tree
spacing and mixed conifer should have 16 feet - 18 feet tree spacing.)
   I.   Fuel Modification Requirements And Recommendations:
Fuel Modification Requirements Recommendations Comments
Fuel Modification  Requirements       Recommendations       Comments
Zone 1: Immediate:                                          
                   Remove all pine
                   needles and
                   flammable ground
                   materials within
                   2' of the base of
                   the structure
                   during times of
                   high fire danger
                    
                   Minimum of 10 -
                   12' between stems  Removal of trees <12"
                   of trees <12" dbh  dbh in order to
                                     maintain 15' spacing
                   Firewood: Up to 1  between tree stems
                   cord may be        that are >12" dbh
                   stacked on your     
                   deck for immediate Maintain
                   use during the     noncombustible ground
                   cold weather       material 10' around   Zone 1 will
                   months; storage of structure (planting   constitute the
                   firewood less than beds, rock gardens,   minimum
                   2 cords shall be   gravel or bare soil)  requirements in the
 0 - 10'          no closer than 10'                      immediate area
                   from any structure Bedding plants (<18"  around a structure
                                     high)                 regardless of lot
                   Remove all ladder                       size
                   fuels up to 6'     Prune native tree
                                     limbs overhanging
                   Prune trees        roof
                   extending over      
                   eave of roof or    Consider nonflammable
                   25%, whichever is  landscape material
                   less               (example: do not use
                                     railroad ties, wood
                   Remove branches    fencing, etc.)
                   within 10' of
                   chimney
                    
                   Remove all dead/
                   down
                    
                   Keep roofs and
                   gutters free of
                   dead leaves and
                   pine needles
Zone 2:                                                     
Intermediate:
                                      Removal of trees <12"
                                      dbh in order to
                                      maintain 15' spacing
                                      between tree stems
                                      that are >12" dbh
                                       
                                      Minimum 10' between
                                      stems of trees in
                                      "clumps" (maximum 5
                   Minimum of 10 -    trees/clump)
                   12' between stems   
                   of trees <12" dbh  Crowns of trees
                                     should not touch
                   Remove all ladder   
                   fuels up to 6'     Maintain low          Zones 1 and 2 have
                                     combustible ground    much to do with the
                   Remove all dead/   covers                ignitability of a
 10 - 60'         down                                    structure and
                                     Keep lawns watered    individual
                   Firewood: Storage  and mowed (as         protection
                   of firewood        conditions allow)
                   greater than 2      
                   cords shall be no  Consider planting
                   closer than 30' to beds, rock gardens
                   a structure        and fire resistant
                                      plants. 10 - 15'
                                      between planting
                                      islands and groups of
                                      shrubs
                                       
                                      Bedding plants (<18"
                                      high)
                                       
                                      Consider nonflammable
                                      landscape material
Zone 3: Extended:                                           
                                      Removal of trees <12"
                                      dbh in order to
                                      maintain 15' spacing
                                      between tree stems
                                      that are >12" dbh
                                      Additional fuel
                                      reduction:
                                        Ponderosa pine: 14
                                        - 16' tree spacing
                                         
                                        Mixed conifer: 16 -
                                        18' tree spacing
                                         
                   Remove all           10 - 15' between
  60 - 100'        standing dead        stems of trees in
                                        "clumps" (maximum 5
                                        trees/clump)
                                        
                                        10 - 15' between
                                        planting islands
                                         
                                        Remove all dead/
                                        down
                                         
                                        Prune tree limbs
                                        minimum of 6' from
                                        ground or 25% of
                                        tree height,
                                        whichever is less
Zone 4: Extended/
property perimeter                                          
buffer:
                                      Removal of trees <12"
                                      dbh in order to
                                      maintain 15' spacing
                                      between tree stems
                                      that are >12" dbh
                                      Additional fuels
                                      reduction:            Treatment in this
                                        Ponderosa pine -    zone addresses
                                        14' plus tree       wildfire rate of
                   No more than 3       spacing             spread and
                   snags (greater                          intensity.
                   than 12" dbh and     Mixed conifer - 16' Consistent
                   30' in height per    plus tree spacing   application of
                   acre beyond the                         these recommended
  100'+            initial 100') for    Prune tree limbs    treatments will
                   wildlife habitat,    minimum of 6' from  create conditions
                   and are no closer    ground or 25% of    where a fire's rate
                   than 100' to any    tree height,        of spread could
                   neighboring          whichever is less   slow down and
                   structures                              create opportunity
                                        Consider            for fire resources
                                        coordination with   to safely respond
                                        neighboring
                                        properties
                                         
                                        Recommend treatment
                                        of entire property
                                         
                                        Remove dead/down
 
   J.   Implementation And Exclusions:
      1.   Compliance: Effective June 1, 2019 any person or entity who owns,
leases, controls, operates, or maintains any structure in, upon, or adjoining
any mountainous area, forest-covered lands, brush-covered lands, grass covered
lands, or any land that is covered with flammable material, and located within
the Village of Angel Fire shall fully comply with this section within the
designated timeframe based upon the amount of property the person or entity
owns, leases, controls, operates, or maintains as described in table A of this
subsection. Compliance with this section shall be accomplished in the
percentage stages set forth below.
      TABLE A
0.25 - 1 acre    1 year   100% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
                          section by the end of the 1st year
                          30% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
1.1 - 5 acres    3 years  section by the end of the 1st year; 60% by the end of
                          the 2nd year; and 100% by the end of the 3rd year
                          30% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
5.1 - 10 acres   5 years  section by the end of the 2nd year; 60% by the end of
                          the 4th year; and 100% by the end of the 5th year
                          30% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
10.1 - 15 acres  7 years  section by the end of the 3rd year; 60% by the end of
                          the 5th year; and 100% by the end of the 7th year
                          30% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
15.1 - 20 acres  9 years  section by the end of the 3rd year; 60% by the end of
                          the 6th year; and 100% by the end of the 9th year
                          35% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
20.1 - 50 acres  10 years section by the end of the 3rd year; 70% by the end of
                          the 6th year; and 100% by the end of the 10th year
                          35% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
50.1 - 100 acres 15 years section by the end of the 5th year; 70% by the end of
                          the 10th year; and 100% by the end of the 15th year
                          20% of the acreage shall be in compliance with this
                          section by the end of the 5th year; 40% by the end of
>100 acres       25 years the 10th year; 60% by the end of the 15th year; 80%
                          by the end of the 20th year; and 100% by the end of
                          the 25th year
 
      2.   Exclusions: Any vacant land that is not readily accessible by a
Village of Angel Fire maintained roadway is excluded from this section. This
includes areas known and designated as Chalets 3, 3A, 3B, 5, and 6 of the
Village of Angel Fire Subdivision Map, October 1989.
   K.   Penalties: The penalty for non-compliance with a violation of this
section shall be in accordance with subsection
9-6-1E of this title. (Ord. 2019-07, 5-14-2019)
9-7-14: WATER RIGHTS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Transfer To The Village; Prerequisites For Increased Water Use:
      1.   Any person who applies for new municipal water services or who
increases the number of bedrooms to an existing dwelling or who changes the use
of an existing business that requires an increase in water consumption shall be
required to transfer consumptive water rights to the village of Angel Fire in
quantities sufficient to meet the water demand of the project, including any
line loss. The applicant may meet the water rights transfer requirements of
this section by paying a fee in lieu of the transfer in a fee amount sufficient
for the village to purchase additional water rights to meet the water demand of
the new commercial business or the newly created residential lot.
      2.   No new municipal water service connection or increase in water use
shall be approved or made by the village until an application for service has
been signed and completed by the property owner and there has been a completed
transfer to the village of water rights or the water rights transfer
requirements of this section have been met.
         a.   A complete transfer includes conveyance of the water right to the
village, a deed showing ownership of the water right(s), an approved
application of the office of the state engineer (OSE) for transfer of
ownership, and a full or partial change in the place of use and purpose of use
and point of diversion that is approved by the OSE.
         b.   The applicant shall bear the costs associated with the transfer
of ownership.
         c.   The applicant shall pay a one time five hundred dollar ($500.00)
fee for the village to perform its due diligence in determining the validity of
the water right(s) that the applicant proposed to transfer. This fee shall be
waived if the applicant pays a fee in lieu of transferring water rights.
         d.   The village has the exclusive discretion to approve or disapprove
any proposed water rights transfer to the village.
         e.   By resolution, the village council shall set the fee in lieu of
charge per acre-foot of consumptive water right acquisition fee.
      3.   The requirements of this section for transfers of water rights shall
be restricted to new commercial water service connections and to water service,
which has been terminated for more than two (2) years. Such requirements do not
apply to reconnection or renewal of service which has been terminated for less
than two (2) years, or to water rights which have been previously purchased by
or transferred to the village water system and approved by the OSE. This would
include all residential subdivisions covered by the transfer agreement with the
Angel Fire Resort. If the active service increases the use of water, the
increase in water usage between the previous use and the increased use must be
transferred. Increased use is determined by first computing the average water
use of the current user for the past two (2) years based on water bills with
the village; that average is then compared to the calculated new use based on a
water budget prepared by a licensed engineer. The difference between these two
(2) values shall be the additional consumptive water right, if any, to be
transferred to the village.
      4.   The amount of water rights which shall be required to be transferred
under this section shall be calculated on an acre- foot consumptive use basis,
plus an additional ten percent (10%) of the consumptive use amount to
compensate the village for line losses associated with each connection.
Completion of such transfers shall be contingent on the approval for such
transfer to the village under the rules, regulations and procedures of, and in
compliance with, the state water laws and this code. All costs incurred in
connection with any such transfer shall be borne by the applicant.
   B.   Water Rights Disclosure Statement Required For New Subdivisions: All
new subdivisions must include a disclosure statement to prospective buyers the
amount of water rights to which each lot is limited according to amount of
water rights transferred to the village by the subdivider, a minimum transfer
of one-third (1/3) acre-foot per dwelling unit is required to be transferred.
   C.   Annexations:
      1.   In order to evaluate the impact on the village's water supply, all
property owner initiated annexations will be considered upon submittal of a
water plan submitted by the property owner(s) requesting annexation.
Annexations to the town may be approved only after the village has evaluated
the impact of the proposed annexation on the pumping and distribution system
and on the availability of water rights.
      2.   The village may determine that a property or area to be annexed will
not have an impact to the village's water supply if such property or area has
its own public or private water supply, or such property or area is beyond the
service area of the municipal water supply and can be served through the future
installation of a public or private water supply. (Ord. 2005-04, 7-18-2005)
   D.   Building Permits:
      1.   The village shall not issue a building permit to any applicant for a
building permit until all water and water rights requirements of this section
are satisfied.
      2.   This restriction shall not apply to building permits issued by the
village, which do not require an increase in water use for existing water
service (or lots not within the water service area). (Ord. 2015-01, 11-17-2015)
   E.   Transfer Of Water Rights Does Not Waive Any Other Requirement For Water
Services: The transfer of any water rights to the village, wherever applicable,
in no way abolishes any requirement of connection fees or any other
requirements of the village regarding the water system.
   F.   Application; Calculation Of Water Rights: All persons requesting a
change in use and/or increase in use shall complete an application for service
prior to receiving building permit approval and shall submit a water budget
prepared by a licensed engineer. The village administrator, or his designee
will review that water budget for concurrence. At the time a building permit is
issued, the applicant shall pay all applicable fees as required by this
section.
   G.   Regulation Of Water Consumption: It is unlawful for any person to
divert and/or consume more water than allowed by the person's water service
agreement with the village without first transferring to the village additional
water rights in an amount sufficient to the person's water demands. (Ord. 2005-
04, 7-18-2005)
9-7-15: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Any applicant applying for a building permit for new commercial
construction that is requested adjacent to a dedicated right(s) of way that has
a width less than sixty feet (60') shall be required to dedicate sufficient
land to create thirty feet (30') of right of way from the centerline of the
right(s) of way.
This additional right of way shall run the length of the subject property along
all existing right(s) of way adjacent to the subject property.
   B.   Any applicant applying for a building permit for new commercial
construction that is requested adjacent to a public access easement that has a
width less than sixty feet (60') shall be required to maintain the required
setback plus sufficient land to create thirty feet (30') of access from the
centerline of the existing public access easement.
This additional land shall run the length of the subject property along all
existing sides of the subject property adjacent to the existing easements.
   C.   No building permits will be issued for new commercial construction that
is adjacent to a private access easement except for those locations that have
secured planned unit development approval or site plan approval from the
village council as required by this zoning code.
   D.   Any applicant applying for a building permit for residential
construction that is requested adjacent to a dedicated right(s) of way that has
a width less than sixty feet (60') shall be required to dedicate sufficient
land to create thirty feet (30') of right of way from the centerline of the
right(s) of way.
   E.   Any applicant applying for a building permit for residential
construction that is requested adjacent to a public access easement that has a
width less than sixty feet (60') shall be required to maintain the required
setback plus sufficient land to create thirty feet (30') of access from the
centerline of the existing public access easement.
   F.   Any existing structure shall be eligible to receive a variance for
nonconforming use.
   G.   All wire services to a new construction site and throughout the subject
property shall be buried underground.
      a.   Temporary power poles may be utilized for a period of twelve months
with approval from the Village Manager or Director of Planning and Zoning. This
temporary allowance may be extended one time for an additional twelve months.
Consideration for this request shall be contingent upon the utility service
provider's ability to install underground wiring in a timely manner. (Ord.
2003-05, 3-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2023-03, 3-14-2023)
9-7-16: IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NEW MEXICO CANNABIS REGULATION ACT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Ordinance is to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the community. Except as allowed by law for personal,
private use, the Village of Angel Fire enacts reasonable regulations and
requires compliance with laws for the retail sale, cultivation and
manufacturing of cannabis or cannabis products in a cannabis establishment or
cannabis testing facility and the cultivation, processing and manufacturing of
cannabis in a primary residence. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to
promote or condone the sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production,
distribution, possession, or use of cannabis or cannabis products in violation
of any applicable law.
   B.   Rules OF Construction Of This Section: The section will be construed
pursuant to the definitions, authority and restrictions in Chapter 4, Laws of
New Mexico, 2021, the Cannabis Regulation Act (CRA) and the DEE Johnson Clean
Indoor Air Act § 24-16-1 et seq. NMSA 1978. (Dee Johnson Act)
   C.   Definitions:
 
CONSUME, CONSUMING, and The act of ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
CONSUMPTION:            introducing cannabis into the human body.
OPEN SPACE:             A public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or
                        public pedestrian thoroughfare.
PUBLIC PLACE:           Has the same meaning prescribed in the Dee Johnson
                        Clean Indoor Air Act, N.M.R.S. § 24-16-3.
                        To inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any
SMOKE:                  lighted cannabis or lighted cannabis products,
                        whether natural or synthetic.
 
   D.   Cannabis Prohibited On Public Property:
      1.   The use, sale, cultivation, manufacture, production, storage or
distribution of cannabis or cannabis products is prohibited on property that is
occupied, owned, controlled, or operated by the Village of Angel Fire.
      2.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke cannabis or consume
cannabis products on property that is occupied, owned, controlled, or operated
by the Village.
      3.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke cannabis or consume
cannabis products in any open space in the Village of Angel Fire.
      4.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke in a public place in the
Village of Angel Fire.
   E.   License/Certificate of Occupancy; Penalty/Continuing Violations: A
Cannabis Establishment must obtain from the Village a certificate of occupancy
and a business license before occupying any premises. Failure to do so will be
punishable, upon conviction, by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
or more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and by imprisonment for not more
than fifteen (15) days and for a second or subsequent offense shall be punished
by a fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or no more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for up to ninety (90) days, or
both. Violators may be cited for each day of violation.
   F.   Use Penalties: Any person, upon conviction of violation of division D.
of this section will be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) or more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and by imprisonment for not
more than fifteen (15) days and for a second or subsequent offense shall be
punished by a fine of no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or no more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for up to ninety (90)
days, or both. (Ord. 2021-09, 10-12-2021)
9-7-17: TEMPORARY CELLULAR UNIT:
   A.   Temporary cellular unit means any cellular communication structure,
vehicle, trailer mounted apparatus, or device that is part of a system
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission that is used to temporarily
provide service where an existing tower/antenna for cellular communication is
not operable for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The existing tower/antenna for cellular communication use is damaged
or destroyed other than by the intentional act of the owner or agent; or
      2.   A demolition or construction permit has been issued on a building
site that includes an existing mounted cellular antenna, monopole cellular
tower, or other cellular communication tower/antenna.
   B.   Temporary cellular unit is permitted by right in all districts. A
permit shall be obtained for a temporary cellular unit and it shall be valid
for thirty (30) calendar days. This permit may be extended for an additional
thirty (30) calendar days.
   C.   Temporary cellular units are permitted by right in all districts in
conjunction with a special events permit. Temporary cellular units shall be
permitted for any event with a projected attendance over one thousand (1,000)
people.
   D.   Commercial crop production uses shall not be permitted service by the
Village of Angel Fire water department. (Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024; amd. Ord.
2025-02, 4-8-2025)
CHAPTER 8
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: General Requirements
9-8-3: Permit Requirements
9-8-4: Permanent Signs
9-8-5: Off Premises Signs
9-8-6: Structural And Architectural Characteristics
9-8-7: Banner Signs
9-8-8: Prohibited Signs And Conditions
9-8-9: Vacant Building Signs
9-8-10: Nonconforming Signs
9-8-11: Removal Of Signs
9-8-12: Posting Address
9-8-13: Exceptions To Provisions
9-8-14: Remedies For Noncompliance
9-8-15:    LED Signs
9-8-16:    Signs Variances
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
Angel Fire and the Moreno Valley have view sheds of exceptional scenic value
that represent the baseline of our tourist and recreational economy. The
purpose of this chapter is to protect the scenic and intrinsic values of these
view sheds while at the same time affording general commerce the ability to
advertise and market their products and services to the public at large in a
reasonable manner.
The Village encourages existing and future business owners to contact the
Planning and Zoning Division to determine how this chapter can be utilized to
maximize signage opportunities. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: No signs of any type, including any
seasonal signs, shall be allowed, constructed, erected, or maintained, except
as specifically provided herein.
   B.   Location On Private Property Only: Signs shall be allowed on private
property only, not in rights-of-way. Signs shall not be allowed within
easements unless having received the written permission of the owner.
   C.   Illuminated, Moving Signs:
      1.   Sign illumination shall be either indirect with the source of light
concealed from direct view or shall be through translucent, light diffusing
materials utilizing low voltage lights.
      2.   Light will shine pointed down on the sign and not create night sky
light pollution.
      3.   Any exposed electrical conduit shall be of the same color as the
background.
   D.   Building Directory Signs: One building directory sign per building,
listing all businesses in a building by name only, shall not exceed five (5)
square feet and shall be placed near or at the primary entrance into the
building, and will not be included in the total attached sign face area
allowed.
   E.   Directional Or Warning Signs: Directional or warning signs on
residential lots with less than one square foot of area on one side may be
attached to trees and shall not require a permit. A maximum of three (3) such
signs shall be allowed on one property.
   F.   Maintenance And Repair: All signs shall be maintained in good repair
and not faded, unsightly, mutilated, peeling or otherwise defaced. (Ord. 2017-
03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A sign permit shall be required for any sign except
where stated otherwise, and no sign shall be erected, constructed, altered,
remodeled, or changed until the Coordinator has issued a permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: A permit will be considered by the Coordinator
only after an application has been filed with the Planning and Zoning Office
showing the plans and specifications, including dimensions, materials, and
details of construction, of the proposed sign.
   C.   Review And Approval:
      1.   After the required fee is paid, the zoning official shall consider
all complete applications for approval or denial.
      2.   The Coordinator will review all signs for conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   Signs required by Federal, State or local authorities are exempt
from this section.
      2.   Permits are not required for real estate signs, construction signs,
residential signs or security signs as identified in these regulations. (Ord.
2018-03, 9-11-2018)
9-8-4: PERMANENT SIGNS:
   A.   Freestanding Signs:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall:
         a.   Be limited to a single, two (2) sided sign per lot.
         b.   Not be higher than twelve feet (12') from the ground for single
businesses.
         c.   Not be higher than fifteen feet (15') from the ground for
multiple businesses with one front lot and no higher than twelve feet (12') on
double front or corner lot (if 2 signs are employed).
         d.   Be set back five feet (5') within the property lines upon which
the principal building is located.
         e.   Be limited to a maximum face area of thirty two (32) square feet
per side.
         f.   Have all supports, frames and posts painted or otherwise
finished.
         g.   Be included in the total sign area authorized for a business or
use. One side only is counted if the sign is freestanding.
         h.   Be designed and constructed to withstand a ninety five (95) mile
per hour wind.
      2.   Business Complex Allowance Of Freestanding Signs: A business complex
shall be allowed one freestanding sign with a maximum of seventy five (75)
square feet of sign face area of which thirty three percent (33%) must be
dedicated to identifying the building complex.
      3.   Business Complexes Located On Corner Or Double Lots: A business
complex located on a corner lot or on a double fronting lot shall be allowed
two (2) freestanding signs, one per street only, with a maximum of sixty (60)
square feet of sign face area per sign, of which thirty three percent (33%)
must be dedicated to identifying the building complex.
      4.   Marquee Signs: Marquee signs designed with changeable letters to
change text or message shall be included in the total signage authorized for
the business or use.
      5.   Canopy Signs: Gas station canopy signs are permitted on two (2)
sides of a canopy, each sign not to exceed ten (10) square feet.
   B.   Projecting Signs:
      1.   Projecting signs may be used in lieu of a hanging sign and shall:
         a.   Be limited to a single, two (2) sided sign per use.
         b.   Not be higher than the ridgeline or the parapet wall of the
building to which it is attached.
         c.   Not be higher than twelve feet (12') above ground level as
measured to the top of the sign or supports, whichever is higher.
         d.   Be a minimum of eight feet (8') above grade.
         e.   Not extend more than four feet (4') from a building wall.
         f.   Not project over any vehicular traffic area.
         g.   Be limited to a maximum face area of sixteen (16) square feet per
side.
      2.   Neon signs as projecting signs are not permitted.
   C.   Attached Signs:
      1.   Attached signs shall:
         a.   Not project more than six inches (6") from the wall on which they
are displayed.
         b.   Have a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet of total sign area.
For businesses with additional street or parking lot fronts, shall be permitted
an additional sixteen (16) square feet per additional street or parking lot
front.
      2.   Cutout letter signs shall be considered attached signs if attached
to a building. (Draw a box around the words to calculate the surface area.)
      3.   Reserved.
      4.   Business complexes shall be allowed a maximum of thirty two (32)
square feet of attached signage per business/commercial space and each business
complex shall be allowed a business identification sign that is not associated
with any of the businesses within the complex and shall not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet.
      5.   A single business in a stand alone building shall be allowed twenty
percent (20%) of the area of the wall on which they are displayed, or eighty
(80) square feet total sign area, whichever is less.
   D.   Hanging Signs:
      1.   Hanging signs may be used in lieu of a projecting sign and shall:
         a.   Be located under a porch, portal, or covered walkway.
         b.   Be limited to four (4) square feet per side. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-
2017)
9-8-5: OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Permitted Off Premises Signs:
      1.   Off premises signs will be permitted only for businesses located
along designated arterial streets, and will be for the purpose of direction
only.
      2.   All persons requesting off premises signs will be required to
present written permission from the owner approving the placement of the sign
and the proof of ownership of the property in question.
   B.   Area:
      1.   The total area permitted is thirty two (32) square feet per side.
      2.   The area of one (1) side of an off premises sign will be included in
the total signage of the business.
   C.   Number Of Signs:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one (1) off premises sign per lot.
      2.   Where there is an existing on premises freestanding sign, no off
premises sign shall be permitted.
      3.   Where there is an existing off premises sign, an on premises sign
shall not be permitted until the off premises sign is removed. (Ord. 2017-03,
4-25-2017)
9-8-6: STRUCTURAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTERISTICS:
   A.   No lettering on any sign, including cutout letter signs, shall exceed
eighteen inches (18") in height, except for multiple- family/business complex
identification signs which may have letters no more than twenty four inches
(24") in height.
   B.   No sign shall be placed above the parapet of the wall or above the
eaves or on any roof.
   C.   All supports and frames shall be painted, sealed, or stained.
   D.   Signage within the Village shall complement the mountain environs of
Angel Fire.
   E.   Except for backlit signs, freestanding signs shall be framed in natural
wood.
   F.   All steel posts, concrete posts, similar materials and sign face frames
shall be wrapped or covered with natural wood or shall be painted a wood brown
or forest green color.
   G.   Freestanding signs shall have a maximum of two (2) posts. (Ord. 2017-
03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-7: BANNER SIGNS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   Business Or Event: Banner signs for a business or event require a
permit.
      2.   Banners:
         a.   Banners For Business Events: Banners for business events shall be
reviewed and permits granted for a maximum of sixty (60) days per calendar year
for business events only, with no banner being displayed more than thirty (30)
consecutive days. A business may spread its sixty (60) days of display over the
duration of the calendar year, provided all of the display dates are listed on
the banner application. The banner shall be displayed only in front of that
business.
         b.   Political And Not For Profit Banners: Political and not for
profit banners require a permit and require permission from the property owner,
but are exempt from permit fees. These banners may be installed ten (10) days
prior to the event/activity and must be taken down at the end of the event/
activity.
         c.   Non-Event Banners: Not for profit -501 organizations, can submit
an application for a permanent annual on premises permit for non-event banners.
         d.   Size: Maximum size of a banner sign shall be thirty (30) square
feet.
         e.   Condition: All banners must be kept in good repair and stretched
tight.
      3.   Yard Signs:
         a.   For 5013C nonprofits only and require a permit with permission
from the property owner, but are exempt from permit fees. These yard signs may
be installed ten (10) days prior to the event/activity and must be taken down
at the end of the event/activity.
         b.   The maximum size for the yard signs shall be three (3) square
feet.
   B.   No Permit Required:
      1.   Gasoline Price Signs: Gasoline price signs shall:
         a.   Not require a sign permit.
         b.   Be permitted on site, double faced, and shall not exceed twelve
(12) square feet of surface area.
         c.   Have no other advertising beyond brand name and price.
      2.   Garage Sale And Private Event Signs: There will be a three (3) day
limit on garage sale and private event signs, and they must be removed the day
following the day of the sale.
      3.   Reserved.
      4.   Vacancy/No Vacancy Signs: Vacancy/no vacancy signs, provided they do
not exceed two (2) square feet in face area.
      5.   Open/Closed Signs: Open/closed signs, provided they do not exceed
four (4) square feet in face area.
      6.   On Site Direction Signs: On site direction signs, provided they do
not exceed two (2) square feet in face area and are limited to directional
information only.
      7.   Flags:
         a.   Residential: Pole may not exceed the building height.
         b.   Commercial: Pole may not exceed ten feet (10') higher than the
building, with a maximum of two (2) flagpoles per commercial lot.
      8.   Real Estate Signs (For Sale Or For Rent):
         a.   For Sale Or For Rent Signs Generally: One (1) nonilluminated sign
may be used for advertising the sale or rental of a property.
            (1)   It shall not exceed three (3) square feet for residential
property or five and one-half (5.5) square feet for commercial property.
            (2)   The sign shall be removed within seven (7) days after the
sale or rental of the property.
            (3)   Only one (1) real estate sign shall be on any one (1)
property at one time, except for lots that are adjacent to Monte Verde Lake,
the golf course, or the ski area may have a maximum of two (2) signs, with up
to one (1) sign facing the amenity.
         b.   For Sale By Owner: For sale by owner signs must follow the same
regulations as real estate for sale signs.
         c.   Open House Sign:
            (1)   No more than five (5) directional or informational signs,
each of which is no more than three (3) square feet, are allowed, provided they
are located on private property.
            (2)   All signs must be removed within twenty four (24) hours of
the open house but in no event more than four (4) days after being erected or
placed.
         d.   Location: Signs are not to be installed in the street right- of-
way.
      9.   Construction Site Signs: Construction site signs shall be limited to
sixteen (16) square feet per side, with a maximum height of five feet (5') and
will be limited to one (1) per site. Construction site signs shall be erected
after a building permit has been issued and shall be removed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      10.   Residential Identification Signs:
         a.   Single-family residential identification signs, such as the name
and/or address of the property owner, shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
Signs existing on the effective date of this title shall be nonconforming until
there is a change in ownership, at which time the nonconforming sign shall be
brought into compliance. Anything larger will need approval from the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
         b.   Home watch security signs identifying the name and phone number
of a caretaker company under contract to monitor the security of a residence
shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
         c.   Multi-family residential complexes shall be allowed one (1)
monument sign per street front not to exceed four feet (4') in height and
thirty two (32) square feet in total sign face area. Each monument sign shall
incorporate one hundred (100) square feet of landscaping.
      11.   Sandwich Boards And Feather Flags: One (1) each allowed per
business.
         a.   Sandwich boards shall:
            (1)   Have a maximum sign face area twenty eight inches (28") wide
by forty two inches (42") in height.
            (2)   Not be placed in right-of-way and not be electrified.
            (3)   Must be removed at close of business each day.
         b.   Feather flags shall:
            (1)   Have a maximum size of banner of 2.5' x 8' with a post no
more than twelve feet (12').
            (2)   Not be placed in right-of-way and not be electrified.
      12.   Awning Signs: Awning signs, provided lettering does not exceed six
inches (6") in height. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unsafe Situations:
      1.   No sign shall be erected, located, or maintained that limits free
and unfettered ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
      2.   No sign of any kind shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      3.   No sign or other advertising shall be erected at the intersection of
any street in a manner which obstructs free and clear vision; at any location
whereby its position, shape or color may interfere with, obstruct the view of,
or be confused with any traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of
the words "stop", "look", "danger", or any other word, phrase, symbol or
character that may interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   B.   Obscene, Indecent Signs: It is unlawful for any person to display any
obscene, indecent or immoral matter on any sign or other advertising structure.
   C.   Flashing, Moving Signs:
      1.   Other than open/closed/vacancy signs inside of a building, no sign
shall flash, blink, vary in intensity, revolve, or otherwise appear to be in
motion. This provision includes signs inside a building that are visible from
outside of the building.
      2.   Flashing, blinking, running lights, and moving signs are prohibited.
Time/temperature signs and electronic marquee signs are exempted from this
prohibition.
   D.   Overhanging Signs: No sign shall be erected, located or maintained on
or over public property or rights-of-way without Council approval, upon
recommendation of the commission.
   E.   Interference With Existing Signs: All proposed sign locations may be
inspected to ensure that a new sign does not interfere with an existing sign.
   F.   Neon Signs: No neon type signs are allowed except vacancy/no vacancy
and open/closed signs as per subsections
9-8-7B4 and B5 of this chapter.
   G.   Commercial Signs Attached To Trees: No commercial signs (excluding real
estate signs) shall be attached to trees.
   H.   Banner Type Signs: No banner type signs or feather flags shall be
placed on any vehicle.
   I.   Trailer Type Signs: No signs incorporated on a frame with wheel axles
or mounted on any type of trailer is permitted. Removal of tires or axles does
not constitute a change in sign status.
   J.   Painted Signs: Signs shall not be painted directly on exterior walls or
roofs of a building. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-9: VACANT BUILDING SIGNS:
If a business leaves a building or portion of a building vacant for more than
thirty (30) days, the owner of the subject building shall remove all sign
messages related to the previous occupant. If there are signs with plastic
panels on the premises, those panels shall be removed and replaced with
plastic, wood or similar material; colored or painted to match the building, or
may be painted, or colored white. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-10: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any nonconforming sign legally erected prior to the effective date of this
title shall be required to be brought into compliance when there is a change in
ownership of the sign, a change in the type of business, or any proposed
modification to the subject sign. A nonconforming sign that is knocked down due
to weather, or that is removed for building or parking lot maintenance shall
not be reconstructed or erected unless it can be brought into compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-11: REMOVAL OF SIGNS:
   A.   Obsolete Signs: Any sign now or hereafter existing which does not
advertise an active business operation or a product sold shall be taken down
and removed within thirty (30) days by the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, lot or structure upon which the sign may be
found.
   B.   Repair And Renovation Of Area: Whenever a sign is removed from a
building or structure, the building or structure shall be cleaned and/or
painted, and all sign supports, brackets, mounts, utilities or other connecting
devices shall be removed so that there is no visible trace of the removed sign.
(Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-12: POSTING ADDRESS:
   A.   All residential property owners shall be responsible for maintaining
their street addresses in view, day and night from a point where the street and
the owner's driveway meet.
   B.   All commercial property owners shall be responsible for maintaining and
displaying their street numbers on their buildings utilizing six inch (6")
numbers and four inch (4") letters for individual suites and lease spaces.
(Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-13: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
   A.   The Village Community Center is authorized to use the median located in
the North Angel Fire Road right-of-way and in the ROW (right-of-way) on Valley
Road for directional purposes and to advertise ongoing and upcoming events held
at the Community Center, provided such signage does not interfere with a
driver's ability to see through the intersections in all directions.
   B.   The Village may, with a contractual agreement with a property owner,
install, erect, or place a freestanding sign in addition to total face area
permitted for that specific property for the purposes of disseminating
community information. Except for total face area and number of freestanding
signs permitted, all other sign provisions of this title shall apply. (Ord.
2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-14: REMEDIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Noncomplying signs shall put the owner in violation of this title. Once
notified in writing of any violation, an owner has ten (10) business days to
comply or be sited into Municipal Court. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-25-2017)
9-8-15: LED SIGNS:
LED Signs: LED signs are digital signs designed to change images or messages
electronically.
   A.   Must contain a default mechanism that freezes the image in one position
in case of a malfunction;
   B.   Must automatically adjust the sign brightness based on natural ambient
light conditions in compliance with the following formula:
      1.   The ambient light level measured in luxes, divided by 256 and then
rounded down to the nearest whole number, equals the dimming level; then
      2.   The dimming level, multiplied by .0039 equals the brightness level;
then
      3.   The brightness level, multiplied by the maximum brightness of the
specific sign measured in nits, equals the allowed sign brightness, measured in
nits. For example:
         32768 (ambient light in luxes) ÷ 256 = 128 (dimming level)
         128 (dimming level) x 0.0039 = 0.4992 (brightness level)
         0.4992 (brightness level) x 9000 (maximum brightness of the example
sign) = 4492.8 (allowed brightness in nits)
   C.   Must be turned off between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.(with the exception
of a time and temperature display); and
   D.   May not display light of such intensity or brilliance to cause glare,
impair the vision of an ordinary driver, or constitute a nuisance.
   E.   Light intensity. Before the issuance of a video board sign permit, the
applicant shall provide written certification from the sign manufacturer that:
      1.   The light intensity has been factory programmed to comply with the
maximum brightness and dimming standards in the table in Subparagraph (a)(l)
(B); and
      2.   The light intensity is protected from end-user manipulation by
password-protected software, or other method satisfactory to the building
official.
   F.   Change of message. Except as provided in this section, changes of
message must comply with the following:
      1.   Each message must be displayed for a minimum of eight seconds.
      2.   Changes of message must be accomplished within two seconds.
      3.   Changes of message must occur simultaneously on the entire sign
face.
      4.   No flashing, dimming, or brightening of message is permitted except
to accommodate changes of message.
   G.   Malfunction. LED sign operators must respond to a malfunction or safety
issue within one hour after notification. Malfunctioning signage that creates a
visual hazard must be turned off until repaired.
   H.   LED signs shall be permitted by conditional use permit only.
      1.   One LED sign shall be permitted in a public venue space ( an area
that hosts a combination of public concerts, farmers markets, and other
community events). This LED sign shall be permitted to provide public service
announcements and off-premise advertising. This LED sign shall not exceed one
hundred (100) square feet. This LED sign must comply with provisions A, B, D,
E, F, and G of this section. (Ord. 23-02, 3-14-2023)
9-8-16: SIGN VARIANCES:
   A.   The Village Council shall consider variances to the sign regulations
(with exception of residential identification signs) recommended by the
Commission and Coordinator. The Council may vary the size, number, or location
of a sign. The Council may provide a variance when:
      1.   Presented with evidence that strict compliance will result in a
substantial financial hardship; or
      2.   The creation of an inequity to the applicant without sufficient
corresponding benefit to the Village and its citizens in accomplishing the
objectives of this article. (Ord. 23-02, 3-14-2023)
CHAPTER 9
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-9-1: Districts Established
9-9-2: Zoning District Map
9-9-3: Uses
9-9-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes of this title, the Village is hereby divided
into the following zoning districts:
R-1 Single-Family Residential
R-2 Medium Density Residential
R-3 High Density Residential
R-4 Single-Family, Equestrian
R-5 Single-Family Cluster
R-6 Mobile Home Residential
C-1 Office, Retail Commercial
C-2 General Commercial
MVB Mountain View Boulevard North Corridor Overlay Zone
HC  Heavy Commercial
O-1 Core
O-2 Mixed Use
O-3 Greenbelts and Open Space
O-4 Golf Course and Recreation
O-5 Ski Area, Recreational
O-6 Girl Scout Ranch, Recreational
 
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-03, 4-21-2005; Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010;
Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-2016; Ord. 2019-08, 7-30-2019)
9-9-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Incorporation By Reference; Copies: The official zoning map of the
Village, with the location and boundaries of the established zoning districts
set forth thereon (plat A attached to the ordinance codified herein), and with
all notations, references, and other information shown thereon, is incorporated
as part of this title. Notwithstanding the existence of copies of the official
zoning map, the official zoning map, reflecting the zoning districts within the
Village, is available for public inspection upon request.
   B.   Changes To Map: All changes to the official zoning map for the Village
made in accordance with the provisions of this title shall be entered on such
map.
   C.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: The commission, if necessary, may
interpret the official zoning map. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
boundaries of the various districts, as shown on the district map, the
following rules shall apply:
      1.   Public Ways: The district boundaries are either streets or alleys
unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the zoning
district map are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the centerline
of such street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
      2.   Lot Lines: Where the district boundaries are not otherwise
indicated, and where the property has been or is divided into blocks and lots,
the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the district map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
      3.   Zoning District Map: In unsubdivided property, the district boundary
lines on the zoning district map shall be determined by use of the scale
appearing on the map. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-9-3: USES:
Except as herein provided, no building, structure, or property shall hereafter
be used, and no building or other structure shall be erected, constructed,
altered, or moved to or within the Village, except in conformance with this
title defining the zoning district in which such building, structure, or
property is located. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 10
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10A-1: Purpose
9-10A-2: Permitted Uses
9-10A-3: Conditional Uses
9-10A-4: Development Standards
9-10A-5: Off Street Parking
9-10A-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the R-1 district is created is to provide areas for low
density single-family residential development along with customary accessory
uses. Full time occupancy shall not exceed six (6) unrelated persons, unless
otherwise permitted by law. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building, one, having residential uses customarily incidental to
single-family dwelling units.
Detached garages, provided all setbacks and open space requirements are met and
structure is architecturally compatible with the principal building. Minimum
building separation of ten feet (10'), including eaves.
Dwelling unit: One single-family residence.
Garage sale, two (2) per year.
Garages, private, accessory to the principal permitted use shall be consistent
with this zoning code and the building codes and aesthetically compatible.
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this title.
Noncommercial greenhouse or gazebo.
Planned unit developments.
Sign, one, with the name of resident or owner and street address of two (2)
square feet maximum will be allowed without a sign permit; minimum setback of
five feet (5'). (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord.
2011-01, 1-11-2011; Ord. 2021-9, 9-14-2021)
9-10A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
On lots of one (1) or over, one detached or attached accessory living quarters
may be added within one hundred feet (100') of the principal dwelling, but not
larget than fifty percent (50%) of the area of the principal dwelling with a
minimum of fiver hundred (500) square feet of heated living space.
      A.   Standards:
         1.   Detached or attached accessory living quarters shall be a
conditional use in R-1 zoning subject to the following requirements:
            a.   All setback and open space requirements are met and structure
is architecturally compatible with the principle building.
            b.   Minimum separation of detached structures of ten feet (10'),
including eaves.
            c.   A minimum of an additional two (2) off-street parking spaces
are provided on the property in addition to current parking spaces.
            d.   Additional encroachments will require a separate permit and
meet or exceed all encroachment codes and standards.
            e.   Connection to Village water system and waste water system in
required if the primary structure is also required to connect.
            f.   Septic systems (if permitted) must meet or exceed size and
system requirements for the addition of the accessory living quarters.
Small residential wind energy system generating ten (10) kilowatts or less.
      A.   Standards:
         1.   Small residential wind energy systems shall be a conditional use
in all zoning districts subject to the following requirements:
            a.   Maximum Tower Height: The vertical distance from ground level
to the tip of a wind generator blade and shall not exceed thirty five feet
(35') from outside edge of rotor.
            b.   Setbacks: A wind tower for a small residential wind system
shall be set back a distance equal to its total height from:
               (1)   Any public road right of way, unless written permission is
granted by the governmental entity with jurisdiction over the road;
               (2)   Any overhead utility lines, unless written permission is
granted by the affected utility;
               (3)   All property lines, unless written permission is granted
from the affected landowner or neighbor.
            c.   Access:
               (1)   All ground mounted electrical and control equipment shall
be labeled or secured to prevent unauthorized access.
               (2)   The tower shall be designed and installed so as to not
provide step bolts or a ladder readily accessible to the public for a minimum
height of eight feet (8') above the ground.
            d.   Electrical Wires: All electrical wires associated with a small
wind energy system, other than wires necessary to connect the wind generator to
the tower wiring, the tower wiring to the disconnect junction box, and the
grounding wires shall be located underground.
            e.   Lighting: A wind tower and generator shall not be artificially
lighted unless such lighting is required by the federal aviation
administration.
            f.   Appearance, Color, And Finish: The wind generator and tower
shall remain painted or finished the color or finish that was originally
applied by the manufacturer, unless approved in the building permit.
            g.   Signs: All signs, other than the manufacturer's or installer's
identification, appropriate warning signs, or owner identification on a wind
generator, tower, building, or other structure associated with a small wind
energy system visible from any public road shall be prohibited.
            h.   Code Compliance: A small residential wind energy system
including tower shall comply with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes, and the national electrical code.
            i.   Utility Notification And Interconnection: Small residential
wind energy systems that connect to the electric utility shall comply with the
public service commission of New Mexico rules.
            j.   Sound: Small residential wind energy systems shall not exceed
sixty (60) dBA, as measured on any adjacent properties. The level, however, may
be exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms.
      B.   Permit Requirements:
         1.   Building Permit: A building permit shall be required for the
installation of a small residential wind energy system.
         2.   Documents: The building permit application shall be accompanied
by a plot plan which includes the following:
            a.   Property lines and physical dimensions of the property;
            b.   Location, dimensions, and types of existing major structures
on the property;
            c.   Location of the proposed wind system tower;
            d.   The right of way of any public road that is contiguous with
the property;
            e.   Any overhead utility lines;
            f.   Wind system specifications, including manufacturer and model,
rotor diameter, tower height, tower type (freestanding or guyed);
            g.   Tower foundation blueprints or drawings;
            h.   Tower blueprint or drawing;
         3.   Fees: The application for a building permit for a small
residential wind energy system must be accompanied by the fee required for a
building permit for a permitted accessory use.
         4.   Expiration: A permit issued pursuant to this use shall expire if:
            a.   The small residential wind energy system is not installed and
functioning within six (6) months from the date the permit is issued; or
            b.   The small residential wind energy system is out of service or
otherwise unused for a continuous twelve (12) month period.
      C.   Abandonment:
         1.   A small residential wind energy system that is out of service for
a continuous twelve (12) month period will be deemed to have been abandoned.
The chief building inspector may issue a notice of abandonment to the owner of
a small residential wind energy system that is deemed to have been abandoned.
The owner shall have the right to respond to the notice of abandonment within
thirty (30) days from notice receipt date. The chief building inspector shall
withdraw the notice of abandonment and notify the owner that the notice has
been withdrawn if the owner provides information that demonstrates the small
wind energy system has not been abandoned.
         2.   If the small residential wind energy system is determined to be
abandoned, the owner of a small residential wind energy system shall remove the
wind generator and the tower at the owner's sole expense within ninety (90)
days of receipt of notice of abandonment. If the owner fails to remove the wind
generator and the tower, the chief building inspector may pursue a legal action
to have the wind generator and tower removed at the owner's expense.
      D.   Building Permit Procedure:
         1.   An owner shall submit an application to the chief building
inspector for a building permit for a small residential wind energy system. The
application must be on a form approved by the chief building inspector and must
be accompanied by two (2) copies of the plot plan identified in subsection B2
of this use.
         2.   The chief building inspector shall issue a permit or deny the
application within one month of the date on which the application is received.
         3.   The chief building inspector shall issue a building permit for a
small residential wind energy system if the application materials show that the
proposed small wind energy system meets the requirements of this use.
         4.   If the application is approved, the chief building inspector will
return one signed copy of the application with the permit and retain the other
copy with the application.
         5.   If the application is rejected, the chief building inspector will
notify the applicant in writing and provide a written statement of the reason
why the application was rejected. The applicant may reapply if the deficiencies
specified by the chief building inspector are resolved.
         6.   The owner shall conspicuously post the building permit on the
premises so as to be visible to the public at all times until construction or
installation of the small residential wind energy system is complete.
      E.   Administration And Enforcement:
         1.   This use shall be administered by the chief building inspector or
other official as designated.
         2.   The chief building inspector may issue orders to abate any
violation of this use.
         3.   The chief building inspector may issue a citation for any
violation of this use.
         4.   The chief building inspector file a complaint for any violation
of this use to municipal court.
      F.   Penalties: Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this
use or a building permit issued pursuant to this use shall be subject to
enforcement and penalties as stipulated in section
9-3-9 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2008-05, 7-15-2008;
Ord. 2011-01, 1-11-2011; Ord. 2021-08, 9-14-2021)
9-10A-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty one thousand (21,000) square feet. Lots that
were legally platted into sizes less than twenty one thousand (21,000) square
feet before December 31, 1999, are considered developable, nonconforming lots.
All lot fronts shall be adjacent to and share a common boundary with a public
right of way.
   B.   Minimum Front Lot Width: One hundred feet (100'); cul-de-sac lots shall
have a minimum width of thirty feet (30'); lots with a twenty percent (20%)
slope or greater shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet (200'); cul-de-
sac lots with a twenty percent (20%) slope or greater shall have a minimum
width of fifty feet (50').
   C.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty five feet (25') from any road
frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
      5.   Twenty percent (20%) slope lot, minimum front setback: May be
reduced with council approval. The percent slope of a lot is measured from the
middle point of the front lot line to the middle point of the rear lot line.
The formula for determining the slope of a lot is listed in section
9-2-1 of this title.
   D.   Accessory Building: Two hundred (200) square foot maximum on a
permanent foundation. One allowed per lot and is to be architecturally
compatible with the main structure.
   E.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: Thirty five feet (35') measured from high side
of final grade to highest point of roof. In no case shall the height of any
structure exceed the top horizon ridgeline as seen from the intersection of
Mountain View Boulevard and North Angel Fire Road.
      2.   Garage: If attached, no higher than the principal building.
      3.   Accessory building and detached garages: Twenty four feet (24').
   F.   Open Space Required: Fifty five percent (55%) of the lot area shall be
open, unencumbered and free of any building, structure, parking, or driveways.
   G.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   H.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or grading shall not adversely
change water runoff onto adjacent parcels or onto public right of way.
   I.   On Site Wastewater Treatment Systems: Must comply with NMED
regulations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord. 2006-
11, 10-19-2006; Ord. 2021-9, 9-14-2021)
9-10A-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) spaces per dwelling unit is required.
   B.   Recreational vehicles ("RV") may be parked and/or occupied in open,
unscreened areas for not more than one week at a time, not to exceed four (4)
weeks per year. Long term use of an RV as a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10A-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals (including horses, llamas, etc.), or
noncompanion animals (including livestock and farm animals such as chickens or
goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by solid fencing.
      3.   Entry gates are permitted as per subsection
9-7-10D of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE B.  R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10B-1: Purpose
9-10B-2: Permitted Uses
9-10B-3: Conditional Uses
9-10B-4: Development Standards
9-10B-5: Off Street Parking
9-10B-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the R-2 district is created is to provide areas for more
intensive residential development than allowed in the R-1 district, along with
customary accessory uses. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10B-2: PERMITTED USES:
R-1 (all provisions).
Accessory uses common to low density residential property (garages, storage
units).
Bed and breakfast (must meet state regulations).
Dwelling unit(s): Maximum of four (4) attached dwelling units.
Group homes.
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this title.
Planned unit developments.
Townhouse subdivision lots. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-
2005)
9-10B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Detached garages for single-family dwellings only, provided all setbacks and
open space requirements are met and structure is architecturally compatible
with the principal building; minimum building separation of ten feet (10'),
including eaves, and a maximum floor area of eight hundred fifty (850) square
feet.
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
9-10B-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Density: Eight (8) dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty one thousand (21,000) square feet. Lots that
were legally platted into sizes less than twenty one thousand (21,000) square
feet before December 31, 1999, are considered developable, nonconforming lots.
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: One hundred feet (100'); cul-de-sac lots shall
have a minimum width of thirty feet (30'); lots with a twenty percent (20%)
slope or greater shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet (200'); cul-de-
sac lots with a twenty percent (20%) slope or greater shall have a minimum
width of fifty feet (50').
   D.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty five feet (25') (any road frontage).
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
   E.   Accessory Building: Shall be on a permanent foundation, one per unit
plus one for complex.
   F.   Private Garages: Private garages accessory to the principal permitted
use shall be consistent with this title and the building codes and
aesthetically compatible.
   G.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building(s): Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory building: Sixteen feet (16').
   H.   Open Space: Forty percent (40%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered and free of any building, structure, parking or driveways.
   I.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   J.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or parking lots shall not place
water runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way.
   K.   On Site Wastewater Treatment Systems: Must comply with NMED
regulations.
   L.   Townhouse Subdivision Lots:
      1.   Minimum lot area: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
      2.   Minimum front lot width: Twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Minimum side setback: Interior lots, zero feet (0'); exterior lots,
ten feet (10').
      4.   All other development standards and provisions of this article shall
apply. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord. 2005-01, 1-
20-2005; Ord. 2006-11, 10-19-2006; Ord. 2021-9, 9-14-2021)
9-10B-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Minimum of two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit, plus one guest
parking space per two (2) dwelling units.
   B.   Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all points of ingress/
egress to the public right of way.
   C.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) may not be parked for more than one week at
a time for up to four (4) weeks per year. Long term use of motor home or RV as
a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10B-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals (including horses, llamas, etc.), or
noncompanion animals (including livestock and farm animals such as chickens or
goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2004)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by solid fencing. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE C.  R-3 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10C-1: Purpose
9-10C-2: Permitted Uses
9-10C-3: Conditional Uses
9-10C-4: Development Standards
9-10C-5: Off Street Parking
9-10C-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the R-3 district is created is to provide areas for more
intensive development than allowed in the R-2 districts, along with customary
accessory uses. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10C-2: PERMITTED USES:
R-2 permitted uses.
Bed and breakfast (must meet state regulations).
Dwelling units, attached; maximum of twenty (20).
Garage, storage unit, carport, gazebo for on site residential unit use only.
Group homes.
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this title.
Planned unit developments. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
Public schools. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
9-10C-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Density: Twenty (20) dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty one thousand (21,000) square feet. Lots that
comply with minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards may
have a minimum area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: One hundred feet (100'); lots with a twenty
percent (20%) slope or greater shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet
(200'). No minimum lot width shall be required for lots that comply with
minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards.
   D.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty five feet (25') from any road
frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Shall be on a permanent foundation and be
aesthetically compatible with principal structure.
   F.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building(s): Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory building(s): Sixteen feet (16').
   G.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered and free of any building, structure, parking or driveway. Village
council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision with the
consideration of an approved site plan.
   H.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   I.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or parking lots shall not place
water runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-
17-2002; amd. Ord. 2006-11, 10-19-2006; Ord. 2021-9, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2024-01,
12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-10C-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Minimum of two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit, plus one guest space
for each three (3) dwelling units.
   B.   Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all points of ingress/
egress to the public right of way.
   C.   Recreational vehicles may be parked in open, unscreened areas for not
more than one week at a time, not to exceed four (4) weeks per year. Long term
use of an RV as a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10C-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals (including horses, llamas, etc.), or
noncompanion animals (including livestock and farm animals such as chickens or
goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by solid fencing. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE D.  R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY, EQUESTRIAN DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10D-1: Purpose
9-10D-2: Permitted Uses
9-10D-3: Conditional Uses
9-10D-4: Development Standards
9-10D-5: Off Street Parking
9-10D-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10D-1: PURPOSE:
The R-4 district permits low density single-family housing and uses incidental
thereto, including limited equestrian uses. Clustering of houses is
recommended. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10D-2: PERMITTED USES:
R-1 permitted uses.
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this zoning code.
Horses: Large animals and noncompanion animals not allowed except horses.
   A.   One horse per acre.
   B.   Not to be pastured closer than one hundred feet (100') of a stream or
wetland.
   C.   Barn or stable required, with a maximum size of three thousand (3,000)
square feet, and a minimum size of two hundred (200) square feet.
   D.   Fencing required; no barbed wire or razor ribbon.
   E.   Animal odors must be controlled.
Planned unit developments.
Single-family residences. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-10D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory living quarters, one, not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
principal building floor area.
Detached garages, provided all setbacks and open space requirements are met and
the structure is architecturally compatible with the principal building.
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-10D-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Density: One dwelling unit per 2.5 acres.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: 2.5 acres. Lots that were legally platted into sizes
less than 2.5 acres before December 31, 1999, are considered developable,
nonconforming lots.
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: Two hundred feet (200').
   D.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty five feet (25') from any road
frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Must be on a permanent foundation, and
aesthetically compatible.
   F.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory building: Twenty five feet (25').
   G.   Open Space: Sixty five percent (65%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, corral, parking or
driveways.
   H.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   I.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or grading shall not adversely
change water runoff onto adjacent lots or on public rights of way.
   J.   On Site Wastewater Treatment Systems: Must comply with NMED
regulations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord. 2021-
9, 9-14-2021)
9-10D-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) spaces per dwelling unit is required.
   B.   Recreational vehicles ("RV") may be parked and/or occupied in open
unscreened area for not more than one week at a time, not to exceed four (4)
weeks per year. Long term use of an RV as a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10D-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: One horse per acre is permitted. No large animals (llamas, etc.),
or noncompanion animals (including livestock and farm animals such as chickens
or goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2004)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot. Nonopaque fences of sealed wood, painted
steel, or a combination thereof are permitted anywhere within the buildable
area of the lot.
      3.   Entry gates are permitted as per subsection
9-7-10D of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE E.  R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10E-1: Purpose
9-10E-2: Permitted Uses
9-10E-3: Conditional Uses
9-10E-4: Development Standards
9-10E-5: Off Street Parking
9-10E-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10E-1: PURPOSE:
The R-5 district is intended for both attached and detached single-family
housing organized around cul-de-sacs or short loop streets with lot lines
designed to maximize open space. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this title.
Planned unit developments.
Single-family residences. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
R-1 permitted uses.
Detached garages, provided all setbacks and open space requirements are met and
structure is architecturally compatible with the principal building.
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-10E-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Density: One dwelling unit per five (5) acres.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: Five (5) acres. Lots that were legally platted with
less than five (5) acres before December 31, 1999, are considered developable,
nonconforming lots. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: Sixty feet (60'); lots with a twenty percent
(20%) slope or greater shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet (200').
   D.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty five feet (25') from any road
frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Shall be on a permanent foundation and be
aesthetically compatible.
   F.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory building: Twenty four feet (24').
   G.   Open Space: Ninety percent (90%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, parking, or driveways.
   H.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   I.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or grading shall not adversely
change water runoff onto adjacent lots or on public rights of way.
   J.   On Site Wastewater Treatment Systems: Must comply with NMED
regulations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord. 2006-
11, 10-19-2006)
9-10E-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Dwelling Unit: Minimum of two (2) spaces for each residential unit.
   B.   Recreational Vehicle: Recreational vehicles (RVs) may not be parked for
more than one week at a time for up to four (4) weeks per year. Long term use
of motor home or RV as a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10E-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals or noncompanion animals (including livestock and
farm animals such as chickens or goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2004)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by opaque fencing.
      3.   Entry gates are permitted as per subsection
9-7-10D of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE F.  R-6 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10F-1: Purpose
9-10F-2: Permitted Uses
9-10F-3: Conditional Uses
9-10F-4: Development Standards
9-10F-5: Off Street Parking
9-10F-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-6 district is to provide areas for medium density
residential development for manufactured homes along with customary accessory
uses. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet, on a permanent
foundation, having residential uses customarily incidental to single-family
dwelling units.
Dwelling unit: One single-family manufactured housing unit per lot.
Garages, private, accessory to the principal permitted use shall be consistent
with this zoning code and the building codes and aesthetically compatible.
Greenhouse or gazebo for personal use.
Home occupations: See section
9-7-6 of this zoning code. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-
2004)
9-10F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
Mobile home park, rental spaces. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10F-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet. Lots that comply
with minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards may have a
minimum area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Maximum Density: Twenty (20) dwelling units per acre.
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: Sixty feet (60'). No minimum lot width shall
be required for lots that comply with minimum state requirements for water and
wastewater standards.
   D.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Fifteen feet (15') from any road frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Eight feet (8').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Ten feet (10').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Forty
five feet (45').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Shall be on a permanent foundation and
aesthetically compatible.
   F.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Accessory building: Sixteen feet (16').
      3.   Garages: No higher than principal building.
   G.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered and free of any building, structure, parking or driveways. Village
council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision with the
consideration of an approved site plan.
   H.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this zoning code.
   I.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or grading shall not adversely
change water runoff onto adjacent lots. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord.
2021-9, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-10F-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) spaces per dwelling unit is required.
   B.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) may be parked in open, unscreened areas for
not more than one week at a time, not to exceed four (4) weeks per year. Long
term use of an RV as a dwelling is not permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-10F-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals (horses, llamas, etc.), or noncompanion animals
(including livestock and farm animals such as chickens or goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this zoning code for additional lighting requirements. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002)
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this zoning code. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004)
   E.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
         b.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      2.   Opaque fences and walls and chainlink fencing shall not be used
around the perimeter of the lot, and the required open space shall not contain
any area enclosed by solid fencing.
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   All structures in this district must be skirted (siding to the
ground) with a material consistent with the exterior of the home.
      2.   All structures shall be permanently attached to the ground or
foundation.
      3.   Colors must be compatible with mountain environment as outlined in
section
9-7-11 of this zoning code. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE G. R-7 SINGLE-FAMILY VILLAGE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10G-1: Purpose
9-10G-2: Permitted Uses
9-10G-3: Conditional Uses
9-10G-4: Development Standards
9-10G-5: Off Street Parking
9-10G-6: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-10G-1: PURPOSE:
The R-7 district permits low and medium-density single-family housing,
accessory dwelling units and home occupational uses that are deemed
appropriate. Clustering of lots and houses is recommended. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-12-
2021)
9-10G-2: PERMITTED USES:
C-1, C-2, O-1, O-2 and R-5 for planned housing developments and subdivisions
(Core Area). (Ord. 2021-01, 1-12-2021)
9-10G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory living quarters, maximum one per single-family lot, on permanent
foundations and not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the principal dwelling
floor area.
Bed & Breakfast (must meet state regulations).
Detached garages, provided all setbacks and open space requirements are met and
the structure is architecturally compatible with the principal dwelling.
Home occupations: Including in the accessory building or accessory living
quarters (See section
9-7-6 of this zoning code).
Non-commercial greenhouse or gazebo. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-12-2021)
9-10G-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Density: Two (2) dwelling units per lot with only one being the
principle dwelling unit with a maximum of three (3) permanent structures per
Village Home District single lot provided all setbacks and open space
requirements are met and all the structures are architecturally compatible with
the principal building.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet per lot with a
maximum total lot density of three (3) lots per acre of the total subdivision
acreage.
   C.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback for cluster subdivisions: Ten feet (10') from
any road frontage right of way/easement.
      2.   Minimum front setback for rezoning of MVB - Mountain View Boulevard
North Corridor Overlay Zone must maintain the Fifty foot (50') from Mountain
View Boulevard or U.S. Highway 64.
      3.   Minimum side setback for cluster subdivisions: Ten feet (10').
      4.   Minimum rear setback for cluster subdivisions: Fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal dwelling: Thirty-five feet (35').
      2.   Accessory building: Thirty feet (30').
   E.   Open Space: Twenty-five percent (25%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, parking or driveways.
   F.   Private Roadways and Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this title.
   G.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or grading shall not adversely
change water runoff onto adjacent lots or on public rights of way. (Ord. 2021-
01, 1-12-2021)
9-10G-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) spaces per principal dwelling unit is required.
   B.   A minimum of one (1) space per accessory living quarters is also
required.
   C.   Recreational vehicles (“RV”) may not be parked for more than one week
at a time, not to exceed four (4) weeks per year. Long term use of an RV as a
dwelling is not permitted. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-12-2021)
9-10G-6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pets: No large animals (including horses, llamas, etc.) or non-
companion animals (including livestock and farm animals such as chickens or
goats) are permitted.
   B.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Tanks: All propane tanks must be installed underground in vaults
that meet regulatory standards.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that lights
neither unreasonably disturb adjacent properties nor interfere with driver
vision. Refer to section
9-7-8 of this title for additional lighting requirements.
   D.   Vehicle Storage: See subsection
9-7-9B of this title.
   E.   Fences and Walls:
      1.   Require a permit and/or must be included on a site plan;
      2.   Shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'); and
      3.   Opaque fences and walls of chain-link and stockade fencing shall not
be installed around the perimeter of the lot. Non-opaque decorative fences of
sealed wood, painted steel, or a combination thereof are permitted anywhere
within the buildable area of the lot.
   F.   Architectural Appropriateness:
      1.   Roofs shall be made from a nonreflective material, with a minimum
twelve-inch (12") overhang unless inappropriate to the house style. Parapet
walls shall not require an overhang.
      2.   Colors, styles and materials of all structures and buildings shall
be aesthetically compatible with the Rocky Mountain environment of the village
as outlined in section
9-7-11 of this title. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-12-2021)
CHAPTER 11
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  C-1 OFFICE, RETAIL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-11A-1: Purpose
9-11A-2: Permitted Uses
9-11A-3: Conditional Uses
9-11A-4: Development Standards
9-11A-5: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-11A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the C-1 district is created is to allow the use of land
for retail, office and service commercial uses with customary accessory uses.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-11A-2: PERMITTED USES:
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 permitted uses.
Business and commercial establishments:
Any of the following:
Banking and financial services;
Business and personal services;
Commercial retail and services;
Eating and drinking establishments;
General and professional offices;
Hotels, lodges and motels.
Medical and related facilities;
Private educational facilities; and
Shopping centers.
All proposed business and commercial establishments greater than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of gross floor area must secure site plan approval from
council, with a recommendation from the commission.
Churches and related facilities;
Governmental offices and facilities.
Public utility distribution structures. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-11A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Any permitted use reasonably anticipated to create one or more of
the hazards listed (unusual traffic hazards, noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke,
vapor, vibration, glare, or industrial waste disposal problems) or any other
environmental hazard shall require a conditional use permit.
      2.   Whenever an otherwise permitted use in the C-1 district becomes a
conditional use because it may be reasonably anticipated to create unusual
traffic hazards, noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, vibration, glare, or
industrial waste disposal problems, such use shall only be approved with the
following conditions:
         a.   The use shall be operated within an enclosed structure;
         b.   Noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapors vibration, glare, or
waste shall be confined to the lot on which the use is permitted;
         c.   Outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed
from view by abutting residential districts and public rights of way; and
         d.   Compliance with appropriate county, state and federal
environmental and other regulations. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
   B.   Conditional Uses Enumerated:
Accessory building:
      1.   One per principal building.
      2.   Minimum of one hundred fifteen (115) square feet on a permanent
foundation.
Flea markets.
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
Mobile home park.
1. Minimum Lot Area: Four thousand (4,000) square feet.
2. Maximum Density: Eight (8) dwelling units per acre.
3. Minimum Front Lot Width: Forty feet (40').
4. Minimum Setbacks:
   a. Minimum front setback: Ten feet (10') from any road frontage.
   b. Minimum side setback: Eight feet (8').
   c. Minimum rear setback: Five feet (5').
   d. Minimum setback from all property lines: Fifteen feet (15').
5. Private Roadway Width: All internal private roads shall be twenty five feet
(25') in width.
6. Location Of Mobile Homes; Access: No mobile home spaces are allowed to front
on a public right of way; all access to individual mobile home spaces shall be
on internal roadways.
7. Lighting And Landscaping: A night lighting plan and landscaping plan are
required as part of the site plan.
8. Signs: Signage will be as per chapter 8 of this zoning code.
Planned unit development (PUD).
RV park.
1. Minimum Lot Size; Location: Three (3) acre minimum site located on an
arterial or collector street.
2. Maximum Density: Twenty (20) spaces per acre.
3. Separation Between Units: Minimum twenty foot (20') separation between RV
units.
4. Screening: RV park shall be screened with a six foot (6') opaque wall or
fence.
5. Sanitary Facilities: If direct wastewater hookup is not available, then one
each men/women full bathroom per ten (10) RV spaces is required to be provided.
6. Private Roadway Width: All internal private roads shall be a minimum of
twenty five feet (25') wide.
7. Lighting And Landscaping: A night lighting plan and landscaping plan are
required as part of the site plan.
8. Signs: Signage will be as per chapter 8 of this zoning code.
Recreational facilities.
Storage units. Either managed storage, self-storage, or shipping containers.
Vehicle and RV sales lots.
      1.   Outdoor sales area(s) shall be paved.
      2.   Service/maintenance/repair garage doors shall be screened from the
public right of way(s).
      3.   A dealer's license is required as per New Mexico Statutes Annotated
section 66-4.
      4.   All wrecked/dismantled vehicles shall be stored inside of a building
or completely screened so as not visible from any adjacent lot or street. No
outdoor storage is permitted. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-
20-2004; Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005)
9-11A-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: No minimum required. Lot area must comply with
minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards.
   B.   Minimum Front Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'). No minimum lot width shall
be required for lots that comply with minimum state requirements for water and
wastewater standards..
   C.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Ten feet (10') from any road frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10') or zero lot line.
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Ten
feet (10').
   D.   Minimum Principal Building Floor Area: One thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet (footprint- one thousand (1,000) square feet). No minimum required
floor area for dwelling units.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   F.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, driveway or parking area.
Village council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision
with the consideration of an approved site plan.
G.   Off Street Parking:
 
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Residential 2 spaces per unit
Hotel/motel 1 space for each sleeping unit, plus 1
           1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Retail
Office      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Bars and    1 space per 200 square feet
restaurants
 
   H.   Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this zoning code.
   I.   Drive-Up Facilities: Businesses with drive-up windows or other drive-up
facilities shall provide a stacking lane ten feet (10') in width and one
hundred feet (100') in length leading up to each drive-up window. Drive-up
windows are not allowed on commercially zoned lots adjacent to residentially
zoned lots.
   J.   Clear Sight Triangles: Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all
points of ingress/egress to the public right of way.
   K.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles (RVs), travel trailers,
watercrafts, horse trailers, or utility trailers that measure more than four
feet (4') high as measured from the ground, or more than twenty feet (20') in
length, shall not be parked or stored in open unscreened areas or on any public
right of way overnight. This provision does not apply to commercial vehicles,
equipment, and trailers utilized on a day to day basis by a business registered
with the village or village of Angel Fire vehicles, equipment or trailers, or
approved RV parks. Any other vehicle parked on any lot, unless garaged or
screened from view from any adjacent street or adjacent properties, must be
operable.
   L.    Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or parking lot shall not
adversely change water runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 4-20-2004; Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-
2005; Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-11A-5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Propane Tanks:
      1.   Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
      2.   Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The
location of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
   B.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Fences and walls:
         a.   Need a permit and/or must be on site plans.
         b.   Shall be architecturally appropriate.
         c.   Shall have the same setback from the road as the principal
building.
      2.   The use of barbed wire and/or razor ribbon is prohibited.
   C.   Hazardous Activities: Any possible hazardous activity shall require a
conditional use permit. Those include, but are not limited to, unusual traffic
hazard or any significant noise, dust, vapor, fumes, odors, smoke, vibration,
glare, explosives, or industrial waste disposal problems. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
ARTICLE B.  C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-11B-1: Purpose
9-11B-2: Permitted Uses
9-11B-3: Conditional Uses
9-11B-4: Development Standards
9-11B-5: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-11B-1: PURPOSE:
The intent for which the C-2 district is created is the use of land for
commercial purposes and restricting limited industrial purposes, with customary
accessory uses. All accessory equipment and materials shall be screened from
view. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-11B-2: PERMITTED USES:
R-2 and R-3 residential; all permitted uses.
C-1 permitted uses; all provisions.
Auto repair, major.
Service oriented businesses.
Storage (facility) units. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-11B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Any permitted use found to create one or more of the following
hazards shall require a conditional use permit: unusual traffic hazards, noise,
dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, vibration, glare, or industrial waste
disposal problems.
      2.   Whenever an otherwise permitted use in the C-2 district becomes a
conditional use because it may be reasonably anticipated to create unusual
traffic hazards, noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, vibration, glare, or
industrial waste disposal problems, such use shall only be approved with the
following conditions:
         a.   The use shall be operated within an enclosed structure;
         b.   Noise, dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapors, vibration, glare, or
waste shall be confined to the lot on which the use is permitted;
         c.   Outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed
from view by abutting residential districts and public rights of way; and
         d.   Compliance with appropriate county, state and federal
environmental and other regulations.
   B.   Conditional Uses Enumerated:
Adult use businesses, provided:
      1.   The property so used shall be a minimum of seven hundred fifty feet
(750') from the nearest church or school, daycare or youthcamp, and a minimum
of five hundred feet (500') from the nearest residence or residentially zoned
property and three hundred feet (300') from any C-1 zone. These distances shall
be measured from property line to property line, without regard to the route of
normal traffic.
      2.   The property used shall be a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000')
from any other existing adult bookstore or adult theater, measured from
property line to property line, without regard to the route of normal traffic.
      3.   Outside advertising shall be limited to one identification sign, not
to exceed twenty (20) square feet. Other advertisements, displays or
promotional material shall not be visible to the public from a pedestrian
sidewalk or walkway or from other areas, public or semipublic.
      4.   Buildings in which adult use businesses are located shall not be
painted in garish colors or any other fashion to serve the same purpose as a
sign. All windows, doors and other apertures shall be blackened or otherwise
obstructed to prevent viewing of the interior of the establishment from
without.
      5.   The purpose of these provisions is to reduce the adverse impact of
adult bookstores and adult theaters upon the village neighborhoods by:
         a.   Avoiding the concentration of uses that could cause or intensify
physical and social blight;
         b.   Improving the visual appearances of adult bookstores and adult
theaters;
         c.   Reducing the negative impacts of adult bookstores and adult
theaters upon other business uses, neighborhood property values, residential
areas and public and semipublic uses;
         d.   Ensuring that adult bookstores and adult theaters will not impede
redevelopment and neighborhood revitalization efforts; and
         e.   Avoiding the occurrence of adult uses in heavily used public
pedestrian areas.
Cannabis Establishment.
      1.   The property so used shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from the nearest church, day care, school use, residence or residentially zoned
property. These distances shall be measured from property line to property
line, without regard to the route of normal traffic. A residential use shall
only be considered if it is a separately platted main use.
      2.   Buildings in which a cannabis establishment use is located shall not
be painted in garish colors or any other fashion to serve the same purpose as a
sign.
      3.   Retail sale of cannabis products shall be limited to those hours
during which the sale of alcoholic beverages at licensed liquor establishments
for on-premises consumption is permitted under the statutes and regulations of
the State of New Mexico.
   Cannabis Manufacturing.
      1.   The property so used shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from the nearest church, day care, school use, residence or residentially zoned
property. These distances shall be measured from property line to property
line, without regard to the route of normal traffic. A residential use shall
only be considered if it is a separately platted main use.
      2.   Buildings in which a cannabis manufacturing use is located shall not
be painted in garnish colors or any other fashion to serve the same purpose as
a sign.
Flea markets.
Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
RV parks and mobile home parks as per subsection
9-11A-3B of this zoning code.
RV storage: Recreational vehicles (RVs) shall not be parked or stored in open,
unscreened areas or on any public right of way overnight except within an
approved RV park or RV storage facility.
Storage units. Either managed storage, self-storage, or shipping containers.
Vehicle and RV sales lots per subsection
9-11A-3B of this chapter.
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet C-2 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013; Ord. 2018-05,
11-13-2018; Ord. 2021-09, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-11B-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: No minimum required. Lot area must comply with
minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards.
   B.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Ten feet (10') from any road frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10') or zero lot line.
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum setback from Mountain View Boulevard and Highway 64: Ten
feet (10').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for
each building. No minimum required floor area for dwelling units.
   D.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, driveway or parking area.
Village council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision
with the consideration of an approved site plan.
   F.   Minimum Off Street Parking Requirements:
 
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Business    1 space per 200 square feet of heated floor area
Housing     Minimum of 2 spaces for each residential unit, plus 1/2 space per
            each bedroom permitted over 2
            1 space for each sleeping unit, plus 1 additional space per 500
Hotel/motel square feet of office and nonsleeping unit areas. If a business is
            contained in/on the hotel property, it shall provide off street
            parking as follows:
Retail      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Office      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Bars and    1 space per 200 square feet
restaurants
 
   G.    Private Roadways And Driveways: See section
9-7-12 of this zoning code.
   H.    Drive-Up Facilities: Businesses with drive-up windows or other drive-
up facilities shall provide a stacking lane ten feet (10') in width and one
hundred feet (100') in length leading up to each drive-up window. Drive-up
windows are not allowed on commercially zoned lots adjacent to residentially
zoned lots.
   I.   Clear Sight Triangles: Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all
points of ingress/egress to the public right of way.
   J.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles (RVs), travel trailers,
watercrafts, horse trailers, or utility trailers that measure more than four
feet (4') high as measured from the ground, or more than twenty feet (20') in
length, shall not be parked or stored in open, unscreened areas or on any
public right of way overnight. This provision does not apply to commercial
vehicles, equipment, and trailers utilized on a day to day basis by a business
registered with the village or village of Angel Fire vehicles, equipment or
trailers, or approved RV parks. Any other vehicle parked on any lot, unless
garaged or screened from view from any adjacent street or adjacent properties,
must be operable.
   K.   Surface Water Runoff: The building and/or parking lot shall not
adversely change water runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way.
   L.    Screening: All materials and equipment shall be screened from view.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-
2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-11B-5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
A. Propane Tanks:
1. Aboveground Or Underground Tanks: All propane tanks may be installed
aboveground or underground. Tanks installed aboveground shall be screened from
view by landscaping or by fencing as regulated by state statutes.
2. Location: A propane tank may not be located on or in a setback. The location
of a propane tank shall be identified on the site plan.
B. Fences And Walls:
1. Permit required; eight foot (8') maximum height.
2. All commercial fences and walls must be architecturally compatible with the
principal building(s).
3. The use of barbed wire or razor ribbon is prohibited.
C. Hazardous Activities: Any possible hazardous activity shall require a
conditional use permit. Those include, but are not limited to, unusual traffic
hazard or any significant noise, dust, vapor, fumes, odors, smoke, vibration,
glare, explosives, or industrial waste disposal problems. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
ARTICLE C.  MVB - MOUNTAIN VIEW BOULEVARD NORTH CORRIDOR OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
9-11C-1: Purpose
9-11C-2: Permitted Uses
9-11C-3: Conditional Uses
9-11C-4: Development Standards
9-11C-5: Architectural Guidelines
9-11C-6: Miscellaneous Standards
9-11C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the overlay district is created is to ensure that the
Village's principal arterial streets are developed in a consistent and orderly
manner that complements the natural setting of the Moreno Valley.
Currently, there are very few buildings in Angel Fire that are fifty (50) years
old to qualify as historical. There is not an existing historical area to
preserve. In corporate America, we are witnessing the homogenization of most
cities and towns to the point that it is difficult to distinguish one main
street from another. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-2016)
9-11C-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   All of the permitted uses of the underlying zone. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-
2016)
9-11C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All of the conditional uses of the underlying zone, with the exception of the
following:
Cannabis Establishments.
   1.   Regardless of the underlying zoning district, the property so used
shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from the nearest church, day
care, school use, or residentially zoned property. These distances shall be
measured from property line to property line, without regard to the route of
normal traffic. This use is only permitted on the west side of State Highway
434.
   2.   Buildings in which a marijuana establishment use is located shall not
be painted in garish colors or any other fashion to serve the same purpose as a
sign.
   3.   Retail sale of cannabis products shall be limited to those hours during
which the sale of alcoholic beverages at licensed liquor establishments for on-
premises consumption is permitted under the statutes and regulations of the
State of New Mexico.
Cannabis Manufacturing.
   1.   Regardless of the underlying zoning district, the property so used
shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from the nearest church, day
care, school use, or residentially zoned property. These distances shall be
measured from property line to property line, without regard to the route of
normal traffic.
   2.   Buildings in which a cannabis manufacturing use is located shall not be
painted in garish colors or any other fashion to serve the same purpose as a
sign. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2024-04,
12-24-2024)
9-11C-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Area Covered By Overlay Zone: All lots, tracts, and parcels that share
a common boundary with Mountain View Boulevard or with U.S. Highway 64 shall be
included in this overlay zone excluding R-1 Single Family, O-3 Greenbelts and
O-4 Golf Course and Recreation areas.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   C.   Minimum Front Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'). No minimum lot width shall
be required for lots that comply with minimum state requirements for water and
wastewater standards.
   D.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Fifty feet (50') from Mountain View Boulevard
or U.S. Highway 64.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
   E.   Maximum Building Height: Forty feet (40'); chimneys, forty five feet
(45').
   F.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building or structure. Village council may
approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision with the
consideration of an approved site plan.
   G.   Site Plan Approval Required: All additions and/or new commercial and
residential projects must secure site plan approval from Council, with a
recommendation from the commission prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   H.   Parking: The following requirements are in addition to the parking
requirements in section
9-7-4 of this title:
      1.   Employee Parking: Must show spaces or a plan for employee parking on
site plan prior to approval.
   I.   Subdivision: Any subdivision of any lot, tract, or parcel must be
approved by Council with a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   J.   Density: Any multi-unit residential development that provides a minimum
of ten (10) percent of the proposed dwelling units for households earning up to
three-hundred (300) percent of are median income (AMI), as defined by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, may be entitled to a maximum
density allowance of thirty (30) units per acre. Village council may consider
these requests with a recommendation from the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-
2024; Ord. 2025-01, 4-8-2025)
9-11C-5: ARCHITECTURAL GUIDELINES:
Generally accepted architectural styles shall be compatible with Angel Fire
alpine environment and may include alpine mountain or territorial/Spanish
revival styles.
These are characterized by deep eaves, heavy timber, rough finishes of wood and
stone, steeply pitched roofs with prominent and varied roof planes. Parapet
walls with earth tone stucco finishes, deep eaves, exposed wood window lintels,
rounded corners on walls, doors and windows, and multiple facades stepped up
and set back with each building level.
   A.   Mass Limitation: All additions and/or new commercial and residential
construction that exceeds a twenty thousand (20,000) square foot footprint
shall be designed in such a way that the massing appears to the viewer as two
(2) or more building blocks.
   B.   Pedestrian Features: Buildings with facades that are greater than one
hundred feet (100') in width shall be visually broken up with mature
landscaping (see section
9-7-5 of this title), portals, covered walkways, courtyards or other design
features that are pedestrian friendly. Facades shall incorporate at least one
(1) or a combination of the following features along a minimum of fifty percent
(50%) of the length of the primary facade:
      1.   Display windows where the overall glass height is a minimum of forty
eight inches (48"), provided the sill height does not exceed forty five inches
(45") above the finished floor and they shall not be mirrored or opaque along
the ground floor.
      2.   Doors/entrances.
      3.   Portals, arcades, canopies, trellises, or awnings associated with
windows or other three-dimensional elements that provide shade and/or weather
protection.
      4.   Raised planters located adjacent to the facade, with living,
vegetative materials such as ornamental grasses, vines, spreading shrubs,
flowers, or trees.
      5.   Pedestrian sidewalks, a minimum of eight feet (8') in width, shall
be provided along the entire length of major facades containing building
entrances.
   C.   Building Facades: In order to avoid blank building facades, facades
shall incorporate at least one (1) of the following features:
      1.   Wall plane projections or recesses shall be at least two feet (2')
in depth, occurring at least every one hundred feet (100').
      2.   A vertical change in color, texture, or material occurring every
fifty (50) linear feet.
      3.   A change in visible roof plane or parapet height (in the case of
pueblo/Spanish revival style) for every one hundred feet (100') in length.
   D.   Color:
      1.   Stucco and faux rocks of earth tone shades of brown, clay or coral
with wood stained trim or colored accents.
      2.   Wood/faux wood sided buildings using natural stains or earth tone
colors.
      3.   The painting of any part of buildings with bold patterns, checks,
and using buildings as signs is prohibited.
   E.   Rooflines:
      1.   A minimum twelve inch (12") overhang is required unless parapet
walls are utilized in the design.
      2.   The use of dormer windows is encouraged. Parapet walls shall conceal
the roofline completely.
      3.   Parapet roof downslopes shall face away from Mountain View Boulevard
and U.S. Highway 64.
      4.   Entryways shall be designed to shed water and snow away from
entries.
      5.   For roof materials, see subsection
9-7-11E of this title.
   F.   Doors And Windows: The combined door and window area in any publicly
visible facade shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total area of the
facade, except for the use of large display windows located under the portals/
walkways of commercial buildings and applications of passive solar features.
   G.   Garage Doors And Drive-Through Facilities: Unscreened garage doors,
automobile service bays and drive-through facilities shall not be located
facing Mountain View Boulevard.
   H.   Building Service Areas: Areas for loading and unloading, trash
collection and disposal, and utility services must be located away from and
screened from view from Mountain View Boulevard or U.S. Highway 64.
   I.   Mechanical Design: All heating/cooling and other mechanical equipment
mounted on the building must be screened from view by an architectural element
of the building. Overhead wiring is prohibited.
   J.   Signage:
      1.   Only backlit signs are permitted as lighted attached signage.
Monument signs may be downlighted as long as there is no light spillage to
adjacent sites.
      2.   Canopy signage displaying company logos are permitted and will not
be counted as part of the permitted signage, provided there is no text. Text on
canopies will be calculated as part of the permitted freestanding signage.
      3.   Sign frames and posts shall be made of heavy timber. Other materials
such as metal or concrete frames shall be stuccoed or have a wood veneer.
      4.   All other provisions of chapter 8 of this title shall apply.
   K.   Solar Applications: Solar and other energy collecting and conserving
features are strongly encouraged to be incorporated into the structure.
      1.   Solar features shall be hidden from public view by a screening
device or disguise. Screening methods include: benches, berms, landscaping or
buildings to block from public view, and ground mounted apparatus. Reflected
glare on nearby buildings, streets or pedestrian areas shall be avoided.
      2.   Solar wind turbines are permitted provided they do not exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height measured from the ground.
   L.   Vehicular Access: Vehicular access to the site shall be from streets
other than Mountain View Boulevard wherever possible. These streets shall be
perpendicular to and connected to Mountain View Boulevard. However, if it is
determined that vehicular access will be from Mountain View Boulevard, then
ingress/egress shall be limited to two (2) driveways and will include an
acceleration and deceleration lane as per NMDOT specifications.
   M.   Landscape/Screening: Landscape screening shall be provided where
nonresidential development abuts residential zoning and along Mountain View
Boulevard within the ten foot (10') landscape setback.
      1.   Landscape Strip: A landscape strip at least ten feet (10') in width
shall be provided along the residential/nonresidential zone.
      2.   Buffer Landscaping: The buffer landscaping should consist of a mix
of evergreen trees and deciduous trees. It can also be berming with shrubs and
plants or mulch and moss rocks.
      3.   Wall Or Fence Required: Where parking or vehicle circulation areas
are adjacent to the landscaping strip, a minimum six foot (6') high opaque wall
or fence shall also be required to visually screen the parking or circulation
area from the adjacent residential zone; chain-link fence with slats shall not
constitute acceptable screening.
      4.   Provisions: All other provisions of section
9-7-5 of this title apply.
   N.   Lighting: The following requirements are in addition to the
requirements in section
9-7-8 of this title:
      1.   The maximum height of a light pole in commercial development that
falls within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zone shall be sixteen
feet (16') measured from the finished grade to the top of the pole.
      2.   All other provisions of section
9-7-8 of this title apply. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-2016)
9-11C-6: MISCELLANEOUS STANDARDS:
   A.   All of the miscellaneous standards of the underlying zone shall apply.
   B.   1. Screening Of Recreational/Commercial Vehicles And Equipment: All
recreational vehicles as well as all commercial vehicles, that are over one (1)
ton, used in support of a business or any other commercial equipment parked on
any lot within the MVB Overlay District shall be screened from public view and
all adjacent rights-of-way.
      2.   For Sale/Abandoned: Any vehicle with a for sale sign must belong to
the property owner. Any vehicle left unmoved for seventy two (72) hours will be
considered abandoned.
      3.   Landscaping: The use of large caliper conifer trees is encouraged
for this screening. Live vegetation used for screening from Mountain View
Boulevard shall be exempted from the building permit. See section
9-7-5 of this title for additional landscaping provisions. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-12-
2016)
ARTICLE D.  HC HEAVY COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-11D-1: Purpose
9-11D-2: Permitted Uses
9-11D-3: Conditional Uses
9-11D-4: Development Standards
9-11D-5: Architectural Standards
9-11D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for which the HC district is created is to ensure that the village
can readily accommodate land uses associated with fabrication, assembly,
construction oriented businesses and support services that are necessary to
complement and expand the economy of the village and in a manner consistent
with the resort character of the village. Other retail sales, commodities, and
professional services not listed below are prohibited land uses within this
district. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010)
9-11D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Assembly and bottling plants, provided yard area is screened from adjacent
properties with a solid fence construction a minimum of eight feet (8') high.
Automobile, boat, motorcycle and recreational vehicle sales and service.
Contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
Exterior storage of goods and materials provided said goods and materials are
screened from adjacent properties and all adjacent rights of way with a solid
fence construction a minimum of eight feet (8') high.
Feed, grain and related sales and storage.
Firewood sale, splitting and storage, provided yard area is screened from
adjacent properties with a solid fence construction a minimum of six feet (6')
high.
Freight houses and truck terminals.
Fuel storage facilities.
Heavy equipment sales or service or repair, provided yard area is screened from
adjacent properties with a solid fence construction a minimum of eight feet
(8') high.
Metal work and machine shops, provided yard area is screened from adjacent
properties with a solid fence construction a minimum of eight feet (8') high.
Warehousing, storage, distribution of bulk goods.
Welding shops for repair of vehicles and equipment, provided yard area is
screened from adjacent properties with a solid fence construction a minimum of
six feet (6') high.
Workforce apartments integrated within the commercial structure provided said
dwellings do not occupy more than twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area.
(Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010)
9-11D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Any permitted use found to create one or more of the following hazards shall
require a conditional use permit: unusual traffic hazard, noise, dust, fumes,
odor, smoke, vapor, vibration, glare, or industrial waste disposal problems.
Auto body and paint shop, provided all structures are one hundred feet (100')
away from any adjacent residential district boundary.
Kennels, commercial.
Recycling collection and separating and storage facilities.
Stables, commercial.
Wireless telecommunication towers, see section 9-11B-3 of this chapter.
Wrecker service. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010; amd. Ord. 2018-05, 11-13-2018; Ord.
2021-09, 10-12-2021)
9-11D-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet. Lots that were
legally platted into sizes less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet before
December 31, 1999, are considered developable, nonconforming lots.
   B.   Minimum Lot Frontage: One hundred feet (100'); forty feet (40') on a
cul-de-sac.
   C.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum front setback: Twenty feet (20') from any road frontage.
      2.   Minimum side setback: Twenty feet (20').
      3.   Minimum rear setback: Twenty feet (20').
   D.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Minimum Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   One space per four hundred (400) square feet of interior office/
retail/display space; and
      2.   One space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of heated shop/plant
space or one space per employee on the shift with the maximum number of
employees; whichever is greater. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010)
9-11D-5: ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS:
Generally accepted architectural styles shall be compatible with Angel Fire
alpine environment and may include alpine mountain style and pueblo/Spanish
revival style or a combination of these two.
   A.   Use Of Metal Buildings: Metal siding is permitted on all sides that do
not face a public right of way, provided the total square footage of the
building does not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet. Permitted colors
are limited to nonreflective shades of green and brown. All other colors or
buildings larger than five thousand (5,000) square feet will require a
conditional use permit as defined in chapter 5 of this title. In either case of
permitted or CUP application, a physical sample of the siding must be submitted
with the building permit application or the CUP application.
   B.   Roofline: A minimum one to twelve (1:12) pitch and a minimum six inch
(6") overhang are required unless parapet walls are utilized in the design. For
roof materials, see subsection
9-7-11E of this title.
   C.   Building Service Areas: Areas for loading and unloading, trash
collection and disposal, and utility services must be located away from and
screened from view from all public rights of way. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 12
O DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  O-1 CORE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12A-1: Purpose
9-12A-2: Permitted Uses
9-12A-3: Conditional Uses
9-12A-4: Development Standards
9-12A-5: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-12A-1: PURPOSE:
The O-1 district is created to provide areas for a compact, pedestrian
oriented, high density center near the ski area with a mix of employment,
business, retail and multi-family uses. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12A-2: PERMITTED USES:
All R-3 permitted uses and all C-1 provisions (except as noted in the
development standards). (Ord. 2015-01, 11-17-2015)
9-12A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-12A-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: No minimum required. Lot area must comply with
minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards.
   B.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum front setback: Five feet (5') from any road frontage.
         b.   Maximum front setback: Twenty feet (20') from any road frontage.
      2.   Minimum Side Setback: Eight feet (8') or zero lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Setback: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for
each building; minimum footprint is one thousand (1,000) square feet. No
minimum required floor area for dwelling units.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory buildings allowed.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: Forty five feet (45').
   F.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, driveway or parking area.
Village council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision
with the consideration of an approved site plan.
   G.   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Requirements:
 
Type Of Use  Parking Space Required
Business     1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
             1 space for each sleeping unit, plus 1 additional space per 500
Hotel/motel  square feet of office and nonsleeping unit areas. If a business is
             contained in/on the hotel property, it shall provide off street
             parking as follows:
 Bars and    1 space per 200 square feet
 restaurants
 Office      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
 Retail      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Housing      1 space per dwelling unit
 
      2.   Variances: Parking requirements may be varied in the O-1 district if
a site plan is approved by the council with commission recommendation on
construction projects of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more. Variation
may include locating the required parking to be at the perimeter of the
development.
   H.   Drive-Up Facilities: Businesses with drive-up windows or other drive-up
facilities shall provide a stacking lane ten feet (10') in width and one
hundred feet (100') in length leading up to each drive-up window. Drive-up
windows are not allowed on commercially zoned lots adjacent to residentially
zoned lots.
   I.   Clear Sight Triangles: Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all
points of ingress/egress to the public right of way.
   J.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles (RVs) shall not be parked
in open, unscreened areas or on any public right of way overnight except within
an approved RV park.
   K.   Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   Private roadways and driveways shall not be constructed so as to
drain onto the street.
      2.   The building and/or parking lot shall not adversely change water
runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way.
   L.    Minimum Lot Width: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-
2024)
9-12A-5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Landscaping: See section
9-7-5 of this title.
   B.   Propane Tanks: See section
9-7-7 of this title.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: See section
9-7-8 of this title.
   D.   Fences And Walls: See section
9-7-10 of this title.
   E.   Architectural Appropriateness: See section
9-7-11 of this title.
   F.   Hazardous Activities: No hazardous activity shall be permitted. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE B.  O-2 MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12B-1: Purpose
9-12B-2: Permitted Uses
9-12B-3: Conditional Uses
9-12B-4: Development Standards
9-12B-5: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-12B-1: PURPOSE:
The O-2 district is created to provide areas for a compact, pedestrian
oriented, high density center with a mix of employment, business, retail and
multi-family uses. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12B-2: PERMITTED USES:
All R-3 permitted uses and all C-1 provisions (except as noted in the
development standards).
Planned unit development (PUD).
Any permitted uses shall be acceptable so long as the use does not create
unusual traffic hazard or any significant noise, dust, vapor, fumes, odors,
smoke, vibration, glare, or industrial waste disposal problems. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 11-17-2015)
9-12B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-12B-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: No minimum required. Lot area must comply with
minimum state requirements for water and wastewater standards.
   B.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum front setback: Five feet (5') from any frontage.
         b.   Maximum front setback: Twenty feet (20') from any frontage.
      2.   Minimum Side Setback: Ten feet (10') or zero lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Setback: Fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Minimum Setback From Mountain View Boulevard: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet for
each building; minimum footprint is one thousand (1,000) square feet. No
minimum required floor area for dwelling units.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: No accessory buildings allowed.
   E.   Maximum Building Height: Forty-five feet (45').
   F.   Open Space: Ten percent (10%) of the lot area shall be open,
unencumbered, and free of any building, structure, driveway, or parking area.
Village council may approve designated areas and adjustments to this provision
with the consideration of an approved site plan.
   G.   Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Requirements:
 
Type Of Use   Parking Space Required
Business      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
              1 space for each sleeping unit, plus 1 additional space per 500
Hotel/motel   square feet of office and nonsleeping unit areas. If a business
              is contained in/on the hotel property, it shall provide off
              street parking as follows:
 Bars and    1 space per 200 square feet
  restaurants
 Office      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
 Retail      1 space per 400 square feet of heated floor area
Housing       1 space per dwelling unit
 
      2.   Variances: Parking requirements may be varied in the O-2 district if
a site plan is approved by the council with commission recommendation on
construction projects of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more. Variation
may include locating the required parking to be at the perimeter of the
development.
   H.   Drive-Up Facilities: Businesses with drive-up windows or other drive-up
facilities shall provide a stacking lane ten feet (10') in width and one
hundred feet (100') in length leading up to each drive-up window.
   I.   Clear Sight Triangles: Clear sight triangles shall be maintained at all
points of ingress/egress to the public right of way.
   J.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles (RVs) shall not be parked
in open, unscreened areas or on any public right of way overnight except within
an approved RV park.
   K.   Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   Private roadways and driveways shall not be constructed so as to
drain onto the street.
      2.   The building and/or parking lot shall not adversely change water
runoff onto adjacent lots or onto public rights of way.
   L.   Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres
or larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
   M.   Minimum Lot Width: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2005-01, 1-20-2005; Ord. 2024-01, 12-24-2024; Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-
2024)
9-12B-5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Landscaping: See section
9-7-5 of this title.
   B.   Propane Tanks: See section
9-7-7 of this title.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: See section
9-7-8 of this title.
   D.   Fences And Walls: See section
9-7-10 of this title.
   E.   Architectural Appropriateness: See section
9-7-11 of this title.
   F.   Hazardous Activities: No hazardous activity shall be permitted. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002)
ARTICLE C.  O-3 GREENBELTS AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12C-1: Purpose
9-12C-2: Permitted Uses
9-12C-3: Conditional Uses
9-12C-1: PURPOSE:
The O-3 district is created to provide open areas, common benefit structures,
and park areas as well as utility and ingress/egress easements. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002)
9-12C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Outdoor recreational uses, with motorized vehicle usage limited to snowmobiles
and ATVs. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Buildings associated with the recreational use.
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
ARTICLE D.  O-4 GOLF COURSE AND RECREATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12D-1: Purpose
9-12D-2: Areas Included
9-12D-3: Permitted Uses
9-12D-4: Conditional Uses
9-12D-5: On Premises Signs
9-12D-1: PURPOSE:
The O-4 District is created to provide areas for recreational use other than
alpine skiing. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12D-2: AREAS INCLUDED:
Angel Fire Resort Fairgrounds.
Angel Fire Resort Golf Course.
Angel Fire Resort Membership RV Park and Stables.
Angel Fire Resort Monte Verde Lake.
Angel Fire Resort Olympic Park.
Village of Angel Fire Allen Fields Sports Facility. (Ord. 2019-04, 4-16-2019)
9-12D-3: PERMITTED USES:
Outdoor recreational uses and associated activities. (Ord. 2019-04, 4-16-2019)
9-12D-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Buildings associated with recreation and outdoor activity, including shipping
containers that are sided with wood, screened from view with trees or fences.
Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2019-04, 4-16-2019;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-12D-5: ON PREMISES SIGNS:
At each of the areas described in section
9-12D-2 of this article, the following freestanding monument signage shall be
permitted:
   A.   Directional signs: A maximum of sixteen (16) square feet of face area,
not to exceed a height of six feet (6').
   B.   Facility signs: A maximum of forty (40) square feet of face area, not
to exceed a height of nine feet (9'). (Ord. 2012-01, 1-10-2012)
   C.   Freestanding entry sign: One freestanding sign per facility listed in
section
9-12D-2 of this article with a maximum of seventy five (75) square feet of sign
face area of which thirty three percent (33%) must be dedicated to identifying
the area. Said sign shall not be higher than fifteen feet (15') from the ground
and shall be designed and constructed to withstand a ninety five (95) mile per
hour wind. Signs shall have all supports, frames and posts painted or otherwise
finished. (Ord. 2013-03, 5-14-2013)
ARTICLE E.  O-5 SKI AREA, RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12E-1: Purpose
9-12E-2: Permitted Uses
9-12E-3: Conditional Uses
9-12E-4: Landscaping
9-12E-5: Public Buildings
9-12E-6: Wind Energy Facilities
9-12E-1: PURPOSE:
The ski area/recreational district is primarily for outdoor recreational use,
including support facilities and associated commercial structures. Nonpublic
structures that are not subject to state or federal regulation will be
regulated by the village. All buildings for public use will conform to O-
1 district regulations and the building and zoning codes. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002; amd. 2003 Code)
9-12E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and buildings generally associated with a recreation or outdoor
activity.
On premises signs as defined in section
9-12D-5 of this chapter.
Recreation or outdoor uses. Including summer recreation; hiking, mountain
biking, zip lines, festivals and concerts and similar activities. (Ord. 2002-
02, 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2012-01, 1-10-2012; Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
9-12E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   General Provisions: Any of the permitted uses listed in section 9-12E-
2 of this article shall be conditional if the use does create unusual traffic
hazard or any significant noise, dust, vapor, fumes, odors, smoke, vibration,
glare, or industrial waste disposal problems. If one of these conditions
exists, a conditional use permit shall be required.
   B.   Conditional Uses Enumerated:
   Grazing: Granted in one year increments, in areas of forty (40) acres or
larger. This is to be reviewed annually for continuation of permit based on
contiguous land uses and impact on natural vegetation.
   Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small nonilluminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-12E-4: LANDSCAPING:
Retail areas within this zone shall be landscaped as regulated by section
9-7-5 of this title. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12E-5: PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
All public buildings and surrounding areas shall conform to the O-1 district
requirements. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-12E-6: WIND ENERGY FACILITIES:
The construction and operation of wind energy facilities in the village,
subject to reasonable conditions that will protect the public health, safety
and welfare.
   A.   Definitions:
    FACILITY OWNER: The entity or entities having an equity interest in the
wind energy facility, including their respective successors and assigns.
   HUB HEIGHT: The distance measured from the surface of the tower foundation
to the height of the wind turbine hub, to which the blade is attached.
   OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and
maintenance of the wind energy facility.
   TURBINE HEIGHT: The distance measured from the surface of the tower
foundation to the highest point of the turbine rotor plane.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY: An electric generating facility, whose main purpose is
to supply electricity, consisting of one or more wind turbines and other
accessory structures and buildings, including substations, meteorological
towers, electrical infrastructure, transmission lines and other appurtenant
structures and facilities.
   WIND FIN: A wind energy conversion system that uses small scale (less than
10 kW) devices, generally mounted on the ground, rather than on tall towers,
and uses a vertical method to turn the fins, rather than being mounted on tall
towers or using large scale (greater than 10 kW) horizontal propeller type
turbines.
   WIND TURBINE: A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy into
electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and includes the
nacelle, rotor, tower, and pad transformer, if any.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   This section applies to all wind energy facilities proposed to be
constructed after the effective date hereof, except that this section is not
intended to apply to stand alone wind turbines constructed primarily for
residential or farm use.
      2.   Wind energy facilities constructed prior to the effective date
hereof shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section; provided
that any physical modification to an existing wind energy facility that
materially alters the size, type and number of wind turbines or other equipment
shall require a permit under this section.
   C.   Permitted Use: A wind energy facility shall be considered a conditional
use in the O-5 district.
   D.   Permit Requirement:
      1.   No wind energy facility, or addition of a wind turbine to an
existing wind energy facility, shall be constructed or located within Angel
Fire unless a permit has been issued to the facility owner or operator
approving construction of the facility under this title.
      2.   Any physical modification to an existing and permitted wind energy
facility that materially alters the size, type and number of wind turbines or
other equipment shall require a permit modification under this section. Like
kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
   E.   Permit Application:
      1.   The permit application shall demonstrate that the proposed wind
energy facility will comply with this section.
      2.   Among other things, the application shall contain the following:
         a.   A narrative describing the proposed wind energy facility,
including an overview of the project; the project location; the approximate
generating capacity of the wind energy facility; the approximate number,
representative types and height or range of heights of wind turbines to be
constructed, including their generating capacity, dimensions and respective
manufacturers, and a description of ancillary facilities.
         b.   An affidavit or similar evidence of agreement between the
property owner and the facility owner or operator demonstrating that the
facility owner or operator has the permission of the property owner to apply
for necessary permits for construction and operation of the wind energy
facility.
         c.   Identification of the properties on which the proposed wind
energy facility will be located, and the properties adjacent to where the wind
energy facility will be located.
         d.   A site plan showing the planned location of each wind turbine,
property lines, setback lines, access road and turnout locations, substation
(s), electrical cabling from the wind energy facility to the substation(s),
ancillary equipment, buildings, and structures, including permanent
meteorological towers, associated transmission lines, and layout of all
structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback.
         e.   Documents related to decommissioning.
         f.   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications and approvals as
may be reasonably requested by the village to ensure compliance with this
section.
   F.   Design And Installation:
      1.   Design Safety Certification: The design of the wind energy facility
shall conform to applicable industry standards, including those of the American
National Standards Institute. The applicant shall submit certificates of design
compliance obtained by the equipment manufacturers from Underwriters
Laboratories, Det Norske Veritas, Germanishcer Lloyd Wind Energies, or other
similar certifying organizations.
      2.   Uniform Construction Code: To the extent applicable, the wind energy
facility shall comply with the New Mexico building codes.
      3.   Controls And Brakes: All wind energy facilities shall be equipped
with a redundant braking system. This includes both aerodynamic overspeed
controls (including variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and
mechanical brakes. Mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail safe mode.
Stall regulation shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for
overspeed protection.
      4.   Electrical Components: All electrical components of the wind energy
facility shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state and national
codes, and relevant and applicable international standards.
      5.   Visual Appearance; Power Lines:
         a.   Wind turbines shall be a nonobtrusive color such as forest green
or dark blue.
         b.   Wind energy facilities shall not be artificially lighted, except
to the extent required by the federal aviation administration or other
applicable authority that regulates air safety.
         c.   Wind turbines shall not display advertising, except for
reasonable identification of the turbine manufacturer, facility owner and
operator, not to exceed ten (10) square feet.
         d.   On site transmission and power lines between wind turbines shall,
to the maximum extent practicable, be placed underground.
      6.   Warnings:
         a.   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed
at the base of all pad mounted transformers and substations.
         b.   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, reflectors,
or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guywires and along guywires up
to a height of ten feet (10') from the ground.
      7.   Climb Prevention/Locks:
         a.   Wind turbines shall not be climbable up to fifteen feet (15')
above ground surface.
         b.   All access doors to wind turbines and electrical equipment shall
be locked or fenced, as appropriate, to prevent entry by nonauthorized persons.
   G.   Setbacks:
      1.   Occupied Buildings:
         a.   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied
building a distance not less than the normal setback requirements for that
zoning classification or 1.1 times the turbine height, whichever is greater.
The setback distance shall be measured from the center of the wind turbine base
to the nearest point on the foundation of the occupied building.
         b.   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied
building located on a nonparticipating landowner's property a distance of not
less than five (5) times the hub height, as measured from the center of the
wind turbine base to the nearest point on the foundation of the occupied
building.
      2.   Property Lines: All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest
property line a distance of not less than the normal setback requirements for
that zoning classification or 1.1 times the turbine height, whichever is
greater. The setback distance shall be measured from the center of the wind
turbine base to the nearest property line.
      3.   Public Roads: All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest
public road a distance of not less than 1.1 times the turbine height, as
measured from the right of way line of the nearest public road to the center of
the wind turbine base.
   H.   Use Of Public Roads:
      1.   The applicant shall identify all state and local public roads to be
used within the village to transport equipment and parts for construction,
operation or maintenance of the wind energy facility.
      2.   The village's engineer or a qualified third party engineer hired by
the village and paid for by the applicant, shall document road conditions prior
to construction. The engineer shall document road conditions again thirty (30)
days after construction is complete or as weather permits.
      3.   The village may bond the road in compliance with state regulations.
      4.   Any road damage caused by the applicant or its contractors shall be
promptly repaired at the applicant's expense.
      5.   The applicant shall demonstrate that it has appropriate financial
assurance to ensure the prompt repair of damaged roads.
   I.   Local Emergency Services:
      1.   The applicant shall provide a copy of the project summary and site
plan to local emergency services, including paid or volunteer fire department
(s).
      2.   Upon request, the applicant shall cooperate with emergency services
to develop and coordinate implementation of an emergency response plan for the
wind energy facility.
   J.   Noise And Shadow Flicker:
      1.   Audible sound from a wind energy facility shall not exceed fifty
(50) dBA, as measured at the exterior of any occupied building on a
nonparticipating landowner's property. Methods for measuring and reporting
acoustic emissions from wind turbines and the wind energy facility shall be
equal to or exceed the minimum standards for precision described in AWEA
standard 2.1 - 1989 titled "Procedures For The Measurement And Reporting Of
Acoustic Emissions From Wind Turbine Generation Systems Volume I: First Tier".
      2.   The facility owner and operator shall make reasonable efforts to
minimize shadow flicker to any occupied building on a nonparticipating
landowner's property.
   K.   Waiver Of Noise And Shadow Flicker Provisions:
      1.   Property owners may waive the noise and shadow flicker provisions of
this section by signing a waiver of their rights.
      2.   The written waiver shall notify the property owner(s) of the sound
or flicker limits in this title, describe the impact on the property owner(s),
and state that the consent is granted for the wind energy facility to not
comply with the sound or flicker limits in this title.
      3.   Any such waiver shall be recorded in the office of the Colfax County
clerk. The waiver shall describe the properties benefited and burdened, and
advise all subsequent purchasers of the burdened property that the waiver of
sound or flicker limits shall run with the land and may forever burden the
subject property.
   L.   Signal Interference: The applicant shall make reasonable efforts to
avoid any disruption or loss of radio, telephone, television or similar
signals, and shall mitigate any harm caused by the wind energy facility.
   M.   Liability Insurance: There shall be maintained a current general
liability policy covering bodily injury and property damage with limits of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. Certificates shall be made available
to the village upon request.
   N.   Decommissioning:
      1.   The facility owner and operator shall, at its expense, complete
decommissioning of the wind energy facility, or individual wind turbines,
within twelve (12) months after the end of the useful life of the facility or
individual wind turbines. The wind energy facility or individual wind turbines
will presume to be at the end of its useful life if no electricity is generated
for a continuous period of twelve (12) months.
      2.   Decommissioning shall include removal of wind turbines, buildings,
cabling, electrical components, roads, foundations to a depth of thirty six
inches (36"), and any other associated facilities.
      3.   Disturbed earth shall be graded and reseeded, unless the landowner
requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas not be
restored.
      4.   An independent and certified professional engineer shall be retained
to estimate the total cost of decommissioning ("decommissioning costs") without
regard to salvage value of the equipment, and the cost of decommissioning net
salvage value of the equipment ("net decommissioning costs"). Said estimates
shall be submitted to the village after the first year of operation and every
fifth year thereafter.
      5.   The facility owner or operator shall post and maintain
decommissioning funds in an amount equal to net decommissioning costs; provided
that at no point shall decommissioning funds be less than twenty five percent
(25%) of decommissioning costs. The decommissioning funds shall be posted and
maintained with a bonding company or federal or commonwealth chartered lending
institution chosen by the facility owner or operator and participating
landowner posting the financial security, provided that the bonding company or
lending institution is authorized to conduct such business within the
commonwealth and is approved by the village.
      6.   Decommissioning funds may be in the form of a performance bond,
surety bond, letter of credit, corporate guarantee or other form of financial
assurance as may be acceptable to the village.
      7.   If the facility owner or operator fails to complete decommissioning
within the period prescribed by subsection N1 of this section, then the
landowner shall have six (6) months to complete decommissioning.
      8.   If neither the facility owner or operator, nor the landowner
complete decommissioning within the periods prescribed by subsections N1 and N7
of this section, then the village may take such measures as necessary to
complete decommissioning.
      9.   The escrow agent shall release the decommissioning funds when the
facility owner or operator has demonstrated and the municipality concurs that
decommissioning has been satisfactorily completed, or upon written approval of
the municipality in order to implement the decommissioning plan.
   O.   Public Inquiries And Complaints:
      1.   The facility owner and operator shall maintain a phone number and
identify a responsible person for the public to contact with inquiries and
complaints throughout the life of the project.
      2.   The facility owner and operator shall make reasonable efforts to
respond to the public's inquiries and complaints. (Ord. 2006-15, 12-12-2006)
ARTICLE F.  O-6 GIRL SCOUT RANCH, RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-12F-1: Purpose
9-12F-2: Permitted Uses
9-12F-3: Conditional Uses
9-12F-4: Landscaping
9-12F-5: Public Buildings
9-12F-1: PURPOSE:
The Girl Scout Ranch, Recreational District is primarily for outdoor
recreational use, including support facilities and associated commercial
structures. Nonpublic structures that are not subject to State or Federal
regulation will be regulated by the Village. All buildings for public use will
conform to O-1 District regulations and the Building and Zoning Codes. (Ord.
2019-08, 7-30-2019)
9-12F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses and buildings generally associated with a recreation or outdoor
activity.
Lodging.
On premises signs as defined in section
9-12D-5 of this chapter.
Recreation or outdoor uses. Including summer recreation; hiking, mountain
biking, zip lines, festivals and concerts and similar activities. (Ord. 2019-
08, 7-30-2019)
9-12F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   General Provisions: Any of the permitted uses listed in section
9-12F-2 of this article shall be conditional if the use does create unusual
traffic hazard or any significant noise, dust, vapor, fumes, odors, smoke,
vibration, glare, or industrial waste disposal problems. If one of these
conditions exists, a conditional use permit shall be required.
   B.   Wireless telecommunication towers:
      1.   Area Preservation: Preferred site location and development of
wireless telecommunication facilities shall preserve the existing character of
the surrounding land uses and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of
the area. Where technically feasible, new facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type. The order of preference for new facilities is as
follows from most preferred to least preferred:
         a.   Colocation on an existing tower;
         b.   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings, light
poles, and utility poles;
         c.   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         d.   Colocated with water tower or other public facilities;
         e.   New towers/facilities under fifty feet (50') in height;
         f.   New towers/facilities under one hundred feet (100') in height;
and
         g.   New towers/facilities over one hundred feet (100') in height.
      2.   Preferred Type And Location: New facilities shall use the most
preferred facility type and locations where technically feasible, even if it
results in an increase in the number of facilities or at a higher cost. A
lesser preferred facility type may be permitted only if the applicant presents
substantial evidence to show that it will have a lesser visual impact or is
more technically necessary than the use of more preferred facilities.
      3.   Disfavored Facilities:
         a.   Any site within a visual corridor as identified in the village
master plan;
         b.   Sites on ridgelines exposed to view from Mountain View Boulevard
or Highway 64; and
         c.   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas.
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: New facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') in height.
         b.   Setback: The setback for towers is one hundred five percent
(105%) of the tower height from all property lines; or setback may be reduced
if there is a dedicated "fall zone" easement on adjacent properties; or setback
may be thirty percent (30%) of tower height if the registered engineer who
designed the tower can prove that in case of failure, the tower would be
contained on site. Guys and accessory buildings must meet O-1 setbacks.
         c.   Colors And Materials: Towers and attached antennas must be
painted or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. All
associated structures must be painted or otherwise match the same color as the
tower.
         d.   Fencing: The tower and equipment building shall be fenced unless
the tower is a flagpole, utility pole, or a camouflaged facility.
         e.   Lighting: Lighting on any tower is prohibited unless required by
the federal aviation administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detecting lighting may be used around equipment or
accessory structures for security purposes.
         f.   Signs: Signage is limited to small non-illuminated identification
and warning signs.
      5.   Terms Of Permit: Renewal of a conditional use permit shall be based
on the compliance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 2019-08, 7-30-2019;
amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-24-2024)
9-12F-4: LANDSCAPING:
Retail areas within this zone shall be landscaped as regulated by section
9-7-5 of this title. (Ord. 2019-08, 7-30-2019)
9-12F-5: PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
All public buildings and surrounding areas shall conform to the O-1 District
requirements. (Ord. 2019-08, 7-30-2019)
CHAPTER 13
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT AREAS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Purpose
9-13-2: Special Development Permit Required
9-13-3: Excessive Slope
9-13-4: High Water Table Areas
9-13-5: Ridge Line And View Shed Areas
9-13-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Certain areas within the Village are deemed special development areas.
All development within these areas shall conform to the general requirements of
this title and the additional requirements set forth in this chapter. Examples
of special development areas include steep slopes, areas of high water table,
ridge lines, and specified view sheds.
   B.   Prior to annexation into the Village, many areas of the Angel Fire
Resort were platted into narrow lots on steep slopes in excess of twenty
percent (20%). These lots present development problems relative to access,
drainage, erosion and construction in general. It is the purpose of this
chapter to allow the development of those existing lots within a public safety
and welfare context. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-13-2: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any project or portion of a project located in an area designated as a special
development area requires a special development permit in addition to other
applicable permits and approvals. A special development permit may be approved,
denied, or approved with conditions as deemed appropriate. The Village may
require additional construction documents to be prepared by a registered design
professional. If the application for a special development permit applies to
only one residential lot, the permit may be issued by the Coordinator. (Ord.
2018-03, 9-11-2018)
9-13-3: EXCESSIVE SLOPE:
   A.   Intent: The intent is to review any development on slopes greater than
twenty percent (20%) to:
      1.   Ensure that such development is compatible with prevailing slopes;
      2.   Provide the least disturbance to the terrain and other natural land
features of the area;
      3.   Determine availability of utilities and adequate access;
      4.   Reduce the impact of development on surface runoff and natural
watershed; and
      5.   Enhance the natural mountain setting of the area.
   B.   Review Criteria:
      1.   In reviewing the development, the staff shall consider:
         a.   The suitability of the site for development considering the
slope, ground stability, and the possibility of mud flow and rock slides.
         b.   The effects of the development on the natural watershed, runoff,
drainage, soil erosion, and consequent effects on water pollution.
         c.   The design and location of any proposed structures, roads,
driveways, or trails and their compatibility with the terrain.
         d.   The placement of structures so as to minimize road cutting and
grading, as well as to increase open space and preserve the hillside as a
scenic resource.
         e.   The design of driveways to prevent water runoff from entering the
roadway.
         f.   The provision of parking to prevent or limit roadside parking
when the slope of the driveway will exceed twelve percent (12%).
      2.   All site plans for lots, tracts, or parcels with any portion of the
site plan containing twenty percent (20%) slope shall be drawn showing two foot
(2') contours.
      3.   Any proposed subdivision lot(s) with a slope of twenty percent (20%)
or greater shall be required to have a minimum front lot width of two hundred
feet (200')
      4.   The applicant may be required to provide drainage and runoff studies
conducted by a licensed (registered) engineer.
      5.   The criteria used shall be flexible in allowing innovative land uses
to permit landowners, when and where suitable, the reasonable use of their land
while preserving the environmental and aesthetic values that the area requires
considering the welfare of the adjacent neighborhoods. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
9-13-4: HIGH WATER TABLE AREAS:
   A.   All structures and infrastructure, in order to be located in areas of
high water table, shall protect the pristine streams and fragile vegetation of
the area. An engineer's report may be required by the council to be prepared
and submitted at the applicant's expense. Structures and fill shall be located
in these areas to avoid any adverse change in adjacent property water
resources.
   B.   The commission may require the applicant to provide drainage and runoff
studies conducted by a licensed (registered) engineer. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
9-13-5: RIDGE LINE AND VIEW SHED AREAS:
Construction that considerably degrades the scenic quality of a pristine area
by its location of high visibility shall not be permitted; degradation of
scenic quality is to be reasonably prevented. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 14
AIRPORT HEIGHT LIMITATION AREA
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose
9-14-2: Authority And Findings
9-14-3: Declarations
9-14-4: Definitions
9-14-5: Conflicting Regulations
9-14-6: Airport Zones
9-14-7: Airport Zone Height Limits
9-14-8: Use Restrictions
9-14-9: Nonconforming Uses
9-14-10: Permit Requirements; Exemptions; Variances
9-14-11: Administration And Enforcement Officials
9-14-12: Appeals
9-14-13: Judicial Review
9-14-14: Violation; Penalties
9-14-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter:
   A.   Regulates and restricts the height of structures and objects of natural
growth, and otherwise regulates the use of property in the vicinity of the
Angel Fire airport by creating the appropriate zones and establishing the
boundaries thereof;
   B.   Provides for changes in the restrictions and boundaries of such zones;
   C.   Defines certain terms used herein;
   D.   Refers to the Angel Fire airport zoning map which is incorporated in
and made a part of this zoning code;
   E.   Provides for enforcement; and
   F.   Imposes penalties. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-2: AUTHORITY AND FINDINGS:
These regulations and restrictions are adopted pursuant to the authority
conferred by the laws of the state. It is hereby found that an obstruction has
the potential for endangering the lives and property of users of the Angel Fire
airport and property or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction
may affect existing and future instrument approach minimums of the Angel Fire
airport; and that an obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the
landing, take off, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or
impair the utility of the Angel Fire airport and the public investment therein.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-3: DECLARATIONS:
   A.   The creation or establishment of an obstruction has the potential of
being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by the Angel Fire
airport.
   B.   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety,
and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions that are
a hazard to air navigation be prevented.
   C.   The prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   D.   It is further declared that the prevention of the creation or
establishment of hazards to air navigation, the elimination, removal,
alteration or mitigation of hazards to air navigation, or marking and lighting
of obstructions are public purposes for which a political subdivision may raise
and expend public funds and acquire land or interests in land. (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002)
9-14-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AIRPORT: Angel Fire airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: Eight thousand three hundred eighty feet (8,380') above mean
sea level.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
this chapter. In plan view, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides
with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set
forth in this chapter.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this zoning
code and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation
unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which, in plan view, coincides
with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment hereto.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; when the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at
each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in this
chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take off of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man including, but not limited to, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations, and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-5: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-6: AIRPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Angel Fire airport. Such zones are shown on the
Angel Fire airport zoning map consisting of one sheet, prepared for the
village, which is attached to ordinance 2002-02, made a part hereof by
reference, and on file in the office of the village clerk for public use and
inspection. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows: (Ord. 2002-02,
1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two hundred fifty
feet (250') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of one
thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   B.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   C.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
five thousand feet (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
   D.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-7: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Height Limits Established: Except as otherwise provided in this zoning
code, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall
be allowed to grow in any zone created by this zoning code to a height in
excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such
applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand
feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Transitional Zones: Slope seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation which is one hundred feet (100')
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at
the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending
to where they intersect the conical surface.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the airport elevation or at a height of two hundred fifty feet (250') above
mean sea level.
      4.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   B.   Exemptions From Height Limits: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure or
growth of any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the
land. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-8: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this zoning code in such a manner
as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, take off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use.
   B.   Structures Under Construction: Nothing contained herein shall require
any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure,
the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
hereof, and is diligently prosecuted.
   C.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the
owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the council to indicate to the operators
of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the Angel Fire airport. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-10: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS; VARIANCES:
   A.   Future Uses:
      1.   Permit Required: Except as specifically provided in subsections A4a,
A4b and A4c of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of
land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall
be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted.
      2.   Application For Permit: Each application for a permit shall indicate
the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit; Restrictions: If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with
the provisions of this zoning code shall be granted unless a variance has been
approved in accordance with this section.
      4.   Exemptions From Permit:
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
         d.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this zoning code or any amendments hereto or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the code official
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more
than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Application For Variance: Any person desiring to erect or increase
the height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property
not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to
the council for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the federal aviation
administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
      2.   Standards For Granting Variance: Such variances shall be allowed
where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the
regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be
contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation,
will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this
chapter.
      3.   Review Of Application; Grant Or Denial Of Variance: Additionally, no
application for variance to the requirements of this chapter may be considered
by the council unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the
airport manager for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If
the airport manager does not respond to the application within fifteen (15)
days after receipt, the council may act on its own to grant or deny said
application.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the council, this condition may be modified to require the owner to
permit the Angel Fire airport, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-11: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Code Official: It shall be the duty of the code official to administer
and enforce the regulations prescribed in this chapter. Applications for
permits and variances shall be made to the village upon a form published for
that purpose. Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the
village shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. The code official
shall forthwith transmit application for action by the council.
   B.   Village Council:
      1.   The council shall have and exercise the following powers:
         a.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the code official in the enforcement of this chapter.
         b.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
chapter upon which the council, under such regulations, may be required to pass
and to hear and decide specific variances.
      2.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the council
shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the code official or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect
variation to this chapter. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the code official made in the administration of this chapter may
appeal to the council.
   B.   Time For Appeal; Notice To Village: All appeals hereunder must be taken
within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the council by filing with
the village a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The code
official shall forthwith transmit to the council all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the code official certifies to
the council, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the opinion of the
code official, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the council or notice to the
village and on due cause shown.
   D.   Hearing: The council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals,
give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the
same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Action By Village Council: The council may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-14-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the council
may appeal to the court as provided in the laws of the state. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-
17-2002)
9-14-14: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of the village code, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 15
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-15-1: PUDs Allowed; Effect Of Other Regulations
9-15-2: Desirability Of PUD
9-15-3: Conditions Of PUD
9-15-4: Principles To Be Considered
9-15-5: Approval Of PUD; Conditions
9-15-1: PUDS ALLOWED; EFFECT OF OTHER REGULATIONS:
Planned unit developments may be allowed by village approval in any zoning
district. Compliance with this zoning code in no way limits or changes the
applicable requirements of the subdivision ordinance as adopted and as may be
amended 1
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.1, except as specifically authorized in any
  approval of the planned unit development. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-15-2: DESIRABILITY OF PUD:
The proposed use of the particular location shall contribute to the general
well-being of the surrounding area, and will not be detrimental to the health,
safety, or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned
unit development. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-15-3: CONDITIONS OF PUD:
   A.   Area: A planned unit development shall be of a size adequate for the
proposed development.
   B.   Ownership: The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at
the time of application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all
owners of the property.
   C.   Design: The commission shall require such arrangements of structures
and open spaces within the site plan as necessary to ensure that adjacent
properties will not be adversely affected.
   D.   Density: Land use density shall in no case be more than twenty five
percent (25%) higher than allowed in the zoning district.
   E.   Applicable Regulations: Lot area, width, open space, height, density,
and coverage regulations shall be determined through approval of the site
development plan.
   F.   Open Spaces: Preservation, maintenance, and ownership of required open
spaces within the development shall be accomplished by either:
      1.   Dedication of land as a public park, greenbelt or trail system; or
      2.   Granting to the village a permanent, open space easement on and over
the private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains perpetually in
recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of an
owners' association established with articles of association and bylaws,
approved by the village and filed in accordance with the law.
   G.   Landscaping:
      1.   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the uses within the
site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the council with recommendation
of the commission for approval, together with other required plans for the
development.
      2.   A planting/maintenance plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery
plantings shall be prepared for the entire site to be developed.
      3.   A grading and drainage plan shall also be submitted to the
commission with the application.
   H.   Signs: The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity, direction and area of floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application and be compatible with the zoning district. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
9-15-4: PRINCIPLES TO BE CONSIDERED:
In making its determination regarding the planned unit development, the council
shall consider the following principles:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a
planned unit development be prepared by a designer, certified engineer or team
of designers having professional planning competence. The council may require
the applicant to engage professional expertise.
   B.   It is not the intent of this chapter that control of the design of a
planned unit development by the council be so rigidly exercised that individual
initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred, but rather,
that the control exercised be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter.
   C.   The council may approve or disapprove an application for a planned unit
development. In an approval, the council may attach such conditions as it deems
necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in this chapter. The
denial of an application for a planned unit development may be appealed. (Ord.
2002-02, 1-17-2002)
9-15-5: APPROVAL OF PUD; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Conditions Of Approval: As part of its approval of a planned unit
development, the council may require the applicant to meet the following
conditions (among others it deems appropriate):
      1.   That the proponents of the planned unit development have
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the council that they are financially able
to carry out the proposed project.
      2.   That the proponents intend to start construction within one year of
either the approval of the project or of any necessary zoning district change.
      3.   That the proponents intend to complete construction of the project,
or approved stages thereof, within four (4) years from the date construction
begins.
      4.   That the development is planned as one land use complex rather than
as an aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses.
   B.   Compliance With Approved Plans: Upon the council's approval of a
planned unit development, construction shall proceed only in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications, and in conformity with any conditions of
approval.
   C.   Amendments To Approved Plans: Amendment to approved plans and
specifications for a planned unit development shall be obtained only by
following the procedures here outlined for first approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-17-
2002)
CHAPTER 16
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-16-1: Statutory Authorization
9-16-2: Findings Of Fact
9-16-3: Purpose
9-16-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
9-16-5: Definitions
9-16-6: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
9-16-7: Basis For Establishing The Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
9-16-8: Establishment Of A Floodplain Use Permit
9-16-9: Compliance
9-16-10: Penalties For Noncompliance
9-16-11: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-16-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
9-16-13: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
9-16-14: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
9-16-15: Floodplain Use Permit Procedures
9-16-16: Elevation Certificates And Floodproofing Certificates
9-16-17: Variance Procedures
9-16-18: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-16-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
NMSA section 3-18-7 requires that a county or municipality with identified
flood or mudslide hazard areas shall by ordinance:
   A.   Designate and regulate floodplain areas having special flood or
mudslide hazards;
   B.   Prescribe standards for constructing, altering, installing or repairing
buildings and other improvements under a permit system within a designated
flood or mudslide hazard area;
   C.   Require review by the local floodplain manager for development within a
designated flood or mudslide hazard area provided final decisions are approved
by the local governing body;
   D.   Review subdivision proposals and other new developments within a
designated flood or mudslide hazard area to ensure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are designed to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
   E.   Require new or replacement water supply systems or sanitary sewage
systems within a designated flood or mudslide hazard area to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the systems into floodwater and require on site waste disposal
systems to be located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from
them during flooding; and
   F.   Designate and regulate floodways for the passage of floodwaters.
Therefore, the Angel Fire village council of the village of Angel Fire, New
Mexico, does ordain the following. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the village of Angel Fire are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-3: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditures of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that serve
such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: When flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial
fan or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by
high velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition, and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: When flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar
landform below which the flow path of the major stream that formed the fan
becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO or A1-99.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
A. Built in the case of a building in zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, B, C, X, and
D, to have the top of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by
means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the
floor of the water; and
B. Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. "Elevated
building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the area of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of water, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning regulations, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, this chapter, and other applications of
police power. The term describes such state and local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREAS: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water or sanitary facilities, structures
and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORICAL STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
A. Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of
interior; or
D. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
with historic preservation programs that have been certified either by an
approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of interior in states without approved programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in the area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
A. Built on a single chassis;
B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and
D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and refers to the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
nor occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary conditions or
B. Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-6: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village of Angel Fire, and other floodplain areas that are
adopted by the Angel Fire village council. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
   A.   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in an engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study
For The Village Of Angel Fire", dated November 4, 2010, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this code.
   B.   Other floodplain areas may be designated by the Angel Fire village
council upon request by the floodplain administrator. These floodplain areas
may be determined in one of two (2) ways. Floodplains may be delineated by
accepted hydrologic and hydraulic practices or floodplains may be areas flooded
by a historic flood.
   C.   Before floodplains other than special flood hazard areas designated by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency may be adopted, they must be approved
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for floodplain management purposes.
   D.   If the base flood (100-year flood) has been determined for a stream
reach, in no case shall a floodplain be adopted that has a flood elevation
lower than the base flood elevation. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF A FLOODPLAIN USE PERMIT:
A floodplain use permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-10: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of all provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-11: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other code sections, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord.
2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter and any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 2010-
15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-13: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Coordinator of Planning is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-2018)
9-16-14: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintaining and holding open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Ensuring that all floodplain use permits are reviewed by a certified
Floodplain Manager.
   C.   Reviewing development permit applications to determine whether proposed
building site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   D.   Reviewing and approving or denying all applications for floodplain use
permits required by adoption of this chapter.
   E.   Reviewing permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local government
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
amendment from which prior approval is required).
   F.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   G.   Notifying, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the New
Mexico department of homeland security and emergency management prior to any
alterations or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of notification
to the federal emergency management agency.
   H.   Assuring that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   I.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
9-16-7 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
section
9-16-18 of this chapter.
   J.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvement,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   K.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision). (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-15: FLOODPLAIN USE PERMIT PROCEDURES:
Application for a floodplain use permit shall be presented to the floodplain
administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
including the placement of manufactured homes, and the locations of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
   A.   In zones A or AO or designated floodplains where no base flood
elevation is provided:
      1.   The elevation of the lowest floor of any building above the highest
adjacent grade.
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      3.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
9-16-14A of this chapter.
   B.   In zones AE, AH, or A1-A30 or other designated floodplain where a base
flood elevation is provided:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
9-16-18B2 of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
9-16-14A of this chapter.
   C.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters;
      8.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-16: ELEVATION CERTIFICATES AND FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATES:
   A.   The floodplain administrator shall require that the owner of a new or
substantially improved building in a floodplain provide a FEMA elevation
certificate or a FEMA floodproofing certificate for such building prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   B.   The floodplain administrator will review all FEMA elevation
certificates and floodproofing certificates for completeness and correctness.
   C.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a file of all FEMA
elevation certificates and floodproofing certificates and make them available
to the public upon request. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-17: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Angel Fire village council shall hear and render judgment on
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Angel Fire village council shall hear and render judgment on an
appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Angel Fire
village council may appeal such decision in the courts of competent
jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
9-16-15C of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the village council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter, as set out in section
9-16-3 of this chapter.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by the village for new construction and
substantial improvement and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsection
9-16-15C of this chapter are met, and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
9-16-18: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards:
      1.   In A zones and other designated floodplains where no base flood
elevation is provided, the following provisions are provided:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvement of any
structure, including manufactured housing, shall be built or placed on
compacted fill that is at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade
prior to any disturbance of the building site. Such fill shall extend at least
ten feet (10') from the walls of the structure before it drops below the two
foot (2') elevation. All residential structures shall have positive drainage
away from the structures. The finished floor of the structure shall be at least
one foot (1') above the elevation of the fill.
         b.   New construction and substantial improvements, with areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which is subject to
flooding shall not be enclosed.
      2.   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation
data has been provided as set forth in section
9-16-7 and subsection
9-16-14I of this chapter and subsection C3 of this section, the following
provisions are required:
         a.   All New Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any structure, including manufactured housing, shall be built or
placed on compacted fill that is at least as high as the base flood elevation.
Such fill shall extend at least ten feet (10') from the walls of the structure
before it drops below the base flood elevation. All residential structures
shall have positive drainage away from the structures.
         b.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to at least one foot (1') above the basement elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this
subsection as proposed in subsection
9-16-15B1 of this chapter is satisfied.
         c.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
meet the requirements for residential construction.
         d.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which is
subject to flooding shall not be enclosed.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
9-16-2,
9-16-3, and
9-16-4 of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
9-16-8 and
9-16-15 of this chapter and this section.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
section
9-16-7 or subsection
9-16-14I of this chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water system located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   D.   Standards For Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      2.   All new water wells shall:
         a.   Either have the casing extend at least one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation or be sealed so that floodwater cannot enter the casing.
         b.   Have all electrical controls and devices elevated at least one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation or have such electrical controls and
devices floodproofed to at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Septic tank located within floodplains shall:
         a.   Be anchored to prevent flotation in the event that the ground is
saturated from the bottom of the tank to ground level;
         b.   Be sealed so that water will not infiltrate the tank;
         c.   Be sealed so that the sewage will not escape the tank; and
         d.   Have one-way valves to prevent sewage from leaving the tank if
the tank is inundated and the ground is saturated from the bottom of the tank
to ground level. (Ord. 2010-15, 11-16-2010)
TITLE 10
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: General Policy Requirements
10-1-6: Interpretation
10-1-7: Severability
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the VILLAGE OF ANGEL FIRE SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS and shall be referred to elsewhere herein as "this title". The
village council may be referred to elsewhere herein as the "council", and the
planning and zoning commission may be referred to elsewhere herein as the
"commission". (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in New Mexico Statutes
Annotated section 3-19-6 and the directives given in New Mexico Statutes
Annotated sections 3-20-1 through 3-20-16. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To provide for and protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the village;
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the village in accordance
with all official plans adopted by the village;
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger;
   D.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the village and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings; (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   E.   To provide the most beneficial circulation of traffic; and to provide
for the proper location and widths of streets and nonmotorized trails; (Ord.
2006-04, 1-19-2006)
   F.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions to further the orderly layout of and use of
land;
   G.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ground water, to assure
the adequacy of drainage facilities, and to safeguard the water table; and
   H.   To provide for the reservation of open spaces for the protection of
wildlife, scenic views, and natural features. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This title shall govern all subdivision of land within the boundaries of the
village and the land within the extraterritorial planning and platting
jurisdiction of the village. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-5: GENERAL POLICY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Public Lands: Approval of a subdivision by the village
council shall constitute intent by the village to accept the streets, alleys or
other public ways or easements, and parks or other public lands dedicated on
the subdivision plat by the developer. Acceptance for maintenance of such land
dedications shall be by separate council action.
   B.   Suitability Of Land For Subdivision: The village council shall not
approve a subdivision of land if, from adequate investigations, it has been
determined that in the interest of the public health, safety or welfare, the
land is not suitable for platting and development purposes of the kind
proposed. Land subject to flooding and/or mudslides, land deemed to be
topographically unsuitable, land occupied by noxious weeds, and land that is
for other reasons uninhabitable, all as determined by the village council,
shall not be platted for residential occupancy or for such other uses as it may
increase danger to health, safety or welfare, or aggravate existing erosion or
flood hazard.
   C.   Grubbing, Thinning And Grading: No person shall proceed with any
grubbing, thinning and grading specifically in relation to a proposed
subdivision, before having an approved final plat. Such grading shall be
consistent with the recommendations of a terrain management plan that is
approved as part of the final plat.
   D.   Roads And Utilities:
      1.   All residential subdivisions developed within the village limits
shall have gravel roads with bar ditches and provisions for separated
pedestrian pathways.
      2.   All commercial subdivisions developed within the village limits
shall have paved streets with curb, gutter, and sidewalks.
      3.   Easements or other access to all utilities shall be provided to the
front of all lot lines.
      4.   All new subdivisions shall be required to connect with village water
and wastewater systems.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions: No lot within a subdivision may be sold
until the subdivider has complied with this title and the final plat has been
properly recorded with the village clerk and the county clerk's office. (Ord.
2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
These regulations are minimum requirements. Whenever any provision of this
title conflicts with any other law, rule, regulation, covenant or ordinance,
the more restrictive shall control. This title shall be construed liberally to
promote the purpose for which it is adopted. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this title are severable. If any provision, sentence, clause,
section, or part hereof is held to be illegal, invalid, unconstitutional, or
inapplicable to any person or circumstance, the illegality, invalidity,
unconstitutionality or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or parts of this title or
their application to other persons or circumstances. It is hereby declared to
be the intent of the village that this title would have been adopted if such
illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, sentence, clause, section or
part had not been included, and if the person or circumstances to which this
title or any part hereof are inapplicable had been specifically exempted from
application of this title. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ALLEY: A minor public way, having a right of way width sufficient for vehicular
service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the village of Angel Fire,
New Mexico.
CONTIGUOUS: Refers to adjacent lots sharing a boundary line or separated only
by a road, right of way or easement.
COUNCIL: The four (4) at large elected representatives of the village who,
along with the mayor, make up the governing body of the village of Angel Fire,
New Mexico.
COVENANTS: An agreement between or among private property owners within a
common subdivision or area typically outlining architectural guidelines and
property maintenance provisions.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having a terminus with a
radius of fifty feet (50') for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
DEVELOPER: The property owner(s) who is engaged in the process of subdividing
their property for development purposes. This term is interchangeable with
"subdivider".
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT: A statement given to a person acquiring an interest in
subdivided land regarding the conditions of the land, including any
encumbrances on the land.
DRIVEWAY: A private access road used by persons residing, employed, or
otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which said driveway is located.
EASEMENT: An acquired or granted right from a property owner for a specific use
by the general public, a corporation, or certain person(s).
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT: A permit issued to a private party, corporation, or
utility company for the purpose of excavating a trench or pit, or boring under
or within a village right of way for the installation of utility lines,
conduits, or drainage structures 1
LOT: A unit of land capable of being described by location and boundaries and
not dedicated for public or common use; intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, for development, or both.
LOT DEPTH: The depth of a lot is the dimension measured from the front of the
lot to the extreme rear line of the lot. The depth will be averaged if the lot
is trapezoidal in shape.
LOT WIDTH: Dimension between side property lines measured parallel to the
street right of way line. The width will be averaged if the lot is trapezoidal
in shape.
MANUFACTURED HOME: As defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21A-2,
is a home that is a single-family dwelling with a heated area of at least
thirty six by twenty four feet (36 x 24') and at least eight hundred sixty four
(864) square feet constructed in a factory to the standards of the United
States department of housing and urban development, the national manufactured
housing construction and safety standards act of 1974 and the housing and urban
development zone code II or the building code, as amended to the date of the
unit's construction, and installed consistent with the manufactured housing
act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated chapter 60, article 14.
MOBILE HOME: As defined by New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-21A-3, is a
movable or portable housing structure larger than forty feet (40') in body
length, eight feet (8') in width or eleven feet (11') in overall height,
designed for and occupied by no more than one family for living and sleeping
purposes but does not include structures built to the standards of any
municipal building code and other technical codes.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed specifically for mobile homes.
NMDOT: New Mexico department of transportation.
NMED: The New Mexico environment department.
OWNER: A person or successor in interest having a legal or equitable interest
in a given property.
PERSON: Any individual, estate, trust, receiver, cooperative association, club,
corporation, company, firm, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or other
entity.
PLAT: A map, chart, survey, plan or replat certified by a licensed land
surveyor containing a description of the subdivided land with ties to permanent
monuments.
PLAT, FINAL: A map, survey, plat, or replat certified by a New Mexico
registered land surveyor which contains a description of the subdivided land
with ties to permanent monuments prepared in a form suitable for recording at
the Colfax County clerk's office.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of a proposed subdivision showing the character and
proposed layout of the subdivision and the existing conditions in and around
it.
PUBLIC HEARING: Any hearing open to the public or any hearing or such thereof
as to which testimony or other evidence is made available or disseminated to
the public.
RECREATIONAL TRAIL EASEMENT: An easement designated for the purpose of
developing a nonmotorized trail. A recreational trail easement can be overlaid
over a utility easement.
REPLAT: The act of reconfiguring a subdivision or portion of a subdivision by
abandoning and removing existing lot lines, rights of way, easements of a
previously platted subdivision and replacing them with new lot lines, rights of
way, and easements as part of a new subdivision.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land area, property or interest therein, usually a strip, for or
devoted to transportation, drainage and/or utility purposes which are dedicated
to or acquired by the village, county, state, or federal government for public
use.
SITE PLAN: A map or drawing showing the general features or concept of a
development including property boundaries of the tract proposed for
development; location and arrangement, size, use and design of all structures;
existing and proposed utility rights of way and easements; vehicular and
pedestrianways; on site parking areas; open spaces; landscaped areas; size and
design of exterior signs.
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT AREAS: Those areas of the village identified on the special
development areas map as having particular topographical and/or hydrological
features or conditions, including steep slopes, high water table and wetlands,
ridgelines, and specified viewsheds.
STREET: A public way for vehicular and pedestrian traffic whether designated as
a street, drive, highway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, way, or however
otherwise designated.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designed to carry large volumes of traffic and
provide for efficient vehicular movement between large areas of the village or
through the village as designated on the village street and thoroughfare map.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designed to carry moderate volumes of traffic and
provides for efficient vehicular movement between local streets and arterial
streets or from arterial to arterial streets as designated on the village
street and thoroughfare map.
STREET, LOCAL: A street of limited continuity designed to carry low volumes of
traffic used primarily for access to abutting properties and the local needs of
a neighborhood as designated on the village street and thoroughfare map.
SUBDIVISION: As defined by the New Mexico Statutes Annotated section 3-20-1,
means:
A. For the area of land within the corporate boundaries of the village, the
division of land into two (2) or more parts by platting or by metes and bounds
description into tracts for the purposes set forth in subsection C of this
definition; and
B. For the area of land within the village's extraterritorial subdivision and
platting jurisdiction, the division of land into two (2) or more parts by
platting or by metes and bounds description into tracts of less than five (5)
acres in any one calendar year for the purposes set forth in subsection C of
this definition.
C. The division of land pursuant to subsections A and B of this definition
shall be for the purpose of:
   1. Sale for building purposes;
   2. Laying out the village or any part thereof;
   3. Adding to the village;
   4. Laying out suburban lots; or
   5. Resubdivision.
SUBDIVISION BOND: A security bond, letter of credit, or some other instrument
of financial guarantee of infrastructure improvements.
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT: A contractual agreement between the
subdivider and the village that allows the subdivision plat to be filed with
the county clerk prior to completing required infrastructure improvements. This
agreement is to be secured by a subdivision bond.
SUMMARY SUBDIVISION: An administrative subdivision process that creates a
maximum of two (2) lots, parcels, or tracts.
TERRAIN MANAGEMENT: The control of floods, drainage, and erosion, and all
measures necessary to adapt proposed development to existing soil
characteristics and topography.
TERRAIN MANAGEMENT PLAN: A land management plan that includes, and is based
upon a geotechnical report, a drainage report and an archeological survey of
the land proposed to be subdivided.
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS: A study designed to analyze the amount of traffic on
existing or proposed roads and streets which will be generated by a proposed
development or subdivision.
TRAIL: A strip of developed or undeveloped land for the use of transportation
or recreation by nonmotorized modes of travel. A trail can be built on a right
of way or on a recreation trail easement.
VACATION: The act of rescinding (canceling) all or part of legal dedications
and grants of easement.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The individual designated to represent the village in the
review of subdivision and other construction projects and drawings.
WATERCOURSE: Any perennial, intermittent or ephemeral surface water conveyance
channel including, but not limited to, a river, creek, arroyo, draw, canal or
wash, or any other channel having definite banks and beds with visible evidence
of the flow of water.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions in New Mexico; constructed wetlands are not
included in this definition. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd. Ord. 2003-11, 11-20-
2003; Ord. 2004-10, 11-4-2004; Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006; Ord. 2006-11, 10-19-
2006; Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.1.
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
ARTICLE A.  PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Preapplication Process
10-3A-2: Data Requirements
10-3A-1: PREAPPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Optional Preapplication Conference: For the purpose of expediting
applications and reducing subdivision design and development costs, a developer
is encouraged to request an informal preapplication conference with the
planning staff in accordance with the requirements provided herein. The
preapplication conference is intended to provide general guidance to the
subdivider about the procedures and data requirements for subdivision review
and approval in the village.
   B.   Application Information: At the request of the developer, the village
shall provide information and forms for preliminary plat submittal to comply
with the village subdivision process and the New Mexico subdivision act 1
 
Notes
1 1. NMSA § 47-5-1 et seq.1. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3A-2: DATA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sketch Plan: A sketch plan and a location map showing general
configuration of streets and lot layout relative to the topography of the site
should be provided to staff for the preapplication conference.
   B.   Additional Information: In addition to the sketch plan, the developer
should include the following:
      1.   The name and mailing address of the developer and designated agent,
if any;
      2.   The name(s) of owner(s) of land to be subdivided;
      3.   A survey plat of the land proposed for subdivision;
      4.   A description of surrounding land uses; and
      5.   The accessibility of site to roads and utilities.
      6.   Any special conditions. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
ARTICLE B.  PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Submittal Of Preliminary Plat
10-3B-2: Fees
10-3B-3: Data Requirements
10-3B-4: Review Of Preliminary Plat
10-3B-5: Commission Recommendation
10-3B-6: Public Hearing
10-3B-7: Expiration Of Plat
10-3B-1: SUBMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Preliminary plats shall be submitted for all subdivisions. A developer shall
prepare a preliminary plat and supporting documentation in accordance with the
requirements provided in this article. Preliminary plat submittal is initiated
by completing an application on a prescribed application form obtained from the
village planning office, submitting said form along with all required drawings
and reports to the village planning office, and paying the required
administrative fee. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3B-2: FEES:
In addition to the administration subdivision fees to cover general expenses
related to processing subdivision documents, an engineering fee for subdivision
review, based on estimated construction costs is assessed. Estimated
construction costs shall be determined and approved by the Village Council
based on the developer’s submitted engineering estimated costs. The engineering
review fee shall be paid by the developer to the village as follows:
   A.   Two percent (2%) of estimated construction cost with the submission of
the preliminary plat and preliminary improvement plans.
   B.   In lieu of payment of two percent (2%) of estimated construction cost
with the submission of the preliminary plat and preliminary improvement plans
the Village Mayor and Council may approve a process whereby developers would
deposit cash with the village for its use in paying village costs of:
      1.   Any contracted professional services involved in developing and
placing in front of the governing body new or amended ordinances or regulations
necessary to accommodate the unusual scale or complexity of proposed
development;
      2.   Any contracted cost/benefit analysis deemed necessary by the Village
Mayor and Council to project added costs of other governmental services such as
police, fire, refuse, public education and medical services to serve new large-
scale development;
      3.   Any contracted planning, consulting, engineering, legal or
professional fees incurred for cost-benefit analysis;
      4.   Any reimbursement to cover all its costs including in-house costs
and overhead as well as village third-party contractor costs and expenses to
review infrastructure and facilities improvement plans that will be constructed
within the boundaries of the property, including, but not limited to plats and
improvement plans (“Subdivision Plans”) for roads, bridges, tunnels, water,
wastewater, and drainage and other improvements, which improvements will be
dedicated to the Village upon completion and inspection and which once
completed, the Village will thereafter own, operate and maintain (the
“Improvements”).
   C.   Additional review and inspections may require additional direct cost
basis fees. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd. Ord. 2021-05, 6-8-2021)
10-3B-3: DATA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: At a minimum, the preliminary plat review is intended to
provide sufficient information for the village to determine that there are: 1)
satisfactory roads to each lot including entry and exit for emergency vehicles;
2) that there are appropriate utility easements to each parcel; 3) terrain
management protection against flooding, inadequate drainage and erosion; and 4)
existing village maintained roads and utilities available to service the
proposed subdivision infrastructure.
   B.   Minimum Documentation: Supporting documentation, at a minimum, shall
include:
      1.   Water distribution system plan(s) and profile(s).
      2.   Liquid waste collection system plan(s) and profile(s).
      3.   Accessibility of site to streets and utilities.
      4.   Street plan(s) and profile(s), street(s) cross section and
composition.
      5.   Terrain management plan, to include:
         a.   Storm drainage analysis and plan for the 100-year frequency
storm;
         b.   Identification of areas of special flood hazard;
         c.   Wetlands and areas having high water tables;
         d.   Grading plan using two foot (2') contours showing all proposed
changes to ground elevations;
         e.   Proposed finished grade of each lot (if applicable); and
         f.   Soils analysis.
      6.   All plans, profiles, reports and other engineering elements shall be
stamped with the seal of and signed by a civil engineer registered in the state
of New Mexico.
   C.   Map Specifications: The preliminary plat map shall include the
following information:
      1.   Name of subdivision, scale, north arrow, and date.
      2.   Permanent monuments, or descriptions and ties to such monuments, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced.
      3.   Tract boundary lines, easements, right of way lines, property lines
of residential lots and other sites, with accurate dimensions, bearings or
deflection angles, radii, arcs, and central angles of all curves.
      4.   Reference of the plat to the New Mexico state plane coordinate
system.
      5.   Accurate description of legal access to roads and utility easements
for each lot; and if the access or easement is based upon an agreement, the
recording data in the land records for the agreement.
      6.   Name, right of way width, and centerline data of each road or other
right of way.
      7.   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements, individual
utility hookup points, and dedicated public sites.
      8.   Number of each lot and block in progression, with its dimensions and
lot area.
      9.   Street address on each lot, as assigned by the village.
      10.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by recorded name, date, book and page number in the office of the county clerk.
      11.   Name of the owner(s) of the subdivision, and the name of the
developer if other than the owner.
      12.   Certification and seal by a surveyor, in accordance with the laws
of the state of New Mexico, certifying the accuracy of the survey and plat,
that he prepared or supervised preparation of the plat, and that he has shown
all easements of record.
      13.   Legal description indicating the range, township, and section
within which the subdivision is located.
      14.   Signature blocks for all available wire utilities and services.
      15.   Recordation signature blocks as prescribed by the county clerk.
      16.   Statement that the subdivision is with the free consent and in
accordance with the desire of the undersigned owner of the land, acknowledged
in a manner required for the acknowledgment of deeds.
   D.   Submittal Specifications: The developer shall submit ten (10) copies of
the preliminary plat and supporting documentation for local review and
distribution to reviewing entities. Preliminary plat maps shall be prepared at
a scale of one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200') or larger, and printed on
sheets no larger than twenty eight inches by thirty six inches (28" x 36").
Sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used.
   E.   Phased Subdivisions: Subdivisions which are proposed to be phased and
filed in multiple final plats shall include an anticipated phasing schedule for
the final plats and a schedule of improvements. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   F.   Storm Drainage Management: For the purpose of minimizing or eliminating
damage resulting from stormwater runoff and as part of the terrain management
plan, the subdivider shall be required to furnish a preliminary plan and report
for storm drainage management. The drainage plan shall include a site map
showing existing topography indicating contour intervals sufficient for
planning purposes. If applicable, the 100-year floodplain as designated by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA) must be identified. Preparation of
the terrain management plan shall be done by an engineer and shall conform to
title 7 of this code. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd. Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   G.   Soils Analysis: The developer shall also provide a soils analysis by a
geotechnical engineer to determine the adequacy of the soil for the proposed
construction as part of the terrain management plan. Subdivisions reviewed by
the summary procedure of this title (see article D of this chapter) may be
exempt from this section unless the commission determines the analysis to be in
the public interest.
   H.   Special Development Areas: For lands within special development areas,
a report identifying any proposed solution to any geotechnical or drainage
problems shall be prepared that is acceptable to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   I.   Historical Or Archeological Sites: As part of the terrain management
plan, the developer shall disclose and identify any known or suspected
historical or archeological sites within the proposed subdivision. These areas
shall be shown as nondevelopable open space.
   J.   Protected Species Habitats: Any areas of the proposed subdivision that
lay within a habitat for a protected species as identified by the New Mexico
Forestry Division shall be identified and described in a written report
submitted with the application. These areas shall be shown on the plat as
nondevelopable open space. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   K.   Transportation Plans: Any portion of a subdivision that lies in the
path of a proposed street or trail alignment as shown on the future streets and
thoroughfare map or the future trails map shall provide the layout and design
of that street(s) and trail(s). Trails can be located on rights-of-way or on
recreational trail easements. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006)
10-3B-4: REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Plat Transmittals: Within five (5) business days after the date of
submittal of the preliminary plat, the Village shall forward a copy of the
preliminary plat and supporting documentation to the Village Engineer and to
any other agencies the Village considers necessary to determine whether there
are adequate infrastructure and facilities to accommodate the proposed
subdivision, with a request for review and opinions.
   B.   Review And Opinion Response: The Village Engineer and other reviewing
entities shall have thirty (30) days to review and return an opinion regarding
the preliminary plat to the Village.
   C.   Favorable Opinions; Session Deadline: If the opinions received from all
reviewers are favorable, the Village shall schedule a public session before the
commission for consideration of the preliminary plat within thirty (30) days
following receipt of all such favorable opinions.
   D.   Unfavorable Opinions; Session Deadline: If any opinion from any
reviewer is adverse, the Village shall forward a copy of the adverse opinion to
the developer and request that additional information be provided to the
Village within thirty (30) days to respond to the concerns of the reviewer(s).
The Village shall forward such additional information upon receipt to the
appropriate reviewing entity which shall have fifteen (15) days after the date
the developer submits the additional information to reconsider and return its
opinion.
   E.   Reconsidered Opinions; Session Deadline: The Village shall schedule a
public session before the commission for consideration within thirty (30) days
following receipt of such reconsidered opinions or the expiration of the
deadline for the return of such opinions.
   F.   Record Of Opinions: All opinions from the Village Engineer and
reviewing agencies shall be part of the documentary record made before the
commission and considered by it in making its recommendation to the Council.
   G.   Agency Review For Subdivisions Within The Extraterritorial Planning And
Platting Jurisdiction:
      1.   Plat Transmittals: The Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator
shall forward a copy or copies of the preliminary plat and supporting
documentation to the following State and local agencies by certified mail,
return receipt requested, with a request for review and opinions, as follows:
One copy New Mexico State Engineer Office;
One copy New Mexico Environment Department;
Four (4) copies New Mexico Highway and Transportation Department;
One copy soil and water conservation district in which the proposed subdivision
is located; and any other public agencies the Planning Coordinator or Village
Administrator considers necessary to determine whether there are adequate
facilities to accommodate the proposed subdivision (e.g., fire district, school
district, special purpose district or authority, Office of Cultural Affairs,
solid waste authorities, water districts and acequia associations, irrigation
districts, conservancy districts). These agencies will be disclosed to the
subdivider at the preapplication conference.
      2.   Agency Response: The State and local agencies shall have thirty (30)
days from their receipt of the preliminary plat to review and return an opinion
regarding the preliminary plat. The Planning Coordinator or Village
Administrator shall obtain receipts, or other proof, showing the date the
opinion request was received by each State or local agency.
      3.   Hearing Deadlines: If the opinions received from all agencies are
favorable, the Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator shall schedule a
public hearing for consideration and action on the preliminary plat within
thirty (30) days following the receipt of such favorable opinions. If the
Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator does not receive a requested
opinion within the specified thirty (30) days, it shall proceed with the public
hearing.
      4.   Adverse Opinion: If any opinion from a public agency is adverse, the
opinion shall detail each and every deficiency noted and provide for remedying
the deficiency if available. The Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator
shall forward a copy of the adverse opinion to the subdivider and request that
additional information be provided to the Village within thirty (30) days to
respond to the concerns of the appropriate agency. The Planning Coordinator or
Village Administrator shall obtain receipts, or other proof, showing the date
additional information was received by each State or local agency.
      5.   Revised Opinion: The Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator
shall schedule a public hearing for consideration and action within thirty (30)
days after the receipt of a revised opinion from the appropriate agency. If the
Planning Coordinator or Village Administrator does not receive a revised
opinion within the specified thirty (30) days after the date the subdivider
submits the additional information, it shall proceed with the required public
hearing.
      6.   Exemption: A subdivision, classified as a summary subdivision in
section
10-3D-2 of this chapter is exempt from this subsection G. (Ord. 2018-03, 9-11-
2018)
10-3B-5: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Public Session; Documentary Record: A public session before the
commission shall be scheduled as a part of a regularly scheduled meeting of the
commission. All documents submitted to the Village on the preliminary plat
shall be included in the record before the commission which record shall be
comprised of documentary evidence and opinions.
   B.   Notice Of Public Session: The notice of the public session shall be
posted at least ten (10) days prior to the session and shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village within fifteen (15) days prior
to the session and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Preliminary plat or plats to be considered.
      2.   Date, time, and place of the meeting.
      3.   Place where and method by which interested persons may acquire
copies of comments and related documents on the preliminary plat or plats to be
considered at the session.
   C.   Recommendation: Based solely on the documentary record, including
written statements submitted from the public, if any, and/or the developer and
his representatives, the commission shall recommend to the Village Council
approval, approval with conditions or disapproval of the preliminary plat. If a
decision cannot be made at the public session, the commission may defer their
recommendation to a later date specified at the conclusion of the public
session. The written recommendation decision of the commission shall be mailed
to the developer and delivered to the Village within five (5) days after being
made, and in no event, more than five (5) business days after the public
session. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3B-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Time For Hearing: Within thirty (30) days after the recommendation
decision of the commission is received by the Council, a public hearing before
the Council shall be held on the recommendation decision of the commission on
the preliminary plat.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the
developer in writing, posted as required by law and published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing.
   C.   Schedule: The public hearing before the council may occur as a part of
the regularly scheduled council public meeting or be separately scheduled.
   D.   Record: The record of the public hearing before the council shall
include the written documentary record upon which the commission's
recommendation decision was made; any public comments made at the public
hearing; the testimony of witnesses appearing on behalf of the developer and
the village; all exhibits offered and introduced into evidence before the
council; and all comments, questions, discussions and statements made by the
council and its members or village representatives at the public hearing. The
intent is that the record of the public hearing shall include a record of the
complete proceedings before the village council and the commission.
   E.   Witnesses And Exhibits: Witnesses may be called, examined, cross
examined and heard on behalf of the developer and the village at the public
hearing. Additional exhibits may be offered and, if relevant and admissible,
included in the record of the public hearing.
   F.   Hearing Continuation: The council may continue any public hearing,
properly noticed and open, for good cause shown, specifying the date for such
continued hearing at the time of the continuation decision. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-
2002)
   G.   Decision: The council shall make its decision on the recommendation of
the commission on the preliminary plat at the conclusion of the public hearing,
if possible, but in no event, later than ten (10) business days after the
public hearing. The council decision shall be in writing and sent by mail to
the developer. The date of the written decision shall be the date from which
any deadline for appeal by the developer is determined. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002;
amd. 2003 Code)
   H.   Procedure: The rules of civil procedure applicable to the district
courts in the state may be followed by the council in any public hearing to the
extent practicable and applicable to the matter of the preliminary plat and
associated issues. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3B-7: EXPIRATION OF PLAT:
   A.   Approved And Conditionally Approved Plats: An approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat shall expire twelve (12) months after its approval or
conditional approval if the developer has not submitted an application for
final plat approval. Upon request by the developer, an additional period of up
to twelve (12) months may be added to the expiration date of the preliminary
plat. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   B.   Phased Development: If the preliminary plat was approved for phased
development, the developer may file final plats for phases of the development,
and the expiration date of the preliminary plat shall be extended for an
additional thirty six (36) months after the date of the filing of each final
plat except for the final phase, extension shall be for twelve (12) months. The
number of phased final plats shall be determined by the developer and subject
to village council approval. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Effect Of Expiration: The expiration of the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat shall terminate all proceedings on the subdivision,
and a final plat shall be filed based on the expired preliminary plat. (Ord.
2002-03, 2-2002)
ARTICLE C. FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Submittal Of Final Plat
10-3C-2: Data Requirements
10-3C-3: Review Of Final Plat
10-3C-4: Decision
10-3C-5: Water Rights
10-3C-1: SUBMITTAL OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Filing Final Plat; Conformance With Preliminary Plat: Following
approval or conditional approval of a preliminary plat, and before the
expiration of the plat, the developer shall prepare a final plat in substantial
conformity with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat.
Subdivisions proposed to be phased in multiple final plats shall be submitted
as indicated on the phasing schedule submitted with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Application: A developer shall prepare a final plat and supporting
documentation in accordance with the requirements provided in this title. Final
plat submittal is initiated by completing an application on a prescribed form
available from the village planning office and upon payment of the required
administrative fees. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3C-2: DATA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Submittal Specifications: The subdivider shall submit ten (10) copies
of the final plat and supporting documentation for local review and
distribution to reviewing entities. Final plat maps shall be prepared at a
scale of one inch to two hundred feet (1"=200') or larger, and printed on
sheets no larger than twenty eight inches by thirty six inches (28"x36").
Sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used.
   B.   Map Specifications: The final plat map shall include the following
information:
      1.   Name of subdivision, scale, north arrow, and date;
      2.   Permanent monuments, or descriptions and ties to such monuments, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced.
      3.   Tract boundary lines, easements, right of way lines, property lines
of residential lots and other sites with accurate dimensions, bearings or
deflection angles, radii, arcs, and central angles of all curves;
      4.   Reference the plat to the New Mexico state plane coordinate system;
      5.   Accurate description of legal access to roads and utility easements
for each lot; and if the access or easement is based upon an agreement, the
recording data in the land records for the agreement;
      6.   Name, right of way width, and centerline data of each road or other
right of way;
      7.   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements, individual
utility hookup points, and dedicated public sites;
      8.   Number of each lot and block in progression, with its dimensions and
lot area;
      9.   Street address on each lot, as assigned by the village; and
      10.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by recorded name, date, book and page number in the office of the county clerk.
      11.   Name of the owner(s) of the subdivision, and the name of the
developer if other than the owner.
      12.   Certification and seal by a surveyor, in accordance with the laws
of the state of New Mexico, certifying the accuracy of the survey and plat,
that he prepared or supervised preparation of the plat, and that he has shown
all easements of record.
      13.   Legal description indicating the range, township, and section
within which the subdivision is located.
      14.   Signature blocks for all available utilities and services.
      15.   Recordation signature blocks as prescribed by the county clerk.
      16.   Statement that the subdivision is with the free consent and in
accordance with the desire of the undersigned owner of the land, acknowledged
in a manner required for the acknowledgment of deeds.
      17.   Location of historical and archeological sites.
      18.   Location of endangered species habitats.
   C.   Dedication: The final plat shall contain a certification statement that
the village council has accepted, on behalf of the public, any land offered for
dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication. On full conformity with village water, sewer, and road construction
standards, the village will accept the water lines, sewer lines, and roads for
maintenance. Acceptance of offers of dedication on the final plat shall not be
effective until the final plat is filed in the office of the county clerk along
with a resolution of acceptance by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord.
2002-03, 2-2002)
   D.   Supplemental Documents: See subsections 10-3B-3B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J
and K of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006)
10-3C-3: REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Necessity Of Final Review Process: If the preliminary plat of the
subject subdivision was approved with conditions, then the developer will
initiate a final plat review process.
   B.   Plat Transmittals: Within five (5) business days after the date of
submittal of the final plat, the village shall forward a copy of the final plat
and supporting documentation to the village engineer and to any other agencies
the village considers necessary to determine whether the preliminary plat
conditions have been met, with a request for review and opinions.
   C.   Review And Opinion Response: The village engineer and other reviewing
entities shall have thirty (30) days to review and return an opinion regarding
the final plat to the village.
   D.   Favorable Opinions; Hearing Deadlines: If the opinions received from
reviewers are favorable, the village shall schedule a public hearing before the
village council for consideration and action on the final plat within thirty
(30) days following receipt of all such favorable opinions.
   E.   Unfavorable Opinions; Additional Information: If any opinion from any
reviewer is adverse, the village shall forward a copy of the adverse opinion to
the developer and request that additional information be provided to the
village within thirty (30) days to respond to the concerns of the reviewer(s).
The village shall forward such additional information upon receipt to the
appropriate reviewing entity which shall have fifteen (15) days after the date
the developer submits the additional information to reconsider and return its
opinion.
   F.   Reconsidered Opinions; Public Session; The village shall then schedule
a public session before the commission for consideration within the thirty (30)
days following the receipt of such reconsidered opinion or the expiration of
the deadline for return of such opinions.
   G.   Record Of Opinions: All opinions from the village engineer and
reviewing agencies shall be part of the documentary record made before the
commission and considered by it in making its recommendation to the council.
(Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3C-4: DECISION:
   A.   Time For And Types Of Action: Final plats submitted to the village for
approval shall be recommended for approval, tabled or disapproved by the
planning and zoning commission at a public session within thirty (30) days
after review comments and recommendations have been received by the commission
from all the reviewing entities. The recommendation decision of the commission
shall be forwarded to the village council for a public hearing.
   B.   Public Hearing, Notice And Procedure: The provisions of section
10-3B-6 of this chapter shall apply to and govern the scheduling, notice and
procedure of the village council's decision on a final plat.
   C.   Denial: Denial of a final plat shall be accompanied by findings of fact
by the council identifying the basis for the denial. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   D.   Subdivision Improvement Agreement: After the approval of the final
plat, but before any lots can be sold, the final subdivision plat must be filed
with the county clerk. Before the final plat can be filed, the developer must
either build all of the required improvements or must enter into a subdivision
improvement agreement with the village and post a financial guarantee with the
village in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total cost of
improvements. A subdivision improvement agreement allows the sale of lots prior
to the completion of improvements. No building permits shall be issued until
the village has accepted all of the required improvements for maintenance. Cost
estimates are to be submitted in the form of a bid estimate secured by the
developer from the appropriate type(s) of contractor(s) licensed by the New
Mexico construction industries division. This subdivision improvement agreement
shall constitute a binding contract between the developer and the village.
(Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006)
   E.   Financial Guarantee: A financial guarantee may be in the form of a
letter of credit, a security bond, or escrow deposit. The financial guarantee
requires village council approval. No drawdowns from the financial guarantee
will be allowed until all improvement elements have been completed, inspected
and accepted by the village.
   F.   Filing Final Plat; Expiration: Unless a final plat is properly filed
with the county clerk in accordance with this title, approval of such plat
shall expire three (3) years after the date of approval. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   G.   Digital File: After final plat approval and prior to the filing of the
subdivision plat, the developer shall submit a digital file of the plat in
AutoCAD 2005 or later version to the village. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006)
10-3C-5: WATER RIGHTS:
   A.   Transfer Required: The developer shall agree that if the village
approves the subdivision, in consideration of that approval, the applicant will
make water rights available to the village in amounts as specified in this
section.
   B.   Time Of Transfer: The developer shall transfer these water rights to
the village after final plat approval and before recording the plat as follows:
      1.   By transferring ownership and use of the water rights to the village
in accordance with the rules and procedures of the New Mexico state engineer;
or such other method of transfer or comparable compensation as approved in the
final plat approval by the village council.
      2.   By paying compensation to the village sufficient to allow the
village to obtain the necessary and correct water rights. This compensation
shall cover the cost of the current market price of water rights and all
professional service fees to accomplish a transfer. This option is subject to
the village's willingness to undertake this effort.
   C.   Amount Of Water Transferred Or Compensated:
      1.   Residential Subdivisions: The amount of water rights required for
any residential subdivision shall not be less than 0.333 acre-feet per year of
consumptive use for each dwelling unit in the subdivision.
      2.   Commercial Subdivisions: Where a subdivision involves land to be
used for commercial purposes, the village shall require that the developer
provide a report that estimates the total water use for commercial purposes
under conditions of full development. The developer shall be required to
provide the water rights, or fee in lieu of, prior to the filing of the
subdivision plat. Each lot will be reevaluated at the time of building permit
application.
   D.   Engineering Fee: Any and all engineering or other professional fees
incurred by the village under this section to achieve water right transfers or
compensation shall be paid by the developer at the time such fees are incurred.
   E.   Private Wells: Individual and/or clustered domestic wells will require
council approval within any proposed subdivision within the village. (Ord.
2002-03, 2-2002)
ARTICLE D.SUMMARY SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Plat Required
10-3D-2: Requirements For Summary Approval
10-3D-3: Ineligibility For Summary Approval
10-3D-4: Exemption From Platting Process
10-3D-1: PLAT REQUIRED:
All summary subdivisions shall require a plat to be filed with the county
clerk. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3D-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR SUMMARY APPROVAL:
   A.   After staff review and recommendation, the planning and zoning
chairperson may summarily approve and sign, along with the village clerk, the
plat(s) or replat(s) of subdivision(s) which comply with all zoning and
subdivision ordinances and regulations and where water, wastewater, and street
improvements are in place; if:
      1.   The subdivision contains no more than two (2) parcels of land; or
      2.   In a resubdivision, the combination or recombination of portions of
previously platted lots does not increase the total number of lots.
   B.   The planning and zoning chairperson or designee shall summarily approve
the subdivision of land if:
      1.   The subdivision does not create lots greater than one (1) acre.
      2.   The total land area of the subdivision does not exceed five (5)
acres.
      3.   Each new subdivision lot satisfies minimum state requirements for
water and wastewater standards.
      4.   The subdivision is located more than one thousand two hundred
(1,200) linear feet from a municipal water of wastewater main or is served by
public water and wastewater infrastructure.
      5.   Summary subdivisions cannot be combined with adjacent summary
subdivisions. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 7-11-2023)
10-3D-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR SUMMARY APPROVAL:
   A.   A plat that proposes the dedication or vacation of easements must go to
the planning and zoning commission for approval.
   B.   A plat that proposes the dedication or vacations of a right of way is
not eligible for this summary procedure. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-3D-4: EXEMPTION FROM PLATTING PROCESS:
A plat shall not be required when an application for the combination of lots is
filed with the planning and zoning commission for the purpose of combining
contiguous lots when the total number of platted lots will be reduced and no
perimeter lot line will be relocated. This exception may be approved
administratively.
   A.   The subdivision of land that satisfies the requirements of Section
10-3D-2-2 may be approved administratively. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-18-2002; amd. Ord.
2003-11, 11-20-2003; Ord. 2023-07, 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose; Compliance Required; Variances
10-4-2: Developer's Responsibility
10-4-3: Preconstruction Meeting
10-4-4: Streets And Roads
10-4-5: Water Service
10-4-6: Wastewater Service
10-4-7: Drainage System (Rep. by Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
10-4-8: Traffic Impact Analysis
10-4-9: Digital Data And As Built Drawings
10-4-1: PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; VARIANCES:
These design standards are intended to be a guide to the subdivider. Except
where modified by the council, each subdivision and the plat thereof shall be
in conformity with these design standards. A variance from these design
standards may be granted by the council in accordance with section
10-5-4 of this title. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-4-2: DEVELOPER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It is the sole responsibility of the developer to ensure that all construction
improvements are performed in compliance with federal, state, and local safety
and health laws. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-4-3: PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
Before construction begins, the developer's engineer shall hold a
preconstruction meeting with the contractor(s) and the village. The developer
will provide the village with a copy of the construction schedule for the
various phases of work to be done. (Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
10-4-4: STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   General Design Requirements:
      1.   Streets and alleys shall be arranged to not cause hardship to the
owners of adjoining property and offset streets shall be avoided. All lots
shall have reasonable access from a dedicated street.
      2.   Street layout shall be made according to sound land planning
practice for the type of development proposed and shall be coordinated with the
street system of the surrounding areas. All streets must provide for the
continuation of appropriate projections of arterial and collector streets in
surrounding areas and provide reasonable means of ingress and egress for
surrounding tracts.
      3.   Where land is subdivided into large tracts and where the potential
for future subdivision exists, such tracts shall be arranged to allow for
future streets and a logical further resubdivision pattern. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-
2002)
      4.   All streets shall be constructed of a minimum of double penetration
of chip sealed road construction. All streets and roads shall be designed on
projected needs for a twenty (20) year period. (Ord. 2006-11, 10-19-2006)
10-4-5: WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Connection To Village System Required; Pressure Requirements: The
subdivider shall connect with a water main of the Angel Fire municipal water
system and provide a water system with service lines to each lot in the
subdivision. All lines in the system shall be designed to carry adequate flows
for firefighting as specified by the New Mexico state fire marshal: twenty (20)
psi and one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute. In no case shall there be a
pressure zone exceeding one hundred fifty (150) psi.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   The minimum line size for looped lines shall be six inches (6"); for
nonlooped lines, the minimum line size shall be eight inches (8"). All
nonlooped lines shall have a five and one-fourth inch (51/4") fitting with a
bleeder valve at the end. All water lines shall be buried a minimum of six feet
(6') below the finished grade.
      2.   All service lines shall be of approved materials and sizes.
      3.   All pipe and pipe fittings, accessories, etc., shall be AWWA
standards. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
   C.   Water Hookup Agreement: (Rep. by Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   D.   Extensions: Extensions from the existing system to the subdivision
shall have additional capacity to serve adjacent properties and for future
expansion, as recommended by the village engineer.
   E.   Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be located within public rights of way,
spaced a maximum distance of four hundred feet (400') apart and shall conform
to the village fire code 1
   F.   Inspections: Prior to backfilling any water line ditch section, the
village shall inspect all pipe, valves, connections and grades, and approve
backfill material and procedures. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.1.
10-4-6: WASTEWATER SERVICE:
   A.   Connection To Village System: The subdivider shall connect with the
wastewater collection system of the village and provide an adequate collection
system to serve every lot in the subdivision.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   All wastewater lines shall be designed to carry the anticipated
flows. The minimum size shall be eight inches (8"), and the maximum flow
velocity shall be two feet (2') per second. Manholes shall have a maximum
separation of four hundred feet (400').
      2.   All service lines shall be of approved materials and sizes. (Ord.
2002-03, 2-2002)
   C.   Wastewater Hookup Agreement: (Rep. by Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
   D.   Extensions: Extensions from the existing system to the subdivision and
mains through the subdivision shall have additional capacity to serve adjacent
properties and for future expansion, as recommended by the village engineer.
   E.   Inspections: Prior to backfilling any wastewater line ditch section,
the village shall inspect pipe, manholes, connections and grades, and approve
backfill material and procedures. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-4-7: DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-07, 8-13-2013)
10-4-8: TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS:
   A.   A traffic impact analysis (TIA) may be required by the village to
assess the effects a particular subdivision will have on the surrounding
transportation network, to determine what provisions are needed for safe and
efficient site access and traffic flow, and to establish mitigation
requirements where off site impacts require improvements. Off site improvements
shall not be required to be constructed by the subdivider in order to address
existing transportation system deficiencies.
   B.   If required, the TIA shall address safety issues related to subdivision
ingress/egress and the impact of site generated traffic upon an intersection
created at the primary point of access from the subdivision to a publicly
maintained road, to be evaluated at projected build-out and occupancy of the
subdivision. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-4-9: DIGITAL DATA AND AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
   A.   Digital File: Prior to the filing of a subdivision plat, a digital copy
of the plat shall be submitted to the planning division. Acceptable format
shall be AutoCAD 2004 or subsequent versions.
   B.   As Built Drawings: Prior to the acceptance of new roads and utilities
for maintenance, digital copies of the "as built drawings" shall be submitted
to the planning division. Acceptable format shall be AutoCAD 2003 or subsequent
versions. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Administration Of Regulations Generally
10-5-2: Fees
10-5-3: Amendments
10-5-4: Variations
10-5-5: Appeals
10-5-1: ADMINISTRATION OF REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The planning and zoning commission may adopt, amend and publish rules and
instructions for the administration of this title to the end that the public be
informed and that approval of plats be expedited. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002; amd.
2003 Code)
10-5-2: FEES:
The fees for application for subdivision approval shall be as fixed from time
to time by the village council through resolution with due public notice. The
fees shall be paid by the developer to the village at the time of filing the
application, and these application fees are nonrefundable. Said application
fees are distinct and separate from the engineering review fees described in
section
10-3B-2 of this title. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-5-3: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the commission or council may from time to time propose amendments to this
title to be considered by the council at a public hearing following public
notice of the time and place of the public hearing. Such notice shall be
published once at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public
hearing. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-5-4: VARIATIONS:
Whenever a tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of this title would result in difficulties and substantial hardship
or injustices, the council may vary or modify such requirements so that the
developer is allowed to develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at
the same time, the public welfare and interest of the village are protected and
the general intent and spirit of this title are preserved. Written requests for
variations and exceptions must be submitted with the preliminary plat
application. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-2002)
10-5-5: APPEALS:
Any decision by the planning and zoning commission may be appealed to the
village council within fifteen (15) days of the decision. (Ord. 2002-03, 2-
2002)
TITLE 11
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CHAPTER 1
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: General Requirements
11-1-4: Discrimination Prohibited
11-1-5: Administrative
11-1-6: Termination
11-1-7: Effective Date
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to implement the Village's Affordable Housing Plan. In
accordance with the N.M. Constitution, Article IX, § 14, the Affordable Housing
Act, NMSA 1978, §§ 6-27-1 et seq. (the “Act”), NMMFA Rules, the purpose of the
Affordable Housing Ordinance is to:
   A.   Establish procedures to ensure that State and local housing assistance
grantees are Qualifying Grantees who meet the requirements of the Act and the
Rules promulgated pursuant to the Act both at the time of the award and
throughout the term of any grant or loan under the Program;
   B.   Establish an application and award timetable for State housing
assistance grants or loans to permit the selection of the Qualifying Grantee(s)
by.
   C.   Create an evaluation process to determine in conjunction with the MFA:
      1.   The financial and management stability of the Applicant;
      2.   The demonstrated commitment of the Applicant to the community;
      3.   A cost-benefit analysis of the project proposed by the Applicant;
      4.   The benefits to the community of a proposed project;
      5.   The type or amount of assistance to be provided;
      6.   The scope of the Affordable Housing Project;
      7.   Any substantive or matching contribution by the Applicant to the
proposed project;
      8.   A performance schedule for the Qualifying Grantee with performance
criteria; and
      9.   Any other rules or procedures the Village believes are necessary for
a full review and evaluation of the Applicant and the Application or which the
MFA believes is necessary for a full review of the Village's evaluation of the
Applicant;
   D.   Require long-term affordability of the Village's Affordable Housing
Projects so that a project cannot be sold shortly after completion and taken
out of the affordable housing market;
   E.   Require that a grant or loan for a project must impose a contractual
obligation on the Qualifying Grantee that the affordable housing units in any
project be occupied by persons of low or moderate income as defined in This
chapter;
   F.   Provide for adequate security against the loss of public funds or
property in the event that the Qualifying Grantee abandons or otherwise fails
to complete the project;
   G.   Require review and approval of a housing grant project budget by the
Village and/or the MFA before any expenditure of grant funds or transfer of
granted property;
   H.   Require that a condition of grant or loan approval be proof of
compliance with all applicable State and local laws, rules and ordinances;
   I.   Provide definitions for “low-income” and “moderate-income” and set out
requirements for verification of income levels; and
   J.   Provide the city with a valid affordable housing program; and
   K.   Require that the Village enter into a contract with the Qualifying
Grantee consistent with the Act, which contract shall include remedies and
default provisions in the event of the unsatisfactory performance by the
Qualifying Grantee and which contract shall be subject to the review of the MFA
in its discretion. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the following meanings.
ACT: The Affordable Housing Act, NMSA 1978, §§ 6-27-1 et seq.
AFFORDABILITY PERIOD:
   A.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds that have been awarded, loaned, donated, or
otherwise conveyed to the qualifying grantee is from one dollar ($1.00) to
fourteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents
($14,999.99), then the affordability period shall be not less than five (5)
years.
   B.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is from fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) up to and including forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00), then the
affordability period shall be not less than ten (10) years.
   C.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is greater than forty thousand dollars
($40,000.00) up to and including one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00),
then the affordability period shall be not less than fifteen (15) years.
   D.   If the fair market value of any housing assistance grant or the total
amount of affordable housing funds is greater than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00), then the affordability period shall be not less than twenty (20)
years.
AFFORDABLE: Consistent with minimum rent and/or income limitations set forth in
the MFA Act and in guidelines established by MFA.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Residential housing primarily for persons or households of
low or moderate income.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDS: Any or all funds awarded or to be awarded, loaned or
otherwise distributed under the Act.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN or PLAN: A plan pursuant to detailed research and
analysis of the community and housing profile, including a review of land use
and policy regarding land use, which produces a housing needs assessment for
low- and moderate-income households in that locality.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM or PROGRAM: Any programs the Village establishes
pursuant to the Act.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT or PROJECT: Any work or undertaking, whether new
construction, acquisition of existing Residential Housing, remodeling,
improvement, rehabilitation or conversion, which may be developed in one or
more phases, as approved by the Village and/or the MFA for the primary purposes
as allowed by the Act.
APPLICANT: An individual, a governmental housing agency, regional housing
authority, a for-profit organization, including a corporation, limited
liability company; partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or association or a
non-profit organization meeting the appropriate criteria set by the Village
and/or the MFA.
APPLICATION: An application to participate in one or more Affordable Housing
Projects or Programs under the Act submitted by an Applicant to the Village.
BUILDER: An individual or entity licensed as a general contractor to construct
Residential Housing in the State that satisfies the requirements of a
Qualifying Grantee and has been approved by the Village and/or the MFA to
participate in an Affordable Housing Program. The term “Builder” shall also
include an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements of a Qualifying
Grantee and has been approved by the Village and/or the MFA to participate in
an Affordable Housing Program, who is not licensed as a general contractor in
the State, provided such individual or entity contracts with a general
contractor licensed in the State to construct Residential Housing.
BUILDING: A structure capable of being renovated or converted into Affordable
Housing or a structure that is to be demolished and is located on land donated
for use in connection with an Affordable Housing Project.
CONGREGATE HOUSING FACILITY: Residential Housing designed for occupancy by more
than four Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income living independently of each
other. The facility may contain group dining, recreational, health care or
other communal living facilities and each unit in a Congregate Housing Facility
shall contain at least its own living, sleeping, and bathing facilities.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT: The United States of America and any agency or
instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United States of America.
HOUSEHOLD: One (1) or more persons occupying a housing unit.
HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANT: The donation, provision or payment by the Village of:
   A.   Land upon which affordable housing will be constructed; or
   B.   An existing Building that will be renovated, converted or demolished
and reconstructed as Affordable Housing; or
   C.   The costs acquisition, development, construction, financing, and
operating or owning affordable housing; or
   D.   The costs of financing or infrastructure necessary to support
Affordable Housing.
HUD: The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure Improvements and Infrastructure Purposes.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Sanitary sewage systems, including collection, transport, storage,
treatment, dispersal, effluent use and discharge;
   B.   Drainage and flood control systems, including collection, transport,
diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use and discharge;
   C.   Water systems for domestic purposes, including production, collection,
storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection and dispersal;
   D.   Areas for motor vehicle use for road access, ingress, egress and
parking;
   E.   Trails and areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle or other non-motor
vehicle use for access, ingress, egress and parking;
   F.   Parks, recreational facilities and open space areas for the use of
residents for entertainment, assembly and recreation;
   G.   Landscaping, including earthworks, structures, plants, trees and
related water delivery systems;
   H.   Electrical transmission and distribution facilities;
   I.   Natural gas distribution facilities;
   J.   Lighting systems;
   K.   Cable or other telecommunications lines and related equipment;
   L.   Traffic control systems and devices, including signals, controls,
markings and signs;
   M.   Inspection, construction management and related costs in connection
with the furnishing of the items listed in this subsection; and
   N.   Heating, air conditioning and weatherization facilities, systems or
services, and energy efficiency improvements that are affixed to real property.
INFRASTRUCTURE PURPOSE:
   A.   Planning, design, engineering, construction, acquisition or
installation of Infrastructure, including the costs of applications, impact
fees and other fees, permits and approvals related to the construction,
acquisition or installation of the Infrastructure, provided the Village may
determine it appropriate to reduce or waive building permit fees, sewer and
water hook-up fees and other fees with respect to an Affordable Housing Project
for which Affordable Housing Funds and/or Housing Assistance Grants are
awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under the Act;
   B.   Acquiring, converting, renovating or improving existing facilities for
Infrastructure, including facilities owned, leased or installed by the owner;
   C.   Acquiring interests in real property or water rights for
infrastructure, including interests of the owner; and
   D.   Incurring expenses incident to and reasonably necessary to carry out
the purposes specified in this subsection.
MFA: The New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority.
MFA ACT: The Mortgage Finance Authority Act, enacted as Chapter 303 of the Laws
of 1975 of the State of New Mexico, as amended (being Sections 58-18-1 through
58-18-27, inclusive, N.M.S.A (1978), as amended).
MORTGAGE: A mortgage, mortgage deed, deed of trust or other instrument creating
a lien, subject only to title exceptions as may be acceptable to the Village
and/or the MFA, on a fee interest in real property located within the State or
on a leasehold interest that has a remaining term at the time of computation
that exceeds or is renewable at the option of the lessee until after the
maturity day of the Mortgage Loan.
MORTGAGE LENDER: Any bank or trust company, mortgage company, mortgage banker,
national banking association, savings bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, building and loan association and any other lending institution;
provided that the mortgage lender maintains an office in the State, is
authorized to make mortgage loans in the State and is approved by the Village
and/or the MFA and either the Federal Housing Authority, Veterans' Affairs,
Federal National Mortgage Association (now known as Fannie Mae), or Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (now known as Freddie Mac).
MORTGAGE LOAN: A financial obligation secured by a Mortgage, including a
Mortgage Loan for a Project.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROGRAM: A program involving a Congregate Housing
Facility, a Multiple Family Housing Project or a Transitional Housing Facility.
MULTIPLE FAMILY HOUSING PROJECT: Residential Housing that is designed for
occupancy by more than four persons or families living independently of each
other or living in a Congregate Housing Facility, at least sixty percent (60%)
of whom are Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income, including without limitation
Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income who are elderly and handicapped as
determined by the Village and/or the MFA, provided that the percentage of low-
income persons and families shall be at least the minimum, if any, required by
Federal tax law.
ORDINANCE: Ordinance 2024-05 as passed on December 24, 2024.
PERSONS OF LOW- OR MODERATE-INCOME: Persons and families who are determined to
lack sufficient income to pay enough to cause private enterprise to build an
adequate supply of decent, safe and sanitary residential housing in the Village
and whose incomes are below the income levels established by the MFA and the
Plan to be in need of the assistance made available by the Act, taking into
consideration, without limitation, such factors as defined under the Act. For
purposes of this definition, the word “families” shall mean a group of persons
consisting of, but not limited to, the head of a household; his or her spouse,
if any; and children, if any, who are allowable as personal exemptions for
Federal income tax purposes. In accordance with the Plan, persons of low- and
moderate-income who are eligible for assistance in accordance with the plan are
as follows:
   A.   Persons of low-income shall mean persons in households with annual
gross incomes below eighty percent (80%) of Area Median Income for Village as
approved and published each year by MFA and verified by the Village.
   B.   Persons of Moderate Income shall mean persons in households with annual
gross incomes between eighty percent (80%) and one hundred and twenty percent
(120%) of Area Median Income for Village as approved and published each year by
MFA and verified by the Village.
   C.   For purposes of this definition, “annual gross income” shall mean the
annual anticipated income from assets, regular cash or noncash contributions,
and any other resources and benefits determined to be income by HUD, as defined
in 24 CFR Section 5.609.
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES: Policies and Procedures of the MFA, including but not
limited to, Mortgage Loan purchasing, selling, servicing and reservation
procedures, which the MFA may update and revise from time to time as the MFA
deems appropriate.
PUBLIC SERVICE AGENCIES: Shall include, but are not limited to, any entities
that support Affordable Housing and which believe that the program or project
proposed by the Applicant is worthy and advisable, but which are not involved,
either directly or indirectly, in the Affordable Housing Program or Project for
which the Applicant is applying.
QUALIFYING GRANTEE:
   A.   An individual who is qualified to receive assistance pursuant to the
Act and is approved by the Village; and
   B.   A governmental housing agency, regional housing authority, corporation,
a limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate, association
or a non-profit organization that:
      1.   Is organized under State or local laws and can provide proof of such
organization;
      2.   If a non-profit organization, has no part of its net earnings
inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; and
      3.   Is approved by the Village.
RECERTIFICATION: The recertification of Applicants and/or Qualifying Grantees
participating in any Affordable Housing Programs or in any programs under the
Act as determined necessary from time to time by the Village and/or the MFA.
REHABILITATION: The substantial renovation or reconstruction of an existing
single-family residence or a Multi-Family Housing Project, which complies with
requirements established by the MFA. Rehabilitation shall not include routine
or ordinary repairs, improvements or maintenance, such as interior decorating,
remodeling or exterior painting, except in conjunction with other substantial
renovation or reconstruction.
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING: Any Building, structure or portion thereof that is
primarily occupied, or designed or intended primarily for occupancy, as a
residence by one or more Households and any real property that is offered for
sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of such a building,
structure or portion thereof. “Residential Housing” includes congregate
housing, manufactured homes and housing intended to provide or providing
transitional or temporary housing for homeless persons.
RESIDENTIAL USE: That the structure or the portion of the structure to benefit
from the Affordable Housing Funds or Housing Assistance Grant is designed
primarily for use as the principal residence of the occupant or occupants and
shall exclude vacation or recreational homes.
RFP: Any request for proposals made by the Village.
RULES: The New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority Affordable Housing Rules
adopted pursuant to Section 6-27-8(B) NMSA 1978.
STATE: The State of New Mexico.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: Residential housing that is designed for
temporary or transitional occupancy by Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income, or
with special needs.
VILLAGE: The Village of Angel Fire, New Mexico, a unit of local government
under the Constitution and laws of the State of New Mexico. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-
24-2024)
11-1-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements shall apply to all Housing Assistance Grants and/or
Affordable Housing Funds awarded, loaned or otherwise distributed by the
Village under the Act to a Qualifying Grantee.
   A.   Request for Proposals. The Village, in its discretion, may issue one or
more RFPs to solicit applications from Applicants or shall otherwise identify a
Qualifying Grantee for the use of any Affordable Housing Funds or Housing
Assistance Grants to be awarded, loaned, donated or otherwise distributed under
the Act.
   B.   Applicant Eligibility. The following Applicants are eligible under the
Act to apply for Affordable Housing Funds or a Housing Assistance Grant to
provide housing or related services to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income in
the community:
      1.   All individuals who are qualified to receive assistance pursuant to
the Act, the Rules, and This chapter that are approved by the Village;
      2.   All regional housing authorities and any governmental housing
agencies;
      3.   All for-profit organizations, including any corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, joint venture, syndicate or association;
      4.   All non-profit organizations meeting the following requirements:
         a.   A primary mission of the non-profit organization must be to
provide housing or housing-related services to Persons of Low- or Moderate-
Income;
         b.   The non-profit organization must have received its 501(c)(3)
designation prior to submitting an application;
         c.   Have no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any
member, founder, contributor, or individual;
      5.   All non-individual Applicants must:
         a.   Be organized under State or local laws and can provide proof of
such organization and be approved by the Village;
         b.   Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or has designated an
entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles;
         c.   Have among its purposes significant activities related to
providing housing or services to Persons or Households of Low or Moderate
Income; and
         d.   Have no significant outstanding or unresolved monitoring findings
from the Village, the MFA, or its most recent independent financial audit, or
if it has any such findings, it has a certified letter from the Village, the
MFA, or auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved.
   C.   Applications.
      1.   Process for Applying. Applicants wishing to apply for a Housing
Assistance Grant, including the use of any Affordable Housing Funds, or to
participate in any Affordable Housing Program are required to submit to the
Village the following (as applicable):
         a.   One original Application together with all required schedules,
documents, or such other information which may be required by the Village or in
any RFP which may have been issued by the Village;
         b.   A proposal describing the nature and scope of the Affordable
Housing Project proposed by the Applicant and for which the Applicant is
applying for funds or a grant under the Act, and which documents the need for
the requested funds or grant, describes the type and/or amount of assistance
which the Applicant proposes to provide to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income
and documents the consistency of the proposal with the Village's Affordable
Housing Plan;
         c.   Executive summary and project narrative(s) that address the
evaluation criteria set forth in any RFP issued by the Village for the
Affordable Housing Funds or the Housing Assistance Grant for which the
Applicant is applying;
         d.   A proposed budget for the Affordable Housing Project for which
the Applicant is applying for Affordable Housing Funds or for a Housing
Assistance Grant;
         e.   Current independent financial audit;
         f.   If the Applicant is a non-profit organization:
            (1)   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status;
            (2)   Documentation that confirms that no part of its net earnings
inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual;
         g.   If an Applicant is a legal entity, including a non-profit
organization:
            (1)   A current annual budget for the Applicant, including all
sources and uses of funds not just those related to relevant programs and/or a
current annual budget only for the program for which the Applicant is applying
for a Housing Assistance Grant, or as otherwise may be required by the Village
and/or the MFA in its discretion;
            (2)   An approved mission statement that the Applicant has among
its purposes significant activities related to providing housing or housing
related services to Persons or Households of Low or Moderate Income;
            (3)   A list of members of the Applicant's current board of
directors or other governing body, including designated homeless participation,
where required by the Village;
            (4)   Evidence (or a certification as may be allowed by the
Village) that the Applicant has a functioning accounting system that is
operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or has a
designated entity that will maintain such an accounting system consistent with
generally accepted accounting principles;
            (5)   Evidence that the Applicant has no significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from the Village, the MFA, or its most recent
independent financial audit; or if it has any significant outstanding or
unresolved monitoring findings from the Village, the MFA or its most recent
independent financial audit, it has a certified letter from the Village, the
MFA or the auditor stating that the findings are in the process of being
resolved;
            (6)   An organizational chart, including job titles and
qualifications for the Applicant's employees or as otherwise may be required by
the Village and/or the MFA in its discretion. Job descriptions may be submitted
as appropriate;
            (7)   Documentation that the Applicant is duly organized under
State or local law and certification that the Applicant is in good standing
with any State authorities, including the Public Regulation Commission and the
Secretary of State;
            (8)   Information as may be required by the Village in order for it
to determine the financial and management stability of the Applicant;
            (9)   Information as may be required by the Village in order for it
to determine the demonstrated commitment of the Applicant to the community;
            (10)   A completed cost-benefit analysis of the Affordable Housing
Project proposed by the Applicant. Any cost-benefit analysis must include
documentation that clearly evidences that there is a need for the Housing
Assistance Grant being requested from the Village, that there is or will be a
direct benefit from the project proposed by the Applicant to the community and/
or to the purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the
provisions of the Act, and that the Affordable Housing Project will meet the
needs and affordability criteria defined in the Village 's Affordable Housing
Plan;
            (11)   Information supporting the benefits to the community of the
Affordable Housing Project proposed by the Applicant;
            (12)   Proof of substantive or matching funds or contributions and/
or in-kind donations to the proposed Affordable Housing Project in connection
with the Application for funds under the Act. Nothing contained herein shall
prevent or preclude an Applicant from matching or using local, private, or
federal funds in connection with a specific Housing Assistance Grant or a grant
of Affordable Housing Funds under the Act;
            (13)   Any certifications or other proof which the Village may
require in order for the Village to confirm that the Applicant is in compliance
with all applicable federal, State and local laws, rules and ordinances;
            (14)   A verification signed by the Applicant before a notary
public that the information provided, upon penalty of perjury, is true and
correct to the best of the Applicant's information, knowledge and belief;
            (15)   Certifications as may be required by the Village and signed
by chief executive officer, board president, or another authorized official of
the Applicant;
            (16)   Applicant shall submit adequate information, as required by
the Village and/or MFA, of the Affordable Housing Project proposed by the
Applicant. The information provided must clearly evidence the need for the
subsidy, that the value of the housing assistance grant reduces the housing
costs to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income, and that there will be a direct
benefit from the project proposed by the Applicant to the community and/or to
the purported beneficiaries of the project, consistent with the provisions of
the Act.
      2.   Additional Requirements for Multi-Family Housing Projects Applicants
who are submitting Applications in connection with a Multi-Family Housing
Program. The Applicant must also submit to the Village following additional
information:
         a.   A verified certificate that, among other things:
            (1)   Identifies every Multi-Family Housing Program, including
every assisted or insured project of HUD, RHS, FHA and any other state or local
government housing finance agency in which such Applicant has been or is a
principal;
            (2)   States that, except as shown on such certificate:
               (a)   No mortgage on a project listed on such certificate has
ever been in default, assigned to the Federal Government or foreclosed, nor has
any mortgage relief by the mortgagee been given;
               (b)   There has not been a suspension or termination of payments
under any HUD assistance contract in which the Applicant has had a legal or
beneficial interest;
               (c)   Such Applicant has not been suspended, debarred or
otherwise restricted by any department or agency of the Federal Government or
any state government from doing business with such department or agency because
of misconduct or alleged misconduct; and
               (d)   The Applicant has not defaulted on an obligation covered
by a surety or performance bond.
               If such Applicant cannot certify to each of the above, such
Applicant shall submit a signed statement to explain the facts and
circumstances that such Applicant believes will explain the lack of
certification. The Village may then determine if such Applicant is or is not
qualified.
         b.   The experience of the Applicant in developing, financing and
managing Multiple-Family Housing Projects; and
         c.   Whether the Applicant has been found by the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or the New Mexico Human Rights Commission to
be in noncompliance with any applicable civil rights laws.
      3.   Additional Requirements for Mortgage Lenders. If the Applicant is a
Mortgage lender, the Village shall consider, among other things:
         a.   The financial condition of the Applicant;
         b.   The terms and conditions of any loans to be made;
         c.   The aggregate principal balances of any loans to be made to each
Applicant compared with the aggregate principal balances of the loans to be
made to all other Applicants;
         d.   The Village's assessment of the ability of the Applicant or its
designated servicer to act as originator and servicer of Mortgage Loans for any
Multi-Family Housing Programs or other programs to be financed; and
         e.   Previous participation by the Applicant in the MFA's programs and
HUD, Federal Housing Authority or Rural Housing Service programs.
      4.   Submission Procedure.
         a.   Time, Place and Method of Submission Delivery.
            (1)   If the Village has issued an RFP, all Applications must be
received by the Village no later than the deadline set forth in the RFP;
otherwise, all Applications must be received by the Village by the deadline the
Village has established in connection with the respective award or grant. So
that any Qualifying Grantees may be selected prior to January of the year in
which any Housing Assistance Grant would be made, the Village shall issue any
RFP's, solicit any Applications, or otherwise identify any Qualifying Grantees
no later than October 15 of any year in order to allow sufficient time for
prospective applicants to respond to any such RFP, solicitation, or otherwise,
and further to allow the MFA not less than forty-five (45) days in which to
review any such Applications or otherwise determine or confirm that an
Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee under the Act and consistent with the Rules.
            (2)   Applications shall be submitted by Applicants to the Village
in the form required by the Village and shall contain all information which is
required by This chapter and any RFP which may have been issued.
         b.   Additional Factors. The Application procedures shall take into
consideration:
            (1)   Timely completion and submission to the Village of an
Application or other appropriate response to any solicitation by the Village;
            (2)   Timely submission of all other information and documentation
related to the program required by the Village as set forth in This chapter or
as set forth in the Rules;
            (3)   Timely payment of any fees required to be paid to the Village
at the time of submission of the Application; and
            (4)   Compliance with program eligibility requirements as set forth
in the Act, the Rules and This chapter.
         c.   Submission Format.
            (1)   Village forms or MFA forms (if available) must be used when
provided and no substitutions will be accepted; however, attachments may be
provided as necessary.
            (2)   An Applicant's failure to provide or complete any element of
an application, including all requirements of the Village or as may be listed
on any RFP, may result in the rejection of the Application prior to review.
            (3)   Illegible information, information inconsistent with other
information provided in the application, and/or incomplete forms will be
treated as missing information and evaluated accordingly.
            (4)   Village and the MFA reserve the right to request further
information from any Applicant so long as the request is done fairly and does
not provide any Applicant an undue advantage over another Applicant.
            (5)   The Village in its discretion may cancel any RFP or reject
any or all proposals in whole or part submitted by any Applicant.
            (6)   Neither the Village nor the MFA shall be responsible for any
expenses incurred by an Applicant in preparing and submitting an Application.
However, the Village or the MFA, as applicable, may establish and collect fees
from Applicants who file Applications. Notice that fees will be charged and the
amount of any such fees shall be included by the Village or the MFA, as
applicable, in any RFP or otherwise shall be advertised as part of the
Application solicitation process.
      5.   Review by the Village. On receipt of an Application, the Village
shall:
         a.   Determine whether the Application submitted by the Applicant is
complete and responsive;
         b.   Determine whether the Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee as
defined herein and in the Act;
         c.   Review and analyze whether the Applicant has shown a demonstrated
need for activities to promote and provide affordable housing and related
services to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income and that the proposal is
consistent with the Village's adopted Affordable Housing Plan;
         d.   Determine whether the Applicant has demonstrated experience
related to providing housing or services to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income;
as well as experience and/or the capacity of the Applicant to administer the
Affordable Housing Program or Project for which the Applicant has applied;
         e.   Determine whether the Applicant's proposal provides a plan for
coordinating with other service providers in the community; whether the
Applicant's plan addresses how Persons of Low-Income or Moderate-Income in need
of housing and/or housing-related supportive services can receive supportive
services and referrals to federal, State and local resources; and, whether the
Applicant's plan addresses outreach efforts to reach the population to be
served as identified by the Village in any RFP, in the Affordable Housing Plan
or otherwise;
         f.   Determine whether the Applicant has support from Public Service
Agencies, or such other support as may be required by the Village and/or the
MFA in its discretion, for its proposed services in the community;
         g.   Ascertain the amount of any matching funds or in-kind services
specific to the program that may be utilized by the Applicant in connection
with the program;
         h.   Ascertain whether any local, private, or federal funds will be
used by the Applicant in connection with the specific grant for which the
Applicant is applying;
         i.   Ascertain whether the Applicant has and can demonstrate the
capability to manage the implementation of the Program for which the Applicant
is applying;
         j.   If Applicant is a prior recipient of either a Housing Assistance
Grant, Affordable Housing Funds and/or other Program funds, confirm that the
Applicant had no outstanding findings or matters of non-compliance with program
requirements from the Village or the MFA, as applicable or if it has any such
findings, it has a certified letter from the Village, the MFA, or auditor
stating that the findings are in the process of being resolved;
         k.   If Applicant is a prior recipient of either a Housing Assistance
Grant, Affordable Housing Funds and/or other Program funds, confirm that the
Applicant reasonably committed and expended the funds under the prior Program
and/or met anticipated production levels as set forth in any contract with the
Village or the MFA, as applicable, for those prior Program funds;
         l.   Evaluate the Applicant's proposal in part based upon the
Applicant's current financial audit;
         m.   Evaluate the Applicant's proposed budget for the Project for
which the Applicant is applying for Affordable Housing Funds or a Housing
Assistance Grant which proposed budget must be approved by the Village before
the Applicant can be approved as a Qualifying Grantee and any expenditure of
grant funds under the Act or granted property is transferred to the Applicant;
         n.   On receipt of an Application from a Builder, the Village will
analyze the Builder's ability to construct and sell sufficient Residential
Housing units to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income within the time or times as
may be required by the Village.
         o.   Consider other factors it deems appropriate to ensure a
reasonable geographic allocation for all Affordable Housing Programs.
         p.   Certification by the Village to the MFA. The Village shall
certify an Application to the MFA in writing upon:
            (1)   Completion of its review of the Application;
            (2)   Determination that the Application is complete;
            (3)   Determination that the requirements of the Act, the Rules and
This chapter have been satisfied; and
            (4)   Determination that the Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee.
      6.   Review by the MFA. The MFA upon its receipt of the certification
from the Village may, in its discretion, review the Application and any of the
materials submitted by the Applicant to the Village. The MFA may also request
any additional information from the Applicant, which it may require in order to
determine whether the Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee under the Act and the
Application is complete. The MFA will then notify the Village of its
determination of whether or not the Application is complete and that the
requirements of the Act and the Rules have been satisfied and the Applicant is
a Qualifying Grantee. Unless the period is extended for good cause shown, the
MFA shall act on an Application within forty-five (45) days of its receipt of
any Application, which the MFA deems to be complete, and, if not acted upon,
the Application shall be deemed to be approved.
      7.   Notification of Acceptance. The Village, upon completion of its
review of the Application and an evaluation of the criteria for approval of the
Application as set forth in the This chapter and in any RFP issued by the
Village and upon its determination that the Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee,
and upon its receipt of notification from the MFA that it agrees that the
Application is complete and that the Act and Rules have been satisfied and the
Applicant is a Qualifying Grantee, by written notice, shall notify each
Applicant which has submitted an Application of the approval or disapproval of
its Application. Upon approval of its Application, the Applicant shall be
considered approved to participate in the Affordable Housing Program. The
Village's and the MFA's determination of any Application shall be conclusive.
   D.   Additional Requirements. Upon acceptance, the following additional
requirements shall apply to any Applicant who is a Qualifying Grantee:
      1.   Contractual Requirements. The Qualifying Grantee shall enter into
one or more contracts with the Village, which contract(s) shall be consistent
with the Act and subject to the review of the MFA, in its discretion, and which
contract(s) shall include remedies and default provisions in the event of the
unsatisfactory performance by the Qualifying Grantee.
      2.   Security Provisions; Collateral Requirements. In accordance with the
Act, the Rules and This chapter, the Village shall require the Qualifying
Grantee to execute documents, which will provide adequate security against the
loss of public funds or property in the event the Qualifying Grantee abandons
or fails to complete the Affordable Housing Project, and which shall further
provide, as may be permitted by law, for the recovery of any attorneys' fees
and costs which the Village and/or the MFA may incur in enforcing the
provisions of This chapter, the Rules, the Act and/or any agreement entered
into by the Village and the Qualifying Grantee, and which documents may
include, but are not limited to the following: note, mortgage, loan agreement,
land use restriction agreement, restrictive covenant agreements and/or any
other agreement which the Village may require in order to allow for any funds
which the Qualifying Grantee may receive under a Housing Assistance Grant or
Affordable Housing Funds to be adequately secured and to allow the Village and
the MFA to ensure that such funds shall be used by the Qualifying Grantee in
accordance with the Act, the Rules and This chapter.
      3.   Performance Schedule and Criteria. The Qualifying Grantee shall be
required to abide by a reasonable performance schedule and performance criteria
that the Village, in its discretion, may establish.
      4.   Examination of Books and Records. The Qualifying Grantee shall
submit to and the Village shall cause to be made such examinations of the books
and records of each Qualifying Grantee as the Village and/or the MFA deems
necessary or appropriate to determine the Qualifying Grantee's compliance with
the terms of the Act, the Rules, This chapter and any contracts between the
Qualifying Grantee and the Village. The Village and/or the MFA may require each
Qualifying Grantee to pay the costs of any such examination
      5.   Infrastructure Cost Reimbursement Contracts.
         a.   Cost Reimbursements. Payment to a Qualifying Grantee under cost
reimbursable contract provisions shall be made upon the Village's receipt from
the Qualifying Grantee of certified and documented invoices for actual
expenditures allowable under the terms of any agreement between the Qualifying
Grantee and the Village.
         b.   Cost Reimbursements for Units of Service. Payment under any unit
cost contract provisions shall be made upon the Village's receipt from the
Qualifying Grantee of a certified and documented invoice showing the number of
units of service provided during the billing period.
         c.   Rate at which Costs Incurred. Under unit cost or cost
reimbursable contracts, it is anticipated that costs will be incurred by the
Qualifying Grantee at an approximate level rate during the term of any
agreement between the Qualifying Grantee and the Village. If the Village
determines that the Qualifying Grantee is underspending or overspending, then
the Village may reduce the budget and/or exercise such other budgetary fiscal
controls it deems appropriate.
         d.   Invoices. Qualifying Grantees shall not submit invoices more than
once a month, unless written approval is obtained in advance from the Village.
Failure to submit invoices within twenty (20) calendar days of the close of the
month for which payment is sought may result in the non-availability of funds
for reimbursement.
         e.   No Dual Application of Costs. The Qualifying Grantee shall
certify that any direct or indirect costs claimed by the Qualifying Grantee
will not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other program, project,
contract, or activity operated by the Qualifying Grantee and which has not been
approved by the Village in advance, in writing.
         f.   Prohibition of Substitution of Funds. Any Affordable Housing
Funds or other amounts received by Qualifying Grantee may not be used by
Qualifying Grantee to replace other amounts made available or designated by the
State or local governments through appropriations for use for the purposes of
the Act.
         g.   Cost Allocation. The Qualifying Grantee shall clearly identify
and distribute all costs incurred pertaining to the Affordable Housing Project
by a methodology and cost allocation plan at times and in a manner prescribed
by, or acceptable to the Village.
         h.   Additional Information. Qualifying Grantees shall provide the
Village with any and all information which the Village may reasonably require
in order for it to confirm that the Qualifying Grantees continue to satisfy the
requirements of the Act, the Rules and This chapter throughout the term of any
contract and/or any Affordability Period or otherwise as may be required by the
Village or the MFA in its discretion. At a minimum, on an annual basis, the
Village shall certify to the MFA in writing that to the best of its knowledge
the Qualifying Grantee is in compliance with applicable provisions of the Act,
the Rules and This chapter.
   E.   Affordable Housing Requirements. All Affordable Housing Funds or
Housing Assistance Grants awarded under the Act are to be used by Qualifying
Grantees for the benefit of Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income subject to the
provisions of the Act and with particular regard to their housing related
needs.
      1.   Single-Family Property.
         a.   Qualifying Grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any
single-family property which has been acquired, rehabilitated, weatherized,
converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which property has otherwise
benefitted from Affordable Housing Funds, including but not limited to any
loans which have been repaid with Affordable Housing Funds and which loans
previously were secured by such properties, as Affordable Housing for so long
as any or all of the Affordable Housing Funds which have been awarded, loaned,
or otherwise conveyed to the Qualifying Grantee are unpaid and outstanding or
the Affordability Period, whichever is longer.
         b.   If any single-family properties are to be rehabilitated,
weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed or otherwise are to
benefit from Affordable Housing Funds, and if the Qualifying Grantee intends to
rent the single-family property out, those single-family properties shall be
leased to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income at the time of any such award.
Grantees also shall agree that the Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income, who are
tenants of those apartments, shall be allowed to remain tenants for so long as
there are no uncured defaults by those tenants under their respective leases
which must be compliant to the New Mexico Uniform Owner-Resident Relations Act
(NMSA 1978 Sections 47-8-1 through 47-8-52) and provided that there is no just
cause (as outlined in Section 47-8-33 NMSA 1978) for the landlord to terminate
any lease agreement with those tenants.
      2.   Multi-Family Property.
         a.   Single Apartment within a Multi-Family Property. Qualifying
Grantees shall agree that, if any single apartments are to be rehabilitated,
weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed or otherwise are to
benefit from Affordable Housing Funds, those apartments shall be leased to
Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income at the time of any such award. Qualifying
Grantees, who are the landlords and/or owners of such properties, shall further
agree to contribute at least sixty percent (60%) of the cost of the
rehabilitation, weatherization, conversion, lease, repair, and/or construction.
Qualifying Grantees also shall agree that the Persons of Low- or Moderate-
Income, who are tenants of those apartments, shall be allowed to remain tenants
for so long as there are no uncured defaults by those tenants under their
respective leases–which must be compliant to the New Mexico Uniform Owner-
Resident Relations Act (NMSA 1978 Sections 47-8-1 through 47-8-52) and provided
that there is no just cause (as outlined in Section 47-8-33 NMSA 1978) for the
landlord to terminate any lease agreement with those tenants.
         b.   Multiple Apartments. Qualifying Grantees shall agree that, if
multiple apartments or an entire multi-family property are to be acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed or
otherwise are to benefit from Affordable Housing Funds, including but not
limited to any loans which have been repaid with Affordable Housing Funds and
which loans previously were secured by such properties, they shall maintain not
less than sixty percent (60%) of the housing units as Affordable Housing for so
long as any or all of the Affordable Housing Funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the Qualifying Grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the Affordability Period, whichever is longer.
      3.   Non-Residential Property. Qualifying Grantees shall agree that they
shall maintain any non-residential property which has been acquired,
rehabilitated, weatherized, converted, leased, repaired, constructed, or which
property has otherwise benefitted from Affordable Housing Funds, including but
not limited to any loans which have been repaid with Affordable Housing Funds
and which loans previously were secured by such properties, as a facility which
provides housing related-services to Persons of Low- or Moderate-Income for so
long as any or all of the Affordable Housing Funds which have been awarded,
loaned, or otherwise conveyed to the Qualifying Grantee are unpaid and
outstanding or the Affordability Period, whichever is longer.
      4.   Housing Assistance Grant Affordability Requirements. Qualifying
Grantees shall agree that they shall maintain any land or buildings received as
a Housing Assistance Grant either as either single-family or multi-family
Affordable Housing in accordance with Sections D.5.a. and b. of This chapter or
as a facility which provides housing related-services to Persons of Low- or
Moderate-Income in accordance with Section D.5.c. of This chapter (as
applicable) for the duration of the Affordability Period. Qualifying Grantees
shall agree that they shall maintain any land or buildings for which they have
received the costs of Infrastructure as a Housing Assistance Grant either as
either single-family or multi-family Affordable Housing or as a facility which
provides housing related-services to Persons of low- or Moderate-Income (as
applicable) for the duration of the Affordability Period. In calculating the
Affordability Period for Housing Assistance Grants of either land or buildings,
the fair market value of the land or buildings or the costs of Infrastructure
at the time of the donation by the Village shall apply.
      5.   Affordability Period. The Village, in its discretion, may increase
the Affordability Period in any contract, note, mortgage, loan agreement, land
use restriction agreement, restrictive covenant agreements and/or any other
agreement which the Village may enter into with any Qualifying Grantee or
beneficiary of the Affordable Housing Funds or of the Housing Assistance Grant.
(See definition of Affordability Period in Section C.3. of this chapter.)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the discretion of the MFA, weatherization
funds conveyed from the State to the MFA and/or any other similar conveyances
where an Affordability Period is not practical, shall not be subject to the
Affordability Period requirements of this Section D.5.; but nevertheless, any
such conveyances may be subject to recapture on some pro-rated basis as
determined by the Village and/or the MFA.
   F.   Consent to Jurisdiction. Each Qualifying Grantee shall consent to the
jurisdiction of the courts of the State over any proceeding to enforce
compliance with the terms of the Act, the Rules and This chapter and any
agreement between the Qualifying Grantee and the Village and/or the MFA.
   G.   Recertification Procedures.
      1.   The Qualifying Grantee must meet the requirements of the Act, the
Rules and This chapter both at the time of any award and throughout the term of
any grant and contract related thereto.
      2.   The Village may establish procedures for recertifying Qualifying
Grantees from time to time.
      3.   Qualifying Grantees that fail to satisfy the requirements for
Recertification shall cease to be eligible and shall be denied further
participation in Affordable Housing programs until the requirements of the
Village and the MFA are satisfied.
   H.   Compliance with the Law. Qualifying Grantee shall provide the Village
with any certifications or other proof that it may require in order for the
Village and the MFA to confirm that the Qualifying Grantee and the Qualifying
Grantee's proposed Project are in compliance with all applicable federal, State
and local laws, rules and ordinances. At a minimum, on an annual basis, the
Qualifying Grantee shall provide the Village with certifications and proof of
compliance, and the Village shall certify to the MFA in writing that the
Qualifying Grantee is still in compliance with the Act and the Rules.
   I.   Extension of Affordable Housing Programs. The MFA shall have the power
to create variations or extensions of affordable housing programs, or
additional programs that comply with the Act and the rules.
   J.   Village Grant Requirements.
      1.   The Village is authorized to make Housing Assistance Grants under
the Act. Upon determination that the Village will make a Housing Assistance
Grant, including the use of any Affordable Housing Funds, the Village shall
provide the MFA with the following:
         a.   Documentation that confirms that the Village has an existing
valid Affordable Housing Plan;
         b.   Documentation that confirms that the Village has an existing
valid Affordable Housing Ordinance which provides for the authorization of the
Housing Assistance Grant, including the use of any Affordable Housing Funds;
         c.   Written certification that the proposed grantee is in compliance
with Act and the Rules so that the MFA may confirm that the Application is
complete, and that the proposed grantee is a Qualifying Grantee under the Act
and the Rules.
      2.   Prior to the submission of the application and project authorization
to the Commission, the Commission must approve the budget submitted by the
Applicant.
      3.   An action authorizing the Village to make a Housing Assistance Grant
and/or distribute Affordable Housing Funds:
         a.   Must authorize the grant, including use of Affordable Housing
Funds, if any;
         b.   Must state the requirements and purpose of the grant;
         c.   Must authorize the transfer or disbursement to the Qualifying
Grantee only after a budget is submitted to and approved by the Commission;
         d.   Must comply with the Rules, as amended; and
         e.   May provide for matching or using local, private or federal funds
either through direct participation with a federal agency pursuant to federal
law or through indirect participation through the MFA.
      4.   The MFA shall act to approve the proposed Housing Assistance Grant
authorized by the Village within forty-five (45) days of its receipt of the
documentation required above in Section D.10.a., b. and c. of This chapter.
      5.   The Village, in its discretion, may also hold any award of
Affordable Housing Funds or any Housing Assistance Grant made by the Village in
suspense pending the issuance by the Village of any RFP or pending the award of
the Affordable Housing Funds or of the Housing Assistance Grant by the Village
to the Qualifying Grantee without the issuance of an RFP by the Village. Any
award of Affordable Housing Funds or a Housing Assistance Grant by the Village
shall subject the Qualifying Grantee of the award or grant to the oversight of
the Village and the MFA under This chapter and the Rules.
   K.   School District and Public Post-Secondary Educational Institution
Donations for Housing Projects. If a school district or a public post-secondary
education institution intends to transfer land to the Village to be further
granted to a Qualifying Grantee as part or all of an Affordable Housing
project, this transfer shall be subject to the limitations contained in the Act
that the school district and the Commission enter into a contract that provides
the school district with a negotiated number of affordable housing units that
will be reserved for employees of the school district. Any transfer of land by
a public post-secondary educational institution shall be subject to the
additional limitations contained in the Act that:
      1.   The property transferred shall be granted to a Qualifying Grantee by
the Village as part of a grant for an Affordable Housing project; and
      2.   The governing board of the public post-secondary educational
institution and the Commission enter into a contract that provides the public
post-secondary educational institution with Affordable Housing units.
      As used in this section, “public post-secondary educational institution”
means a state university or a public community college. The Village, in its
discretion, may also hold any Housing Assistance Grant made by any school
district or public post-secondary educational institution in suspense pending
the issuance by the Village of any RFP or pending the award of the Housing
Assistance Grant by the Village to the Qualifying Grantee without the issuance
of an RFP by the Village. Any award of a Housing Assistance Grant by a school
district or a public post-secondary educational institution shall subject the
Qualifying Grantee of the grant to the oversight of the Village and the MFA
under the Rules. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
11-1-4: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
The development, construction, occupancy and operation of an Affordable Housing
Program or an Affordable Housing Project financed or assisted under the Act
shall be undertaken in a manner consistent with principles of non-
discrimination and equal opportunity, and the Village shall require compliance
by all Qualifying Grantees with all applicable federal and State laws and
regulations relating to affirmative action, non-discrimination and equal
opportunity. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
11-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The Village shall administer any Affordable Housing programs in accordance with
provisions of the Act, the Rules, This chapter, any applicable state and
federal laws and regulations as each of which may be amended or supplemented
from time to time. The Village, in establishing, funding and administering the
Affordable Housing Programs and by making, executing, delivering and performing
any award, contract, grant or any other activity or transaction contemplated by
the Act, shall not violate any provision of law, rule or regulation or any
decree, writ, order, injunction, judgment, determination or award and will not
contravene the provisions of or otherwise cause a default under any of its
agreements, indentures, or other instruments to which it may be bound. Any
proposed amendment to This chapter shall be submitted to MFA for review prior
to adoption by the Commission. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
11-1-6: TERMINATION:
The Commission may repeal This chapter and terminate the Village's Affordable
Housing Program and any or all contracts undertaken in its authority.
Termination shall be by ordinance at a public hearing or in accordance with the
terms of the contract. If an ordinance or a contract is repealed or terminated,
all contract provisions of the contract regarding termination shall be
satisfied. (Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
11-1-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect thirty (30) days after it is
recorded with the Village Clerk in accordance with Section 4-37-9 NMSA, 1978.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-24-2024)
TITLE 12
SHORT TERM RENTAL
CHAPTER 1
SHORT TERM NIGHTLY RENTAL
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Short-Term Rental Permit And Application
12-1-5: Operational Requirements And Standard Conditions
12-1-6: Violations
12-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and cited as Short-Term Nightly Rental
Ordinance. (Ord. 2024-08, 12-24-2024)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
privately-owned residential dwellings as short-term rentals. (Ord. 2024-08, 12-
24-2024)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section:
APPLICANT:The Owner of the short-term rental unit or the Owner's authorized
agent or representative.
OCCUPANT: Any person who seeks to rent or who does rent a privately owned
residential unit for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
OWNER: The Owner of a short-term rental unit, or designated agent or
representative of the Owner, who is responsible for compliance with this
chapter with respect to the short-term rental unit, and who is legally
responsible for ensuring that all Occupants of the short-term rental unit and/
or their guests comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term rental unit.
PROPERTY: The legal lot of record on which a short-term rental is located.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT: A permit that allows the use of a privately owned
residential dwelling as a short-term rental unit pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and that incorporates any potential requirements required in §
3-3-1, Lodgers' Tax Ordinance of the Village code.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT: A privately owned residential dwelling, such as, but
not limited to, a single-family detached or multiple-family attached unit,
apartment, condominium, cooperative apartment, duplex, or any portion of such
dwelling rented for occupancy for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes for
any period less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
VENDOR: A person providing the short-term rental of a short-term rental unit or
the furnishing of lodging in the exercise of the taxable service of lodging, to
include the Owner as defined herein. (Ord. 2024-08, 12-24-2024)
12-1-4: SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT AND APPLICATION:
   A.   The Owner, agent or representative is required to obtain a short-term
rental permit for each short-term rental unit. An Owner's agent or
representative may complete and submit any application for a short-term rental
permit with Owner's approval. In addition, the Owner is required to obtain a
business registration from the Village (but only if the Owner, agent or
representative does not have a business registration applicable to the business
of providing lodging on the property), pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter and §§
3-1-1 et seq. respectively, before renting any privately-owned residential
dwelling to any Occupant for a period less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   B.   Permit fees shall be set by Village Council Resolution.
   C.   The Owner, agent or designated representative is required to pay:
      1.   All Lodgers' Tax for lodging revenues earned within the Village, at
a rate of five percent (5%) of gross taxable rent for lodging paid to vendor,
pursuant to the provisions of §§
3-3-1 et seq., of the Lodgers' Tax Ordinance. In addition, each vendor shall
make a report by the twenty-fifth day of each month on forms provided by the
Village Finance Director (or designee) of the receipts for lodging in the
preceding calendar month, and shall submit the proceeds of the Lodgers' Tax to
the Village and include sufficient information to enable the Village to audit
the report, and such report shall be verified on oath by the vendor in
accordance with §
3-3-7. Monthly reports shall include and attach reports from each rental
platform (e.g. VRBO and Airbnb) documenting fees collected and paid by the
rental platform to the Owner/vendor. Monthly reports may include reports
generated from property management software; and
      2.   All sports and recreation facility fees, at a rate of two and four
tenths percent (2.4%) of the gross revenue of the short-term rental unit,
pursuant to the provisions of §§
3-7-1 et seq. of the Village code. Any Owner, its agent or designated
representative, shall collect the fee on behalf of the Village and shall remit
the fees collected to the Village on or before the twenty fifth of each month
along with the Lodger's Tax pursuant to §
3-7-7 of the Village code and this chapter.
   D.   A short-term rental permit shall be required to be renewed on an annual
basis based on the anniversary of the issuance of the original permit. Approval
shall remain valid for one year unless there is a substantial change in the
short-term rentals Operational Requirements and Standard Conditions as listed
in §
12-1-5.
   E.   The Owner, agent or authorized representative must submit the following
information to the Village:
      1.   All application materials required by §
9-3-4 B.2; and
      2.   The site plan shall include the location and dimensions of all
required on-site parking spaces, as established in this chapter, at §
12-1-5 D.
      3.   Fire exit map clearly detailed on a floor plan of the short-term
rental unit, which map shall be visibly and conspicuously posted in at least
two (2) locations of the unit.
   F.   Variance fees shall be set by Village Council Resolution.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-24-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-13, 8-12-2025)
12-1-5: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARD CONDITIONS:
   A.   The Owner shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure
that the short-term rental unit is used in a manner that complies with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations and pertaining to the use and occupancy
of the subject short-term rental unit. It is recommended and Owners are
encouraged to procure supplemental insurance coverage for short-term rental
units.
   B.   1.   Village Council may consider a variance request to the maximum
occupancy for a short-term rental unit.
      2.   The Village Manager shall identify a designee to evaluate a variance
request and prepare a recommendation for Village Council consideration.
   C.   Appearance, Visibility or Location: A short-term rental shall not
change the residential character of the outside appearance of the residence,
either by use of colors, materials, lighting or any advertising mechanism.
   D.   On-Site Parking Required: All parking associated with short-term
rentals located in residentially or multi-family zoned lands shall be entirely
on-site, in a garage, carport or driveway, or otherwise arranged, dedicated
off-site parking. No parking shall be permitted in yards or any site not
designed or customarily used for parking. There is no on-street parking
allowed; any on-street parking is a violation of the Village's Uniform Traffic
Code Section 12-6-6.1 through 12-6-6.14 Off-site parking plans must be
submitted for Code Administrator approval.
   E.   Noise: Occupants of the short-term rental shall comply with the
standards and regulations of Title 5, Chapter 2B-3, Unreasonable Noise.
   F.   Fire Inspections: A fire code official or qualified inspection
official, as defined by the International Fire Code (IFC), must conduct an
inspection of the building at least once every two (2) years pursuant to the
IFC in existence at the time of the inspection applying standards applicable to
residential code and construction.
   G.   Occupant Notification: The Owner shall provide each Occupant of the
short-term rental with the following information prior to occupancy of the unit
and/or shall post such information in a prominent location within the unit:
      1.   Contact information for Owner or representative with twenty-four
(24)-hour availability;
      2.   The maximum number of Occupants as permitted pursuant to This
chapter, such maximum number of Occupants shall also be identified in any
advertisements or listings on rental platforms;
      3.   Location of trash disposal and regulations pertaining to disposal of
trash and recyclables within the Village; and
      4.   Notification that the Occupant or Owner may be cited or fined by the
Village in accordance with This chapter and/or Title 5, Chapter 2B-3,
Unreasonable Noise.
   H.   While a short-term rental is rented, the Owner, agent or representative
shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day for the purpose of responding
to complaints regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of Occupants of
the short-term rental unit or their guests.
   I.   The Owner shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure
that the Occupants and/or guests of the short-term rental unit do not create
unreasonable noise or disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct or violate any
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject short-term rental.
   J.   Prior to occupancy of a short-term rental unit, the Owner shall:
      1.   Obtain the name, address and email address of the Occupant, guest or
other responsible person renting the short-term rental unit; and
      2.   Require such person to sign a formal acknowledgement that they are
legally responsible for compliance by all Occupants and their guests of the
short-term rental unit with all applicable laws, rules and regulations
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental unit. This
information shall be maintained by the Owner for a period of three (3) years,
and be made readily available upon request by the Village.
   K.   Trash and refuse must not be stored within public view, but must be
deposited in receptacles at the designated area for Village trash and
recyclables. The Vendor must have posted in plain sight the directions to the
appropriate solid waste drop off location.
   L.   The Owner shall post the current short-term rental permit number in any
advertisement appearing in any newspaper, magazine brochure television, trade
paper, internet website or other rental platform site that promotes the
availability or existence of a short-term rental unit.
   M.   The Owner shall comply with all provisions of Chapter 3-1, Business
Registration.
   N.   The Owner shall comply with all provisions of Chapter 3-3, Lodgers'
Tax.
   O.   The Code Administrator, or designee, shall have the authority to impose
additional conditions on the use of any given short-term rental unit to ensure
that any potential secondary effects unique to the subject short-term rental
unit are avoided or adequately mitigated.
   P.   The standard conditions set forth herein may be modified by the Code
Administrator, or designee, upon request of the Owner based on site specific
circumstances. All requests must be in writing, submitted to the Village Code
Administrator and shall identify how the strict application of the standard
conditions creates an unreasonable hardship to the Owner of a property such
that, if the requirement is not modified, reasonable use of the property for a
short-term rental would not be allowed. Any hardships identified must relate to
physical constraints of the subject site and shall not be self-induced. Any
modifications of the standard conditions shall not further exacerbate an
already existing problem.
(Ord. 2024-08, 12-24-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-14, 8-12-2025)
12-1-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Additional Conditions: A violation of any provision of This chapter by
any of the Occupants, their guests or Owners shall authorize the Code
Administrator, or designee to impose additional conditions on the use of any
given short-term rental unit to ensure that any potential future violations are
avoided.
   B.   Permit Modification, Suspension and Revocation: A violation of any
provision of This chapter by the Occupants, their guests or Owners shall
constitute grounds for modification, suspension, and/or revocation of the
short-term rental permit and/or any affiliated licenses or permits pursuant to
the provisions set forth in herein.
      1.   Whenever any Owner fails to comply with any provision of This
chapter, the Code Administrator, or designee, after giving the Owner ten (10)
day's notice may modify, suspend or revoke the permit held by the Owner.
      2.   Notice of Violation: The Village may issue a notice of violation to
any Occupant, guest or Owner, pursuant to This chapter, if there is any
violation committed, caused or maintained by any of the parties above.
   C.   Infraction: The Village may issue a citation to any Occupant, guest,
Owner or operator pursuant to the provisions set forth in This chapter. (Ord.
2024-08, 12-24-2024)
